I ask the Minister for Works a question. By way of preface I refer to the fact that the Department of Works has erected a fine and striking building at Osaka, Japan, for Expo 70 and to the fact that the building must be dismantled and removed from the site at the conclusion of Expo. Will the Minister investigate whether it is practicable to bring the structure to Australian for re-erection and use here as a striking piece of architecture of wholly Australian origin? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. By way of preface I refer to the fact that for some months past references have appeared in the Press to what has been described as the unprecedented and unduly long adjournment of the sittings of this Parliament. Can the Minister indicate whether in fact this has been an unprecedented or unduly long adjournment, bearing in mind the history of sittings of this Parliament? 

 - Mr President, I move: 
That the following Address-in-Reply to the Speech of  His Excellency  the Governor-General be agreed to: 
May it Please Your Excellency: 
We, the Senate of the Commonwealth of Australia in Parliament assembled, desire to express our loyalty to our Most Gracious Sovereign, and to thank your  Excellency  for the Speech which you have been pleased to address to Parliament. 
It is an honour and a privilege to move this motion. It is a privilege which falls to only one supporter of the Government during each session and I am grateful to have the opportunity on this occasion. I believe it is a significant occasion. We are all taking part in a fine old tradition of Parliament; we are expressing our loyalty to our Queen and therefore to our country. 
That we shall shortly have the honour of a visit to this country and to this Parliament by our Queen is well known. But it makes all the more real the ceremony in which we participated yesterday. 
To the Governor-General, we are expressing our thanks. It was undoubtedly a most impressive Speech delivered on what is always a most impressive occasion. That the proceedings on the occasion of Speeches are televised and may therefore be seen by a substantial section of the community is, I believe, an excellent opportunity for all Australians to witness that which is both impressive and important to every one of them. I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and his Ministry on the very full programme foreshadowed by his Excellency's Speech. The Speech contained so many matters, all of great importance, that it is hard to choose those matters on which one wishes to speak. There were something over 60  -  approaching 70  -  separate matters dealt with in that Speech and no doubt there will be an opportunity for us to discuss and to debate those matters when the actual legislation relating to them is introduced. That being so, I shall select but a few aspects of the Speech. 
Whilst again expressing my enthusiasm for the exciting announcements made in the Governor-General's Speech - announcements which should ensure that we go into the seventies with a vigorous programme of national and social development -I shall select only a relatively small percentage of those items upon which to make some comment. The first matter upon which I wish to comment is the Industrial Research and Development Grants Act. I was pleased to see that the Speech referred to this matter. The Government, it is said, proposes to review the Act in order to prepare a comprehensive and integrated programme to foster Australian industrial creativity and efficiency. This is a most important matter to Australia. I think it is trite to say that we are now one of the great trading nations of the world. I understand that Australia rates thirteenth in the world as a trading nation. It is also trite to say that the world is ever-increasing in respect of the complexity of its technology. We have a situation where the development in industrial technology is vital to any country wishing to expand its share of international trade. 
We have a situation where more and more costly is the research and more and more costly is the machinery of industry. Australia must assist its industry to develop its technology and to retain the benefits of that development, lt was therefore pleasing to me to see this matter adverted to in the Government's programme. 
Another matter - a matter which concerns me a great deal - was something J read shortly before I heard and read  His  Excellency's Speech. That was the report which recently appeared in the Press of the judgment given in Sydney in what has become known as the Rheem case. In that case an American company brought an action to prevent an Australian company, Rheem Australia Pty Ltd, from continuing to manufacture a certain item. This item was a bung for a 44-gallon drum - a simple thing on the face of it. But the case became the longest and the costliest in Australian legal history. The cost was estimated at over $2m and the case took some 8 years to complete. The disturbing part about this matter was the comment made by the trial judge when he said: 
It was an attempt to eliminate a trade rival with which it could not successfully compete. 
He went on to say: 
That an innocent party should have to make such an effort and at such cost to defend itself must shake public confidence in the administration of law. 
Fortunately, the Australian company concerned in the case is one in which Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd is a very large shareholder and as a result the company was in a position to defend itself. But what of the prospects of smaller industries in Australia? What of the prospects of smaller industries to withstand the onslaught of foreign companies wishing to eliminate a competitor? Too often do we hear of American and other companies taking over Australian enterprises not to develop them but to eliminate them as competitors. 
What of the situation in relation to Australian patents and designs? If a small Australian individual or company is first in a field and likely to give Australia an industrial and trade advantage over the bigger and wealthier nations, could that small company or that individual withstand the weight of money in a legal action, such as that which happened in the Rheem case, in order to defend itself or would such a company be forced to capitulate? I believe that if we are to retain our place in the complex technical world we must protect Australian industry from the piracy of its technology. To do this we may have to provide a system of legal aid to companies to enable them to defend themselves against an abuse of the processes of our courts by actions such as that in the Rheem case. Therefore I hope that, in its review of the programme to foster Australian industrial creativity and efficiency, the Government will also consider the possibility of giving protection from piracy by legal abuse by the weight of money. That is not to be taken as the sort of argument that has been spuriously put forward that any introduction of foreign capital is something that we must avoid. What we must do, I suggest, is simply not allow an abuse of the processes of the court to win where fair competition could not. 
The next matter to which I wish to turn is the setting up of a metric conversion board.  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral said that legislation will be introduced to set up this board so that a programme can be prepared for conversion to the metric system. The action comes after the recommendations that have been made by a Select Committee of this Senate which, I remind the Senate, comprised honourable senators from each of the parties in the chamber. It conducted a very thorough inquiry and produced a unanimous report. Its recommendations are now being implemented, and I believe that there is some urgency surrounding that action. 
The cost of conversion has been estimated by some authorities as increasing by about 8% a year. The Associated Chambers of Commerce of Australia and other bodies concerned have wholeheartedly supported the Committee's report. I do not think it is an overstatement to say that an overwhelming body of opinion favours the adoption in Australia of the metric system. That steps are being taken in this direction by the Government is yet another example of a realistic action by a government which is not afraid to grasp the nettle and to take the necessary steps, even though such action may in some ways be complicacted or expensive. It is surprising to find that some of the opposition which has appeared to the change to the metric system has come from a member of the Federal Opposition and from some branches of the Australian Labor Party which that member has been able to influence. It is also surprising that the socalled new and united Australian Labor Party is divided on an issue on which the general opinion is so overwhelmingly one way. The ALP was represented on the Committee that made the recommendations unanimously in favour of conversion to the metric system. Perhaps the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  in another place is in a better position to judge than the members of the Committee who studied the problem. One does not know. 
One does not know whether he is in a better position to judge. I simply draw attention to the amazing situation that although almost everyone is in favour of the change, certain sections of the Party that the honourable senator represents apparently are not in favour of it. 
I turn now to consider the conflict in Vietnam. This is another matter which excites the emotions of members of the Opposition. The Governor-General referred to Vietnam in his speech and I hope that some honourable senators opposite will listen, for once in their lives, my reading of what he said. It is quite obvious that they have had their ears closed for most of their lives. The Governor-General said: 
My Government deplores the continuing threat posed by North Vietnam and strongly supports the continuing efforts which are being made to achieve a hist and lasting peace through negotiation. 
Some people have maintained that North Vietnam has displayed no aggressive intentions and that the war in Vietnam is just a civil war. I wonder whether the people of Laos would agree with that at this moment. I wonder whether the people of Laos believe that North Vietnam has never displayed aggressive intentions. If North Vietnam has no aggressive intentions, what are its troops doing in Laos? Can any honourable senator opposite amongst those who so espouse the cause of North Vietnam explain why and how the troops of North Vietnam have any right to be in Laos, let alone explain why those troops are killing Laotian, troops and citizens and taking control of part of that country? 
The last thing I wish to see is an extension of the conflict in that area of South East Asia. The United States Government has made it clear that it does not intend to escalate but rather to de-escalate the strength of its assistance in the area. I ask honourable senators opposite who are interjecting just to listen for a moment and to spare a passing thought for the people who have been overrun by North Vietnamese troops, through no fault of their own. Like the South Vietnamese, they did not attack North Vietnam. Does any honourable senator opposite believe that the lessening of our interest in the area will make less likely further invasions by North Vietnam? The leaders of North Vietnam have made it abundantly clear that their intention is to gain military and political control of all the area which was once Indo-China. Perhaps those people who cannot readily supply justification for the actions of North Vietnam should consult with that great spokesman for the Communist countries who is at present visiting Australia. I refer to none other than that so-called Australian, Wilfred Burchett. I have no doubt that he could supply them with the latest Communist' propaganda so that they could repeat it and thus assist the Communist propaganda war. 
Can any supporter of Wilfred Burchett say whether he is correct in his recent denial that he has held Communist Party membership? Is it not correct that for some -time he was employed by the Russian Intourist organisation and in fact opened up its London office? Is it not true that such a position is open only to a member of the Communist Party? Perhaps some of Wilfred Burchett's supporters or even Wilfred Burchett himself would like to answer that question. However much I would like to go on to discuss that matter at the moment, I hope and trust there will be a better opportunity to debate the position of that so-called Australian than during the debate on the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply. 
I wish now to discuss another aspect of the conflict in Vietnam and to raise some points on which I hope genuine Australians can constructively think and act. Again I implore honourable senators opposite to open their ears on this subject for just a few minutes. I accept that people have a right to express their concern about Vietnam. Of course they have a right to express their view on any matter, so long as they do not succour the enemy. I ask the socalled hawks and doves to give a thought to the position of the allied prisoners of war held in North Vietnam camps. Apparently this is a matter of some amusement to  Senator Wheeldon. 
Apparently  Senator Wheeldon  does not pay any attention to what is being said so one cannot wonder that he finds it so amusing to sit in this chamber without considering for one moment the position of the prisoners of war. Some efforts have been made by an American millionaire. Apart from that, what has been done by people to bring pressure to bear on North Vietnam to observe basic humane requirements in the treatment of fellow human beings? Every report of ex-prisoners of war tells of torture, degradation and starvation. Many honourable senators on both sides of the chamber have good reason to carry strong feelings on this subject. 1 am hopeful that within this country and around the world a pressure of public feeling will grow sufficient to influence the Communists in their search for sympathy and support - a pressure which will make them behave in a more humane way to people who, through no individual fault of their own, find themselves to be prisoners of war. lt is obvious that the Communists are sensitive to public opinion because' of their concentration upon the propaganda war, which they have waged, unfortunately with such success, to win public sympathy around the world. They have succeeded in misleading people as to the real nature of events in Vietnam. They use their members of Parliament, such as those who may or may not voice themselves here and in the other place, and their fellow travellers like Wilfred Burchett, to try to mould public opinion in their favour. I hope and trust that sufficient numbers of Australians will attempt to reverse that pressure in order to win humane treatment for prisoners of the Communists. It is unfortunate that I have to raise this matter. One can but feel that some of the attention which has been directed by those who are organising the so-called moratorium in May will be not directed towards achieving a greater humanity from the Communists but rather towards achieving a greater support for their propaganda war. 
While dealing with Vietnam, I wish to mention the other matter referred to in the Governor-General's Speech - the civic action programme which, he said, would be continued. 1 believe it is most important. Also, more often than not it is overlooked. We have situations such as that at the Bien Hoa hospital. But not many members opposite, who have been trying to interject, would know anything about it because none of them will dare go there because they are frightened of being converted. Is it not true that the ones who went there did come back a little converted? 
Listen to the jackals roar. When they have stopped protesting - if I may use the microphone to over-ride them and to continue - I shall point to something such as the Bien Hoa hospital which none of them has visited. It would do them good to visit it because they might see something that might change some of their opinions. 
I hear  Senator Poyser  interjecting. I well recall that I suggested to  Senator Poyser,  when he had the opportunity to go to Vietnam, that he should go there and see the position. Instead of that, he flew over it or he attempted to fly over it. He did not want to go there to see what was going on. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order!  Senator Rae  will be heard. 
I am not suggesting that  Senator Poyser  is anything other than a loyal Australian, but I do think it might have improved his knowledge had he visited the country. 

 Senator Rae to withdraw the imputations made against  Senator Poyser's  courage and character. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order! That is not the point of order. 
I had, before all this- 
I had, before all this shemozzle started - to use the word that has just been suggested to me - made it quite plain, as Hansard will recall, that 1 said that 1 make no imputation against  Senator Poyser  personally. I have the greatest regard for  Senator Poyser's  personal courage. I simply do not agree with some of his political views. Lest there be any misunderstanding, I repeat that I did not nor do 1 make any imputation against  Senator Poyser's  personal courage, but 1 do say and I will repeat that certain members of the Opposition had the opportunity, had they chosen to take it. to visit the country of which I was speaking and to see the position for themselves, but they have not chosen to take that opportunity. I wish also to refute a suggestion made by another honourable senator opposite that I was reading my speech and that this was a preconceived attack of some kind upon  Senator Poyser.  I am quite happy for any honourable senator to look at my notes. He will find no reference to  Senator Poyser  in the notes which 1 have and on the page from which I am now speaking which is headed: 'Civil Action programme will continue. Most important, frequently overlooked'. If that is the speech 1 am alleged to be reading, it is certainly in shorthand. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order! The honourable senator is going beyond the point of order. I must dispose of the point of order first.  Senator Rae  has made his explanation which I think is satisfactory. I do not uphold the point of order. 
 1  was referring to the Bien Hoa hospital and some of the work which has been done there. To remind some of those honourable senators who may have lost the track, I was also speaking about the civil action programme. The Bien Hoa hospital is part of that programme. It has been rebuilt. The facilities have been rebuilt. 
It has been staffed with a medical team, all of whom have been supplied by Australia. While I was there I had a conversation with a member of the Australian staff - the doctor in charge. As I left 1 asked him whether there was anything further which he considered important and which they needed. His answer made me feel ashamed of some Australians, because he said: "There is nothing we need more than for a few more Australians to know that we exist'. In all the campaign which has been waged in the Press about this matter by way of propaganda, what sort of credit is given by those who oppose our involvement in Vietnam to people such as that doctor who are serving the cause of humanity in a most admirable way? 
We have our armed Services there, lt is suggested that we should withdraw our Army. People forget the extent to which the Army is engaged in the civic aid programme. The list of projects which the Army is engaged in in relation to that programme is very long. It is a programme of which we can be and should be proud. Australia spends a considerable amount of money on this type of aid - that is, military civic aid. 
 1 am asked how much. 1 am glad to answer, because the cost by way of military labour and equipment alone is over $3m per annum. This is for military civic action alone. In relation to the military civic aid programme - not the civil programme^ - a further  $im  of SEATO aid funds has been applied each year. I would like to refer to some of the various types of assistance which are given by the Australian military forces towards this programme. I refer to the building of bridges, the building of roads, of which 22 kilometres of sealed two-lane highways has been constructed in the past 6 months and 14 kilometres more are under construction. Extensions to the provincial hospital including a child health and maternity building, kitchen and dining room, toilets and ambulance garage were carried out, and major repairs were effected to sewerage and drainage systems, water and electric reticulation. One could go on through the list of the immense work which has been done by the Australian military forces in Vietnam under the civic aid programme. This is  something which has been overlooked by those who say we should withdraw, because the withdrawal of our armed forces would mean the withdrawal of this type of assistance. 
The medical civic action provides a scheduled weekly visit to each of the villages outside the capital of the province in which the Australian forces are involved. Some 1,000 medical patients and 150 dental patients are treated each week. Apparently honourable senators have some interest in the type of assistance given by the Australian military forces to the civic aid programme which is included in this long list and, therefore, I will deal with one or two more. In the field of education, the Australian military forces have built schools and provided teachers. They have provided libraries. English is taught to 800 high school students and public servants. Trained agriculturalists who are members of the armed forces are provided. This aid is overlooked repeatedly when people talk about Australia's military involvement in Vietnam. There are many other aspects which are too long to go through in detail in the short time available to me tonight. With the concurrence of honourable senators I incorporate in Hansard a list of details of military civil action in Vietnam. 
That, no doubt, is a matter of great interest, but if we start to debate that question with all its ramifications we would spend all our time tonight on that. I want to pass on to the more limited subjects. For instance, there is the simple matter of a bridge which has been constructed. Last year, about June, in the province in which Australia is involved, so as to open up a huge area of rice growing country to the farmers our men replaced a bridge that had been out of commission for 15 years, having been repeatedly blown up by the North Vietnamese or the Vietcong. For want of that bridge the people there were prevented from cultivating a large area. I repeat, that bridge was rebuilt by Australian troops. At first it was guarded by Australian troops but in view of what has happened in Vietnam and with the great reorganisation that has taken place there this duty was taken over by the Vietnamese local defence force. The bridge has been in use ever since. 
If our forces are to stay there for this valuable work, should they stay there unprotected? Should they be exposed to North Vietnamese attack while they work, or should they be protected by Australian troops? I regard as an example of ignorance or lack of honesty the efforts of so many who urge a withdrawal on terms which would involve a withdrawal of this military civic aid of which I have spoken. 
I pass on to another matter which I hope will not receive less reaction from honourable senators who seem to resent anything said which does not entirely agree with their views. I think they might agree with me when I say that it is good to see the increase, from $15,000 to $17,500 in the value of a house which may be obtained with the aid of a homes savings grant. This will be welcomed by the many people who take advantage of this great scheme, which provides such valuable assistance and incentive to young people and enables more of them to build and own their homes. For some time past I have been concerned that credit unions were not included in the scheme. It seems to me that credit unions play a valuable and very real part in the everyday life of many Australians. These unions serve a very useful purpose. Their only drawback is a too close association with one political party, an association which at times leads to a feeling by some members that their funds are being misapplied to expenditure on what amounts to propaganda for the Australian Labor Party. The value of credit unions is undoubted, and I trust the recognition given to them will help them to gain in strength and independence. The subject of light aircraft, mentioned in the defence portion of the Speech, has been a matter of some concern to many Australians for some considerable time. Australia has suffered the loss of the Victa aircraft industry, which was built up in Australia. Moreover, the Australian designed Airtruk Aircraft failed to gain Tariff Board support. The aircraft industry is obviously of the greatest importance to the defence of Australia, to Australian industry and in particular to the Australian aircraft industry which should be as versatile as possible. The promotion of this industry referred to in Hi.* 
Excellency's Speech will be welcomed by all those who have given careful thought to this matter. 
In view of the time I shall refer briefly to divorce costs, which were mentioned in the Speech. 
For those who cannot read - there seem to be some who have trouble in reading - it is page 14. His Excellency said: 
My Government also proposes to introduce legislation to reduce delays in the hearing of proceedings for divorce and to reduce the cost to litigants. This will be done by enabling State Courts of intermediate jurisdiction to hear certain undefended divorce cases and to simplify procedures for the enforcement of maintenance orders granted in another State or Territory.  1 believe that this is an improvement and that it is necessary because in some places, perhaps through no fault of those concerned with the system, costs have reached scandalous proportions. There are huge variations from State to State in the cost of administering or operating a scheme which is supposed to be uniform throughout Australia. The cost of undefended divorce cases varies from about $200 to $500 or more. Delay in the hearing of cases varies from perhaps 1 month to 9 months or 1 2 months, or more, depending upon the place and the times of hearings. 
Divorce should be available on the most simple, least embarrassing and least costly basis that is possible. I am not at the moment proposing an extension of the grounds for divorce; that is another matter entirely. I simply refer to the procedure which applies to the present grounds for divorce. Within the limits of what is now accepted the procedure could and should be simplified. I am pleased that steps are being taken to ensure this simplification. The law societies are co-operating in this effort, and I know that in my own State, Tasmania, a committee is preparing a report for submission to the AttorneyGeneral on how best these problems can be overcome. 1 might add that Tasmania has the best record in overcoming them and so may be able to give a lead to some of the other States. I trust that the matter will not be left at the reduction of divorce costs and of delays in hearings. 
I refer also to the " provision of legal assistance to parties, whether petitioners or respondents, who wish to take advantage of the opportunity which our legal system provides. At present there is a limitation on the schemes available for the granting of assistance which could be remedied by the intervention of the Commonwealth Government. 1 hope that such intervention will not be long in coming. I refer to the granting of further assistance to the State schemes, which are operating quite well and are a credit to all involved but which do lack funds, particularly in some States. This lack of funds could be overcome by Commonwealth participation in legal aid schemes. 
In conclusion I refer only briefly to some of the other matters which I consider to bc of great importance and of great interest to the people of Australia. The income tax relief promised is not a new idea, lt was mentioned by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  in his policy speech last October. I am sure the promise which was made then and the action which has been foreshadowed in  His  Excellency's Speech will provide a great deal of encouragement to a section of the community which is in need of encouragement, that is, young men with families. Many of these young men are at a stage of life when their greatest expense is upon them, when their greatest interest in work is with them, and when they have the problem of bringing up a young family and paying a relatively high tax. 1 trust that following the review promised by the Prime Minister and referred to by the Governor-General as being undertaken an increase will be provided in the allowable deduction for children, which is probably the simplest and most effective way of giving assistance to the people most in need of some relief from the effect of income tax. 
There are many other matters which i would like to have had an opportunity of mentioning tonight. I am sure the GovernorGeneral's Speech will give great encouragement to the people of Australia and that we shall go into the 1970s with a Government which has feeling, which is responsible, and which is showing consideration for the general welfare of the community in a way which will bring about the greatest benefit to the greatest number of people. This country can be proud of the programme  outlined in the Speech. It has been my honour to move the adoption of the Address-in-Reply to the Speech. 
 My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Navy. Can the Minister indicate the stage that has been reached by the Navy in the evaluation of the British Harrier vertical take-off and landing aircraft? Is it correct that a Harrier will be brought  to  Australia this year for demonstration and further evaluation? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. As a brief preface 1 refer to the numerous industrial disputes which have interfered with the operation of the Australian National Line ship Empress of Australia' and to the fact that the ship is at present making its second consecutive trip without passengers. T ask: ls there any foundation for the allegation made publicly last weekend that consideration is being given to converting 'Empress of Australia' to freight carrying only? If so, will the Minister give an assurance that that ship will not be altered or that another suitable passenger ferry will be substituted so that there will be a continuation of this most important tourist and business service from Sydney to Tasmanian ports? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport been directed to the latest marine emergency involving a trimaran type yacht named 'Kareela'? Can the Minister state whether this yacht, which carried young children, was structurally and by design capable of safe sea passage in the type of conditions which it may reasonably have been expected to encounter on a Pacific Ocean cruise? Will the Minister again consider my earlier requests for an investigation into the safety of vessels of the trimaran type and, if necessary; place some suitable restriction upon their use for off-shore passages? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Prime Minister been drawn to newspaper reports of the display of lawlessness in the sacking of the North Vietnamese and Vietcong embassies in Cambodia? Does this action indicate that there is no overwhelming desire by Cambodians to be - in the words of the Communists and their fellow travellers - liberated by North Vietnam but rather that they, along with the Laotians and 
South Vietnamese, object deeply and forcefully to North Vietnam's refusal to observe their territorial integrity and right to live free from aggression by Communist forces? 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
Can the Minister indicate the stage which has been reached by the Navy in the evaluation of the British Harrier VTOL aircraft. 
Is it correct that a Harrier aircraft will be brought to Australia this year for demonstration and further evaluation. 
In broad terms I support the setting up of a select committee for the purposes outlined in the motion, but in so doing I make it quite clear that I also support Senators Wright and Byrne in their dissociation from the remarks made by  Senator Murphy  in support of his motion. I support the motion in general terms - not because 1 am satisfied that there has been malpractice, however strong the prima facie case may appear on the basis of some newspaper reports, but because there is public disquiet. There is a sufficient case, on the basis of what  Senator Byrne  said, without mentioning any names, to say that in the public interest an inquiry should be undertaken. But let us in this chamber not be accused of having prejudged the matter. I thought it unfortunate iti the extreme that  Senator Murphy  said - particularly after 1 asked him whether he was aware that an inquiry into the affairs of one of the companies had commenced and he replied that he was - that not only was he aware that there was one inquiry but that he was aware that there were three inquiries into the activities of that company. Having made that statement, he named an individual associated with that company and named other individuals associated with other companies. This type of prejudging and the implications contained in the speech of the Leader of the Opposition are things which I deplore and from which I wish to dissociate myself. As the committees of inquiry have been set up, there is no need for us in this chamber to attack individuals. It was unfortunate that unnecessary allegations were made against people who at this stage have no opportunity to reply. lt is a well known provision of the law that we should not attempt to poison the fountain of justice before it has begun to flow. I believe that some of the statements made tonight would have that tendency. What right of reply have the individuals? What could be more calculated to poison the fountain than to refer to them by name when some of them are already the subject matter of inquiries? 
 Senator O'Byrne  is sitting across the chamber, jabbering. One could well understand that this debate would be above his head; so no doubt he will continue to jabber. But I shall continue to speak. 
Perhaps jabbering from the treetops would be a more appropriate comment to make. Last year's Hansard contains three statements with which, in general  terms,  I agree. They are: 
Any citizen accused of an offence is entitled to  a  trial before a court of justice. 
We must not allow trial by politicians to follow trial by  a  court of justice. 
Nor should we allow trial by politicians to precede trial by a court of justice. The third comment is: 
It is basic to the civil rights of the citizen that his acquittal be not brought into question, especially in Parliament where he who does so is immune. How is the citizen to defend himself if that is to be the practice in Parliament? 
When inquiries are proceeding, one would have thought  that  it would be reasonable to ask: 'How can the citizen defend himself if this is to be the practice of Parliament?' 1 have been asked: Who said that?' The person who  said  it was the person who made the attacks on the individuals tonight - the Leader  of  the Opposition  (Senator Murphy).  It is recorded at page 130 of Hansard for last year. A further notorious fact is that  litigation  is pending in relation to certain of the individuals named by  Senator Murphy  tonight. For a person who knows  that  litigation is pending  -  I presume the honourable senator does because I expect that generally speaking he does know what he talked about tonight, that he has studied it and that he is well aware of his facts - to attack the persons involved  in the  litigation is also unfortunate. In relation to the attitude of the courts to attacks  of  this kind, I think perhaps a quotation  to  this effect is appropriate:  lt is a contempt of this court for any newspaper to comment on pending legal proceedings in any way which is likely to prejudice the fair trial of the action. That may arise in various ways, lt may bc that the comment is one which is likely in some way or other to bring pressure to bear upon one or other of the parties to the action, so as to prevent that party from prosecuting or from defending the action, or encourage that party to submit to terms of compromise which he otherwise might not have been prepared to entertain, or influence him in some other way in his conduct of the action, which he ought to be free to prosecute  or  to defend, as he is advised, without being subject to such pressure. It may be thai the publication will be of a kind that is likely to interfere with the proper adducing of evidence in the case either by discouraging witnesses from coming forward or by influencing them in some way in the kind of evidence that they are prepared, inhibiting them in ways of that kind; or it may be, if the case is to be tried with a jury, that the publication may be one of a kind which will be apt to make a juryman approach the case without a completely open mind. 
I think that perhaps it would be as well for the Senate to remember that quotation. That could very likely apply here if we gave approval to some of the wild allegations which have been flying about in the Press and which have been picked up by  Senator Murphy  and repeated in this chamber. That would give to the general public an impression that we agree with some of the wilder allegations which are, as yet, unproven, although they are the subject matter of investigation or litigation. I trust that the Press, in reporting tonight's proceedings, will have due regard to the fact that it may prejudice the trial or the inquiries if it were to publish the allegations against some of the individuals - allegations which were made, 1 believe, unfortunately and unnecessarily by  Senator Murphy  in proposing this motion. I repeat that in general terms I support the motion but I do not - I repeat 'not' - support the allegations made against individuals, which allegations were unfair and unfortunate. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Army. To what extent are the wishes and preferences of national servicemen given credit in deciding the posting of these servicemen to the various units of the Army? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs. Firstly, are there any, and if so, what number, of Australian civilians and members of the armed forces held prisoner by the North Vietnamese or  the  Vietcong? Secondly, what is the total number of American armed forces personnel held prisoner by the North Vietnamese or Vietcong? Finally, are Australia's representatives at the United 
Nations taking any, and if so what, steps to endeavour to secure humane treatment for prisoners of war held by the North Vietnamese or Vietcong? 
I have found this debate interesting from many points of view. It is a very serious subject. It is a subject upon which many of us at various times have wondered whether we, as a country, and we, as a Government, were doing as much as we ought to do for the people who undoubtedly deserve our assistance. I do not think any honourable senator on either side of the House would say for one moment that those who are eligible for assistance under the war service homes scheme do not deserve that assistance. But we have a problem which is common to all governments, a problem which, in a country that is growing so rapidly as ours is growing at the moment, has unfortunately become very real. I refer to the problem of balancing a budget, the problem of devoting and diverting sufficient funds to the right quarters at the right time. In this case all that has happened, as  Senator Little  said earlier tonight, is that every one of us on both sides of the Senate has underestimated the amount which would be required to keep the war service homes scheme operating satisfactorily for the full 12 months period. 
Last year the Government increased by almost 10% to $55m the amount that would be made available for the operation of this scheme. It was anticipated by the Government at that time that this amount would be sufficient to meet the expected demand so that the scheme could continue to operate in the satisfactory manner in which it has been operating during the period that the present Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  has been in charge of. the War Service Homes Division. The attack which has been made on the Minister this afternoon and this evening has been most unfortunate. Although on both sides of the Senate we have been guilty of an under-estimation, honourable senators opposite have tried to lay the full blame on the Minister and have not accepted any blame for themselves. I cannot recall, nor can I find, any reference in the discussions on the Budget last year to suggest that the Government's allocation for war service homes was inadequate for the forthcoming year, lt has turned out to be inadequate, but is that the fault of the Minister? ls it the fault of the Government? ls it the fault of the Parliament? I think not. lt is due to a number of factors which were nol foreseen or even foreseeable. 
Not one honourable senator on either side of the chamber has suggested during this debate a basis upon which the Government or the Minister should have foreseen the extra demand that would be made for this service. During this debate we have had a rather extraordinary performance. It began with perhaps a genuine concern being expressed, but then there were introduced the most extraordinary red herrings. We heard a discussion from  Senator O'Byrne  about a capital gains tax. Then we heard  Senator Keeffe  talk about how many Ministers and how many Government supporters had been in the chamber at a particular time. I noticed that the time that he picked at which to start his count was the moment when I, among others, had walked out of the chamber to go to my room to look up some material in relation to this matter and to continue to listen to the debate, as we are all able to do, over the loud  speaker  in my room. Although I might not have been here at the time that the honourable senator began his count, 1 was here for a substantial part of the debate and heard the early part of  Senator McClelland's  speech, in addition to which I listened to the remainder of the debate from my room, as no doubt did other honourable senators from both sides of the Senate. 

 Senator Keeffe's remarks were a condemnation not only of honourable senators on this side of the chamber but also of those on the other side. Honourable senators are not always able to be in the chamber. 1 should have thought that all honourable senators would respect the fact that no-one can carry out his parliamentary duties, prepare his speeches, conduct his research and be in attendance here all the time. But this was the impression being given by  Senator Keeffe  during his rather unfortunate remarks. Perhaps remarks of this kind are understandable when one realises the Opposition, in relation to this motion, was rather bereft of facts. Once  Senator McClelland  had completed his speech there was very little that could be said. Honourable senators opposite, in order to continue with the debate, had to talk about something, so they talked about everything else, including capital gains tax. We had the extraordinary situation that it was not until the concluding speech by  Senator Brown,  whom 1 congratulate for his remarks, lhat we heard a return to the subject.  His  was a creditable departure from the performance which had been forthcoming from the Opposition during the remainder of the debate. I do not agree with what he said, but I. congratulate him for at least speaking to the subject. 
I should like now to return to the subject and to correct some of the things that  Senator Brown  said. The honourable senator, and as I recall it other honourable senators opposite, said that now we have had a sudden change of policy by the Government because loans to persons entitled to borrow from the War Service Homes Division were either being deferred or refused. Both of these terms were used by various people. Although  Senator Brown  used another term, the word he should have used was 'deferred'. The situation is that loans are being held over for a period until the new Budget year begins. One wonders whether this is not perhaps a common experience in Federal and State governments and in various business enterprises. 
Everyone has experienced a rush in excess of that budgeted for in the earlier part of the year and has found a lean time towards the end of the year. This is exactly what has happened in this case, through no fault of the Minister and through no fault of any person on either side of the chamber. If there is any fault, I suggest that the Opposition must share equal blame for failing to draw it to the Government's attention. lt is completely unfair for honourable senators opposite to blame the Minister who has done such an excellent job during the time that she has been Minister for Housing and in charge of war service homes. We all know that the present situation is unfortunate and we regret it. I sincerely regret any delay in obtaining a loan for any man or woman who is entitled to assistance and who has applied for assistance to purchase a home. However, it is not an insuperable problem. 
Certain honourable senators opposite have made an incredible accusation about the terms upon which bridging finance can be obtained. It is said that people have to pay 14% or 16%. It is said that bridging finance can be obtained only on the terms of a usurer. In my experience, and in the experience of a large number of other people who have been concerned either directly or indirectly with this matter, the average person is able to obtain bridging finance from either a bank, which could hardly be said to be charging the terms of a usurer, or from a building society which, likewise, could hardly be regarded as charging the terms of a usurer. 
We also hud the incredible situation of a completely misinformed statement - it is perhaps typical - being made by an honourable senator opposite to the effect that lawyers are guilty of the most terrible crime of lending money at the terms of a usurer. He shows his complete ignorance of the subject. He does not realise that very few lawyers would be in a position to lend their own money. All they are doing is assisting persons who want to purchase a home to come in contact with organisations which are in a position to lend money. The lawyers act as the intermediary in regard to contacting these organisations. They are not getting personal benefit out of any of the interest which may be charged.  Senator O'Byrne  implied tonight that the lawyers themselves were making a huge profit. He said that they should stand condemned for their actions in this respect. I say that he should stand condemned for his ignorance. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Sir Magnus Cormack)  - Order! The honourable senator will resume his seat. The time allowed for this debate having expired, the Senate will proceed to the business of the day. 
I wish to put forward a suggestion slightly different from that put forward by  Senator Greenwood.  It seems to me to be preferable to overcome the problem referred to by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  and the problem referred to by earlier speakers in this debate. 1 think it preferable that the decision to be made as to the admissibility or otherwise of evidence should be in the discretion of the trial judge. To bring that about it would be necessary to place the provision as to the exercising of discretion in clause 1 5 (2.). The provision could be to the effect that in respect of evidence which may be placed before a trial judge, there is a discretion as to whether he admits it having regard to grounds such as fairness to an accused person. This then leaves it open to an accused person upon his trial to be able to take whatever points are able to be taken and to put before a trial judge points as to fairness or otherwise in the taking of the original evidence. 
It may be necessary to spell out in clause 15(2.) in greater detail the basis upon which discretion should be exercised. I have not had time to think this point through to a stage where I could suggest the exact wording. At present I am speaking on a matter of principle rather than a matter of detail. 1 think that perhaps  Senator Murphy  is getting deeper into the question than I have done. In general I would prefer to see the matter approached from the point of view I have stated. Where is it preferable that there be an exercise of discretion? ls it better to have an argument as to whether a magistrate had reasonable grounds, or is it better to have an argument on the usual basis of fairness to an accused person, which opens up all the arguments which can be put, without limiting the discussion to reasonable grounds but involving the matter of what, in the exercise of a judge's discretion which is appealable, he thinks should be admitted or should not be admitted in the particular circumstances of a trial? For that reason I suggest for consideration that another provision be included in clause 15 (2.) for the exercise of discretion, with any proper guidelines, that should be mentioned, by the trial judge. 
Does the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service know whether it is correct, as alleged by a South Australian trade union secretary, that the Australian Council of Trade Unions has, under its new president, invited certain Communist unionists to visit this country; that the ACTU proposes to spend union raised funds to finance this visit; and that no such invitation has been issued to non-Communist unionists from the United Kingdom or the United States of America? If this is correct, is there or will there be any statutory right for objecting unionists to require this matter to be referred to the constituent State trades and labour councils or to individual unionists prior to the expenditure of union raised funds against the strong wishes of a significant section of those who provide those funds? 
I support the amendment as it stands. As drafted it accords with the general principle which I suggested last night as the way in which it would be best to act to overcome the problems, but I am still a little confused by the amendment as finally drafted and as explained by  Senator Murphy.  It seems to me that the practical effect of the amendment -  Senator Murphy  has mentioned that he was responsible for changing the sense of the last part of the sub-clause - is to reverse the onus of proof. As I understand it, this is what was desired in that more often than not it will be the prosecution which will wish to have evidence admitted and more often than not it will be an accused person who will wish to have evidence excluded. Whoever wishes to have evidence admitted carries the onus of proof to cause a trial judge or magistrate to exercise his discretion to admit the evidence. I rather think, looking at the matter in that way, that that entirely overcomes the point which was made by  Senator Greenwood  that the amendment renders nugatory the provisions which he mentioned. It seems to me to be perhaps a departure from the approach better known to the law in relation to things such as the Judges Rules in relation to the admission of statements made by an accused person. I should think that it was perfectly acceptable to say that it shall be admissible except where some reason can be shown why in fairness it should not be admitted. But since this agreement has been made and since it is acceptable to the Minister, I do not intend to pursue the point further, except to say that it is perhaps going further than is necessary and may, in the words of  Senator Byrne,  leave the community at large at a disadvantage. If there is a doubt, let us give the benefit of that doubt to the person who may be on trial. 
The other point to which I would draw attention in passing is that the amendment as drafted states: 
In proceedings under the Crimes (Aircraft) Act 1963 the Magistrate or Court hearing the proceedings shall not admit in evidence a document . . . 
The Bill contains no definition of 'court'. Probably it is unnecessary to define 'court', although it is common in legislation of this sort to define a court where there are different types of courts and different types of proceedings being referred to in the legislation. It may be that on further consideration by the Minister and his staff at some later stage it might be thought desirable to take that point into account. I simply draw attention to it in passing, not in any way suggesting that the passage of the Bill should be delayed for that purpose. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. Is it a fact that the Vietnam Moratorium scheduled for 8th, 9th and 10th May is an attempt to create, for political purposes, a dislocation of the right and opportunity for Australians to go about their lawful purposes by stoppages in industry and transport and by impeding the freedom of movement in the streets? Is this an abrogation of the basic principles of the United Nations' sponsored movement to secure the observance of the rule of law? 
Can the Minister representing the Postmaster-General indicate the number of miles of Australian roads which have, in the past 3 years, been made safer and more attractive to users by the removal of unsightly telephone poles pursuant to the programme of placing PMG wiring underground? Is the programme continuing, and is it anticipated (hat all PMG wiring will eventually be placed underground? 
Fill AND PHANTOM AIRCRAFT 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service aware that a daily increasing and responsible section of the trade union movement of Australia has indicated its strong disapproval of the call made by  Dr J.  F. Cairns, 
M.H.R., and others, for unionists to leave their employment and engage in an unlawful strike during the Communist supported Vietnam Moratorium in May? If so, does the Minister intend to take any action to safeguard the Australian trade union movement from such unwanted and unwarranted interference? 
It is not a call for peace, as  Senator Georges  has claimed. Some very significant words appear at the top of a document I received today, purporting to come from the organisation sponsoring this Campaign. The document states: 
A moratorium against business as usual to end the war. 
In other words, it is a call to the people of Australia to stop business as usual within Australia, to prevent the community going about its affairs. It is a cull to dislocate industry, community services and transport and to reduce the right of the people to enter into the streets where they are entitled to passage. I turn to another part of the document to which I was treated in this morning's mail. It states: 
We call upon all Australians to examine anew their commitment to peace 
And here is an extraordinary thing -  and to join us in a Moratorium on 'Business as Usual' . . . 
In other words, to get peace you should employ violence, disruption and anything else. That is what it comes down to. The document continues:  while the suffering of the Vietnamese people continues we cannot go on with business as usual. 
The document asks people to commit themselves, to organise and to promote this effort in our work places, our campuses and our community, lt is a deliberate attempt to disrupt the community and to create a situation of lawlessness. 1 propose to study further just what the creation of lawlessness means to some of the people who are sponsoring the campaign. At page 998 of Hansard of the House of Representatives of 10th April  Dr Everingham  is reported to have said: 

 Mr Speaker and honourable members, it is no argument to condemn the action of any person because he disobeys a law. That law must also be shown to be just. There is no ground for condemning  a  member of Parliament or any person for any action he takes which resembles that of an unjust person, a Communist, a Fascist, a dictator or a totalitarian unless that action is unjust. I object to the  doctrime  of guilt by association which has been implied repeatedly in this chamber today.  i  object to the doctrine that law and order must be obeyed according to the book and according to the letter, and that this is the only test of democracy, because all too often it is the very means by which democracy is destroyed and democracy . is prevented from emerging. 
I wish to analyse the views advanced by  Dr Everingham.  Who is to decide what is a just law? Who is to decide whether justice is being done? From what  Dr Everingham  has said I presume that it is the individual himself. But what guidelines does an individual use? Does he use his own feelings or preferences, his own thoughts on a particular subject that concerns him and about which a law has been made by a democratically elected Government? Let us assume that an individual is concerned about a traffic law, and that he objects to it on the ground that it is unjust. History shows that  Dr Cairns  regarded a Melbourne City Council by-law as unjust. That is a relatively insignificant matter but it is not unreasonable to expect that he or somebody else may have strong feelings about some of the traffic laws. 
It may be that  Dr Cairns  would take particular exception to the traffic law which distinguishes the practice on our roads from that in other countries. I refer to the traffic law which states that we must-drive on the left hand side of the road.  Dr Cairns  or  Dr Everingham  or any other person who espouses the theory of disobedience to an unjust law may say: 'I regard that law as unjust and therefore I will disobey it. I will drive on the right hand side of the road and everyone else should get out of my way'. Is that a socially acceptable action? M'ould that lead to carnage and destruction? Is there any real difference between a person who takes that sort of action to mark his protest against an unjust traffic law and a person who takes a different sort of action to mark his protest against another type of law? I refer, for instance, to action taken to disrupt industries, to take over the streets to mark a protest against the National Service Act. What is the difference between the two actions? Each one comes down to a personal decision and a decision which cannot be related to the good of the community or its wishes. After all, the good of the community and its wishes are intended to be reflected in a democratically elected Parliament. 
The arguments that have been put forward by  Dr Everingham  are the arguments put forward originally by ancient anarchists and I see no difference between the anarchists of ancient times and those of modern days. I accuse those people who support such an approach of being anarchists. I believe that anarchy is the destruction of our democratic way of life. It is the destruction of our whole way of life which we have come to respect. The call by  Dr Cairns  has not been accepted by significant sections of the trade union movement. In fact, the National Council of the Federated Ironworkers Association has called on its membership of about 67,000 to treat with contempt the call by  Dr Cairns.  It seems extraordinary, if the call really does come from a natural and spontaneous motivation of such a significant section of the community, that such a strong body of unionists should call on its members to treat it with contempt. 
Some unfortunate remarks were made in this chamber not long ago which can be considered in the light of what  Senator Greenwood  said and what others said by interjection to  Senator Greenwood  about association and motivation behind the call coming from the Communist Party and its influence in the protest movement. Some days ago when  Senator Sim  was speaking in this chamber he referred to one of the journals of the Communist Party which dealt with the role of the protest movement and he said: 
The Communist Party has been a driving force in the whole struggle. 

 Senator Cavanagh is recorded as having interjected: 'Good luck to them.' Good luck to those who wish to disrupt; those who wish to take over by violence; those who wish to create anarchy for their own benefit, not for the common good. Are we to wind up with the type of repressive regime which operates in the Communist countries of this world? It has been argued by some that there is no evidence that the Moratorium Campaign will lead to violence, but only that it may. The Government has been criticised for the statement which it made yesterday through its Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  warning the community of the possibility that this type of action would lead to violence and loss of property and possibly to loss of life. Surely a community is entitled to be warned of any matter which may lead to violence in that community. If there was a situation where fire or flood could spread to an urban or populated area and cause loss of life or loss of property then a government aware of that would be recreant to its duty if it did not give due warning to the community and take such steps as were reasonable to see that there was no violence, no loss of life and no loss of property. This is what has been done by the present Government, but has it been accepted in that spirit by Opposition supporters? Has the Opposition come out and said: 'We will do everything within our power to ensure that there is no violence.'? Have we heard from one single senator opposite that they will do everything in their power to see that there is no violence? I put it to  Senator O'Byrne  by way of interjection, and what was his reply? It was to avoid the issue, in the same way as he avoided my challenge to take part in the debate. 
What has been the attitude of the Labor Party? ls it correct that some of the leaders of the Labor Party have not yet acknowledged their support for this Moratorium Campaign? Is this because they are exercising a greater degree of responsibility than others or is it that perhaps they are not prepared to let the public know that they in fact support a call to anarchy. The history of mob violence and the history of mob action coincide. Mob action and mob violence have, throughout the years of recorded history, gone together.  Senator Greenwood,  looking at Australia, said something with which I do not entirely agree, it was the only part of his speech with which I did not agree. What he said was that this type of action has never before occurred in Australia and should never occur in the future. I agree that it should not occur in the future .but 1 do not agree that it has not occurred in the past. We have the example, in particular in the 1890s and latter part of the 1880s, when mobs did take to the streets; when we had violence; when we had death; and when we had loss of property. This is the sort of thing that is being advocated again by the Labor Party in its support for anarchy, in its support for a moratorium on 'business as usual', its support for a disruption of the work of the community - the right to work - a disruption of the right to study on the campuses and a disruption of the right to go about the streets and enjoy life in whatever way people see proper, taking such concern as they see appropriate. 
Again, in the 1920s, we had the horrible example of what happened in Victoria during the police strike. What is to happen in this case if the police find themselves so outnumbered by a huge mob in the streets of Melbourne again, for example, that they are incapable of taking any action to control a mob completely lacking direction, a mob being incited by various people - madmen amongst others - who enjoy the sort of thing that  Senator Greenwood  referred to, the burning down of schools or the looting of business premises or whatever it may be. What is to happen if that situation is created by the introduction of a large number of uncontrolled people into the streets of Melbourne or any other city? Are we to call in the Army by way of protection? Are we to call in the police reserves from other States when this is possibly going to happen in other cities to the same extent as it is going to happen in Melbourne and Sydney? What is to happen? 
I am glau to hear  Senator Lacey  interjecting because it is the first time I have seen him open his mouth since I have been in this Senate. He asked a question today. It is pretty easy to see that an election is coming up.  Senator Lacey  should keep interjecting; he might have himself re-elected. Is this a legitimate protest? Has it the basic tenets of a legitimate protest, such as the one that has been mentioned by a number of interjectors opposite - the farmers' march, for instance? That was an orderly march. That was a meeting in a public area which did not set out wilh the specific intention of bringing to a stop business as usual' within the whole of our community. This is a completely new departure and it is one which can only lead to a dislocation involving the probability of violence. It is said that Douglas Brass - some expert apparently on South East Asian affairs-- 
From the way he was quoted one would gather that he was being quoted as an expert on South East Asian affairs. He says that Australia should not continue its involvement in Vietnam. But let us look at what a real expert said. Let us look at what Denis Warner said. He is a man whose knowledge of the area and whose journalistic standing is certainly higher than that of Douglas Brass. He said that our withdrawal from Vietnam precipitately and before stability has been achieved by the South Vietnamese Government would almost certainly lead to the murder of 3 million people. Now,  Senator O'Byrne  and his supporters are apparently unconcerned by that estimate. They are unconcerned by the fact that an expert on this subject would make one of the most fantastic - on the face of it - forecasts of what might happen that one would ever expect to read. But one finds that his estimate is supported by fact. The facts are plain for people to see if they have a look at what happened during the Tet offensive. 
We have heard a lot about the use of napalm and about the use of weapons upon the North Vietnamese or Vietcong armies. Have we heard anything from the other side about the use of brutality and the use of weapons upon the South Vietnamese civilians when the North Vietnamese and Vietcong had the opportunity to do so during the Tet offensive? Have we heard anything about the graves of Hue from the other side and if not, why not? Because they have no answer to it, because they know as well as I know that the net result of our immediate and precipitate withdrawal from South Vietnam would be -wholesale slaughter as took place during the Tet offensive of 1968. They know that this would lead to the murder of innocent citizens but they are not concerned about that, provided they can achieve their objective of an immediate withdrawal and a cessation of the fighting power of the South Vietnamese to support a system of control which will bring back stability to that poor benighted area. 
May the day never dawn when we see a successful moratorium campaign achieving its objective of bringing an immediate withdrawal of the troops from Vietnam and leaving the people there to be slaughtered by the million. I am appalled to think that people who do not go there, who do not find out what is going on there and who do not wish to know what is going on there should suggest a policy which will undoubtedly lead to the wholesale slaughter of many people. Let us look at the basic situation which they have adopted. They have adopted an opposition to the theory known as the domino theory. Where does the domino theory stand now? Just have a look at Laos. Just have a look at Cambodia. Just ask any person in South East Asia whether he now believes in the domino theory, whether or not he had any doubts about it before. I think the Labor Party policy in Vietnam stands more roundly and soundly condemned now than it ever has during the history of this unfortunate war. 
That interjection shows the complete ignorance of  Senator Mulvihill  in this situation. If the honourable senator went to Vietnam and saw the way in which those people have made a magnificent effort in recovering their country from destruction and foreign control by the North Vietnamese, and from the control of the disruptive elements in the community which are attacking the lawfully elected Government, he would know that of the more than 1 million troops which the South Vietnamese now have a very large number have been recruited and trained since the Tet offensive. 
There is one big change which has not been recognised by the Labor Party in relation to South Vietnam. I refer to the change which came over that country after the horrors of the Tet offensive and the slaughter which took place at that time when the Communists had a chance to slaughter the citizens of South Vietnam. That is why the South Vietnamese Army is now strong; that is why Victnamisation is now possible; and that is what  Senator Mulvihill  would find out if he took the trouble to go there.  Senator O'Byrne  said something which was alarming, although I do not think he meant it when he said that what we are doing in South Vietnam is the same as the Fascists in Nazi Germany did to the Jews. In other words, he was saying that our young Australians are behaving in the way in which the Germans behaved in the worst stages of the 1930s and the 1940s- that they are deliberately setting out to murder and expunge from the earth a race of people. He is saying that young Australians have gone to Vietnam to set about the murder of the people there regardless of whether they are military personnel or civilians.  Senator O'Byrne  said that what we are doing there is what the Fascists in Nazi Germany did to the Jews. If the honourable senator believes that that is happening in Vietnam he must believe that it is being carried out by our own troops. This is the only logical extension of the statement which he made and he cannot escape from it unless he is prepared to withdrawn it. It was an incredible statement. It was the most disgusting slight upon the finest body of young men that it has ever been my privilege to see. 
If  Senator O'Byrne  says that he did not mean that, I am prepared to accept that. If the honourable senator is prepared to say that he did not mean what I heard him say I am quite prepared to accept his withdrawal because I would hate to think that any person in this chamber or in the community would make such statements or hold such beliefs. I am delighted to find that  Senator O'Byrne  immediately repudiates the construction which was the only construction that I thought was available to the words which he in fact used. But I accept completely his withdrawal and I am very glad to hear it. 
I am concerned not with name calling but with the preservation of peace in our community as well as peace in other parts of the world. I do not see that  a  call to anarchy and a call leading to the probability - not just the possibility, but the probability - of violence in Australia on 8th, 9th and 10th May can achieve anything towards world peace or anything towards peace in our community. I can only ask that people consider and reconsider anything which could lead to violence during that time. 
If  Senator Georges  will close his mouth for a short time and think with his head we could all proceed. I can only hope that honourable senators opposite who do earnestly and firmly believe that there will be no violence and who believe that every step should be taken to ensure that there will be no violence at this period will take every possible step to ensure that the people whom they have brought together and incited to the action of dislocating the community will be guided from taking any action which could result in violence, the loss of life and the destruction of property. 
By way of preface to my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate 1 refer to an answer he gave a short time ago in which he indicated that there was some fear of violence in the conduct of the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign. It was alleged by Opposition interjection that that was an untruth. Is he aware that a meeting held at Richmond Town Hall, Victoria, on 2nd February 1970 to discuss the Moratorium Campaign a motion was carried by 102 votes to 86 to remove from the Moratorium Campaign policy statement the wordsthat all actions taken be of a peaceful and nonviolent nature'? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Works. I ask: What progress has been made in the development of plans for a civic centre for Federal, State and local government offices in Launceston? Is this most desirable and worthy project being delayed in any way by any Jack of support on the part of the Federal Government? 
It is pleasing to know that the Bill which has been introduced by the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright),  who represents the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  in this chamber is supported in basic terms by the Australian Labor Party and the Australian Democratic Labor Party. I also support it in general terms, although I have certain reservations which I shall outline in due course. I would like to adopt the comments which have been made, without going into length and repeating them, in relation to the services provided by the Parliamentary Draftsman. The problems which he and his staff experience and the need to do something about them is indicated by the fact that this legislation is necessary. The Bill is a step along the road to overcoming some of the problems which have been experienced. But I do wish to emphasise that in my view it is only stage I. There are other steps which will have to be taken to assist in the provision of a greater number of persons suitably qualified to carry out this task so that legislation which is of an increasingly complex nature will noi be confused by haste in trying to keep up with the pressure or, alternatively, delayed because of the care and responsibility of the parliamentary draftsmen. 
The Bill is, as 1 think has been said by every  speaker  on it in this chamber as well as in the other place, a measure upon which the Attorney-General is to be complimented. It is one of the first measures he has introduced since becoming Attorney-General. It is a measure which has perhaps been needed for some years. The Bill should certainly help to overcome well recognised problems. 1 note that the Attorney-General said in the other place when the Bill was being debated:   . . I do not want to take all, or even Hie major part, of the credit for this measure because when I assumed this office the Prime Minister impressed upon me that one of his first concerns in the Held of parliamentary reform was that something be done to improve the situation in regard lo parliamentary drafting. 
So it can, 1 think, be said to be to the credit of not only the Attorney-General, but also the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  that this matter has at this early stage of the sessional period come before us. 
Taking this matter as being stage 1. I would like to go on and comment for a moment about some of the other things which I think could be done. It is interesting to see that there is a general consensus on some of the steps which could be taken. The first I would like to mention is the provision of scholarships, directly or indirectly by the Government to encourage the study necessary to train as a parliamentary draftsman. If such scholarships were available this might encourage students at law school to specialise in this field. If they were prepared to specialise in the field one could imagine that after a period the general build up in the numbers would have its own effect on encouraging a greater number still to come forward. It is the sort of thing about which in law school I as a student heard nothing whatsoever. One received a little bit of tuition, perhaps, in relation to interpretation of statutes but no reference at all to the aspect of parliamentary drafting. I am at the moment not clear as to whether it should be both in an undergraduate stage and in a post-graduate stage. It may well be that it should be referred to an the undergraduate stage but that any scholarship should be provided at a post-graduate stage. 
Alternatively, if it is at an undergraduate stage the system which is applied in relation to Education Departments, amongst others, which grant scholarships in return for a bonded period of service may be worthy of consideration in relation to obtaining sufficient numbers to staff the Office of Parliamentary Counsel. The stirring of an interest in and an understanding of this field is, I believe, one of the essential steps if we are to encourage a sufficient number of lawyers to enter the field. It is well known that that which is strange to one is always likely to be put aside because most people are more likely to become enthused by and keen to undertake work in areas with which they are more familiar. Certainly if any law students are familiar at the end of their courses with the problem of the work of a parliamentary draftsman they are very few and far between. 
I notice that  Mr Whitlam,  the Leader of the Opposition in another place, said that in many law schools in the United States there is a post-graduate course in legislative drafting. I would hope that the AttorneyGeneral will take steps to encourage the law societies and the universities to give consideration to this matter. If the Attorney-General is interested in giving some further consideration to this matter perhaps it would be of interest to him to know that on 9th May next there will be a meeting in Melbourne of the chief executives of all the law societies of Australia. A number of matters including legal education are discussed at these conferences which are held every year. It would still be possible, I imagine, to have the agenda at this forthcoming one include some reference to this matter, if the AttorneyGeneral thought that he would like to have the law societies give consideration to it. It would certainly be helped if it had the absolute support of the law societies which are well represented on the council of every university and on the faculty of law within those universities. So I suggest that some consideration be given to this as a matter of some urgency because of that impending meeting. 
Another matter that may well be considered at the same time by the AttorneyGeneral is the extent to which he might be interested in promoting not only in this field but also in the general field of legal education, the types of courses which have been recently introduced with the assistance of the law society and its members, the University of Tasmania and the College of Advanced Education in relation to what are called - for a short term - 'How to do it' courses. The legal practice course, which is a post-graduate course in the practical work likely to be encountered by a lawyer in practice, has successfully been undertaken for the first time in Tasmania. This was started last February. It may well be that a course in parliamentary drafting would be appropriate to be included in a legal practice course conducted, as this one has been, on a post-graduate basis during the period of articles of graduands in law from a university. 
The next matter to which I wish to refer is one which has concerned me for some time and I think it is perhaps appropriate to mention it now. That is the question of a reprint of the statutes. We now have 20 years of annual volumes since the last reprint. The complication which is experienced by people who wish to check statutes is always greater when many years have passed since a consolidation. May I simply say that I hope that the reformation, insofar as this Bill will constitute a reformation, of the Parliamentary Draftsman's office, will enable before long the work necessary to produce an up to date reprint. Another matter which was mentioned by  Senator Murphy  earlier today was that it should be possible for members and senators other than the Executive to have access to such parliamentary drafting services as are available and that this should be on a confidential basis. It would seem to me to be a matter which is basic to the role of any member of the Parliament that if he wishes he should be able lo obtain such assistance on a confidential basis. I would entirely support what  Senator Murphy  has said. In whatever way is possible within the context of the arrangement which the Attorney-General wishes to obtain in the Parliamentary Draftsman's office a back bench member on either side of the Senate should be able to obtain confidential assistance in the preparation of any legislation. 
In the House of Representatives debate upon this matter a number of speakers referred to the question of junior officers and the fact that the Bill does not take them out of the ambit of the Public Service Board. I presume that this has been considered by the Attorney-General when preparing the general form of this legislation but 1 would be interested to hear a comment by the Minister here as to that matter. I take it that it is considered to be not desirable, for certain reasons, to extend the general provisions of the Bill to more than just the number of officers referred to in the Bill. 
Yes. I wish to refer to a provision in the Bill and to foreshadow what I propose to do when the Bill reaches the Committee stage. Clause 6 provides: 
The First Parliamentary Counsel and the Second Parliamentary Counsel shall be paid salary al such respective rates, and annual allowances if any at such respective rates as are prescribed. 
As  Senator Murphy  said, this means that the salaries and annual allowances wilt be subject to the scrutiny of Parliament through the prescription by regulation of the amounts which are to be paid. In passing 1 draw attention to the fact that clause 17 as at present drafted states: 
The Governor-General may make regulations, not inconsistent with this Act, prescribing all matters required or permitted by this Act to be prescribed, or necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this Act. 
It is clear that in relation to salaries and annual allowances prescription will be by regulation and it will be up to the Regulations and Ordinances Committee of the 
Senate to scrutinise them and, if necessary, to make such recommendations to this chamber as to the Committee seem proper. 
 Senator Wright  observes that the Committee would not have that responsibility. 
I accept the suggestion without debating it in any way, because the point 1 wish to make really concerns sub-clause 2 of clause 6, which provides: 
The First Parliamentary Counsel and the Second Parliamentary Counsel shall be paid such other allowances as the Attorney-General determines. 
We have discussed many times in this chamber the granting to any Minister of an absolute discretion as to the payment of salaries or allowances. 
I am referring to the Bill before us, which was amended ki .the House of Representatives upon the motion of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  1 direct the honourable senator's attention to page 1393 of Hansard of Tuesday 21 April of the House of Representatives. 
Yes. This particular provision was incorporated in the Bill which we are now debating. It is this part of the amendment which conerns me because, as 1 was saying, this point has been debated on a great many occasions in relation lo a wide variety of situations in which the Senate has objected to granting to a Minister an absolute discretion as to the payment of salaries or allowances. It seems to me to be quite wrong that an unbridled discretion should be given to a Minister to act as he sees fit in the payment of allowances. One does not for one moment say that any particular Minister at any particular time would be guilty of any type of misconduct, but the way is left open for. the payment of allowances without the scrutiny of Parliament, or even without Parliament's having any direct knowledge of the situation. Parliament would be forced to seek that knowledge by questioning. 
No, it does not. Clause 17 provides that the Governor-General may make regulations not inconsistent with the Act, prescribing all the matters required or permitted to be prescribed. This is the point 1 want to make. I wish to amend sub-clause 2 of clause 6 to provide that allowances other than annual allowances shall be as prescribed. This would mean that they would come within clause 17 and would be prescribed by regulation, as is the case with respect to sub-clause 1 of clause 6. At this stage 1 simply foreshadow that at the Committee stage of the debate I shall be moving an amendment seeking to have sub-clause 2 of clause 6 deleted. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Sir Magnus Cormack)  - I do not wish to interrupt you, but I think I should tell you that you are not compelled to give the details now of your foreshadowed amendment. 
Thank you,  Sir. Perhaps  I should say that in general terms I will be seeking deletion of the absolute discretion given to the Attorney-General, and that in its place there be inserted a requirement that allowances be as prescribed. This will mean that the amounts to be paid will be subject to the scrutiny of the Parliament and will be, I believe, in accordance with the often expressed wish of the Senate that such matters should be within its scrutiny. It is possible that some honourable senators on either side of the chamber may wish to go further. 

 Senator Byrne indicated earlier that the position of the Auditor-General is that he has his salary prescribed within the Act itself, by statute and not by regulation. It may be that  Senator Byrne  considers that the amendment I shall propose will not go far enough and that the actual allowance should be prescribed by statute. Other honourable senators may not think it necessary to go that far. However, one way or the other it should be subject to the scrutiny of the Parliament and I believe that sufficient scrutiny would be exercised if it were done by regulation. 
I have listened with interest to the debate. It is of great concern to me that Tasmania should be provided with adequate shipping services. Therefore in general principle I agree with the suggestion that we take any opportunity to debate this subject and to bring to it considered thought. For that reason 1 feel that it is unfortunate, as  Senator Marriott  has stated previously, that this motion has been brought on at very short notice. Since we were given notice of it I have been trying to prepare some figures in relation to the matters specifically raised but I have not been able to complete them. Let me deal with those that I could get together. 
I gained the impression from  Senator Wriedt  that containerisation concerned him most. I believe that this has to be looked at in its true perspective. We must consider to what extent Tasmanian exports or imports are suitable for containerisation. I have been trying to calculate figures in relation to that aspect during the short time that the debate has been proceeding. I do not have final figures so I will have to rely upon quotations from letters which I have received from the Marine Board of Burnie and the Marine Board of Hobart. Being concerned about this matter I wrote last year to each of the Marine Boards operating in the principal ports in Tasmania to ascertain the percentage of their cargoes which were suitable for containers, the percentage of their cargoes which were more suitable for unitising and the percentage of their cargoes which were suitable for other forms of export shipping. I was interested to receive a letter from  Mr H.  Miller, Secretary of the Marine Board of Burnie, in which he said, amongst other things: 
Two points that must be kept in mind with regard to cargoes out of Burnie are that none arc seasonal to any great degree, and although the analysis is shown in countries the goods are destined to a number of ports within those countries. Some ships for South East Asia load for as many as 12 ports per trip and in most cases the same applies to a lesser degree to other countries. 
When these points are considered- 
He had mentioned earlier in his letter a number of points which 1 will not go through in detail -  in relation to the quantities of the various items, the case for containerisation does not appear to be in favour thereof. 
Later in his letter he said: 
I  believe the general concensus of local opinion is that unitisation is more satisfactory than containerisation for the reasons already given, and the present tendency in Burnie supports this contention. 
In relation to Hobart I obtained some figures and comments which I thought were of interest. Unfortunately I have not been able to relate those figures precisely to the total exports from Tasmania but the same picture emerges as that in respect of Burnie. I refer only in passing to the comments made to me by the General Manager of the Marine Board of Hobart. He detailed the kinds of cargoes which were suitable for containerisation interstate or overseas. The figures supplied, which relate to cargoes shipped through the port of Hobart during 1968-69, indicate that a considerable percentage - I refer to zinc, bulk petrol, oil, feedstock, motor vehicles and anthracite coal - is not suitable for containerisation. Only a relatively small proportion is suitable for containerisation. One of the principal commodities is frozen meat. In his letter to me the General Manager of the Marine Board of Hobart stated in part: 
Whether southern Tasmania's principal overseas export of 200.000 tons annually of fresh fruit, which is shipped through the port of Hobart between the months of March and June, will eventually be shipped by containers is at present problematical. However, should certain problems surrounding refrigeration be overcome, then it is felt that there are definite possibilities of the Tasmanian fruit crop being exported in containers. 
It would make a great difference to the importance of containerisation if suitable refrigeration facilities could be provided, thus enabling fruit crops to be exported in that way. I think it is important also to consider other things that have happened since containerisation came into operation. Let me refer to the fruit crop. In 1 967 some 29 ships took 3.4 million bushels from Hobart and Port Huon. In 1968 some 33 ships took 4.4 million bushels and in 1969, the year in which containerisation was introduced, 30 ships took 4.1 million bushels of Tasmanian fruit from Hobart and Port Huon. No marked problem appears from those figures. When one bears in mind that there has been a drop in freight charges as a result of the introduction of containers - I am assured that it is 2% in respect of refrigerated cargo and 4% in respect of general cargo - it becomes apparent that some advantages, as well as possible some dangers and disadvantages,  are  accruing to Tasmanian shippers. 
The other matter which makes it rather peculiar that  Senator Wriedt  should have proposed this motion today is that today happens to be the day on which the Examiner' newspaper in Launceston carries the following headline: 
Exporters assured of regular service. 
Tas. to link with C-ships. 
Feeder port is next step. 
The text of the article reads: 
Tasmania is expected to be linked with the fast, fortnighly international container shipping system with the next two or three months. 
This major shipping breakthrough was announced yesterday by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Bessel). 
Tasmanian exporters will pay no more than they do now to ship their goods overseas in irregular and infrequent conventional cargo vessels. 
The extra cost of sending a 20-ton container across Bass Strait to Melbourne - about$200 - will be absorbed into the new, Australia-wide equalised freight rates for next season. 
So, in  the light  of that statement which 1 presume is correctly reported in a responsible newspaper. I think we can see that the concern of  Senator Wriedt  is perhaps illfounded. 
If we look at the history of  the  matter  we  find that the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  has been at great pains for a considerable time to do everything that he could to ensure that Tasmania was protected adequately in relation to this matter. As recently as last Saturday the Minister's remarks were reported from London, where he then was. This report from the 'Examiner' of 2nd May reads: 
The Australian Government wanted to ensure that the smaller ports around Australia's coast benefited from containerisation, the Australian Shipping and Transport Minister  (Mr Sinclair)  said yesterday. 
He said the Government wanted to ensure there was an adequacy of movement of container vessels, not only to the major Australian ports but also to the smaller ports such as those of Tasmania and Portland. Victoria, and Albany, Western Australia. 
I mention this simply because it shows that, as recently as last Saturday, the Minister who was criticised by  Senator Wriedt  has shown his interest in the matter and that he did this while he was in London. 
Because of the necessary brevity which one must observe in speaking in a discussion of a matter of public importance I puss now to interstate shipping as opposed to overseas container shipping. Several matters of concern have arisen here. Perhaps the first matter is the delays in the construction of new ships which were ordered by the Australian National Line and which were due to come into service long, long before they were finished. There were a number of reasons for the delays, not the least of which, I understand, was industrial trouble. This certainly cannot be laid at the feel of the Minister for Shipping and Transport nor can it be laid at the feet of the ANL. They cannot be blamed because industrial trouble held up the building of those ships, delaying their introduction into the shipping services of the ANL around the Australian coast. This introduction would have released to Tasmaniantrade greater shipping space. 
The ANL was not the employer of the people who were striking in relation to the construction ofthese ships. That is why 1 say that I do not think that in that respect this industrial trouble can can be blamed on the ANL. The industrial trouble was between Evans Deakin. the shipyard employer which was building the ships - I am not certain that that was the firm involved - and the employees working in the shipyards. The one problem which could be blamed on the ANL from  Senator Cavanagh's  point of view, although 1 do not say that we should blame it. is the unfortunate situation that has arisen to create much of the mayhem, delays and interruptions to Tasmanian traffic, that is, the industrial trouble which has been experienced with the Empress of Australia', the 'Princess of Tasmania' and the 'Australian Trader'. I have here a' list of the number of cancelled sailings and the number of delayed sailings during the 12 months proceeding February of this year. This is a long list. Rather than take  up the time of the Senate by reading it, with the concurrence of honourable senators I incorporate the list in Hansard. It reads: 
DISRUPTIONS TO TRANS-BASS STRAIT FERRIES 
 EMPRESS OF AUSTRALIA' 
Cancelled Sailings - 19 June, 21 June, 24 June, 26 June, 28 June, 30 June. 
Delayed Sailings - 23 May, 25 May. 5 August, 8 August, 10 August, 12 August, 15 August, 17 August, 15 October, 16 October, 29 October, 31 October, 2 November, 4 November, 7 November, 9 November, 11 November, 13 November, 15 November, 17 November, 20 November, 22 November, 25 November, 27 November, 29 November,  1  December, 4 December, 6 December, 18 December, 20 December. 
PRINCESS OF TASMANIA' 
Cancelled Sailings - 19 May, 20 May, 23 May, 24 May, 18 June, 19 June, 21 July, 22 July, 25 November, 26 November. 
Delayed Sailings - 16 May, 17 May. 
AUSTRALIAN TRADER' 
Cancelled Sailings- 20 July, 21 July, 25 November, 26 November. 
Delayed Sailings - 1 July, 2 July. 3 July. 4 July. 
Undoubtedly, the delayed and cancelled sailings, as shown in that list, had a twofold effect upon Tasmania. First, they created an interruption to the export and import by Tasmanian business people of their goods. They created an interruption to the Tasmanian tourist industry. Very often the cost of such an interruption can never be recovered. Further than that, these cancelled and delayed sailings have had the effect of increasing the cost of operation of the Australian National Line which in effect finishes up facing the likelihood of increasing freight rates. 
In this respect I wish to quote from a letter that I received from the Minister for Shipping and Transport. It is dated 14th April 1970. Again, 1 had written to the Minister because I was concerned about the matter of shipping to Tasmania. In his letter, the Minister stated: 
However the ability of the Australian National Line to operate competitively with aircraft as a passenger carrier depends on the reliability and capability of the passenger cargo vessels it operates. If future industrial troubles cause disruptions to timetables the vessels of the Line may well be forced to again carry cargo only with consequential detrimental effects to the reliability of the service in the eyes of potential passengers. 
It is, I believe, most unfortunate that Tasmania should be on the receiving end of such a great degree of industrial trouble and that the Tasmanian people themselves should have to pay the penalty for something which has nothing to do with them. 
In criticism of the Hobart Marine Board  Senator Wriedt  said something which 1 think was unfair and which I would like to correct. He said that the Board had put forward a fanciful - he used some other word with a similar meaning - proposal in relation to the development of a container port in the Huon area. Perhaps what  Senator Wriedt  does not realise is that that proposal was put forward in response to a request from the container shipping companies which had set out certain specifications as to what sort of port they wanted. As 1 understand the situation, the only place in Tasmania which came within the specifications required was this area. It was put forward on the basis of being a reply to the request. The request was not limited to Tasmania but was made Australia-wide. 
 This was the reply furnished by the Hobart Marine Board in response to that request. 
I do not understand one other matter with which  Senator Wriedt  dealt. Perhaps it could so with some explanation. He said that the volume of Tasmanian trade is small and that a lot of containers must be brought empty to Tasmania. I do not understand that statement because, looking at the figures as quickly as I could, I saw that the value of imports was$220m and that the value of exports was $233m. These are on tables comparable with the figures for interstate exports not overseas exports. They are the figures for the financial year 1967-68. I took it that the honourable senator was talking about interstate trade at that time. It does seem to me that there is a relativity there which would make the proposition that he put forward untenable. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
Sitting suspended from 5.43 to 8 p.m. 

 Senator O'BYRNE (Tasmania) [8.0J- At the suspension of the sitting we were debating an urgency motion moved by  Senator Wriedt  concerning shipping services to Tasmania. My colleague referred particularly to the omission of Tasmania from the Australian overseas container service and to the inadequate shipping space and irregularity of schedules. I believe that in raising this matter  Senator Wriedt  has done a good service to the Senate and to Tasmania, particularly as all Tasmanian senators who have already made their contributions have agreed on its importance. Not only has there been agreement that a serious situation is facing Tasmania in the immediate future, but there has also been agreement as to the long range prospects. 
Honourable senators opposite have shown a tendency to try to defend the present situation by saying that the Commonwealth cannot be blamed or that we should place the blame on the Australian National Line for not having established closer consultation with the Tasmanian Government and with the shippers and manufacturers who will be exporting under the new shipping setup. The inadequacy of shipping services for Tasmania has been a long-standing problem. The new technique of containerisation of cargoes could properly be described as a revolution which may have a greater impact, on Tasmania than on any other part of Australia. lt is fairly well known that Tasmania is the most decentralised of the States. Our population centres are scattered; only 37% of the Tasmanian population is located in the capita) of Hobart, whereas 68% of the Victorian population is concentrated in Melbourne. The relationship is obvious between the density of the population and the need of Tasmania for special treatment in respect of shipping. Over the years it has been the policy of Tasmanian governments to decentralise as much as possible. The major centres of population are located close to the four main ports. Hobart is the traditional deep water port and the longest established port in Tasmania. The port of Launceston has been recently developed at Bell Bay and at Beauty Point. Burnie and Devonport are old ports historically but of relatively new development. All these ports are possible outlets for Tasmania's production, but it has not been possible to get from the Commonwealth any specific advice about unity amongst the Tasmanian centres as to which port should be used eventually as a container port or a marshalling port for Tasmanian containerised cargo. I cannot see how the economy of Tasmania would ever be able to sustain the inevitable added costs of sending Tasmanian produce through our ports, having it unloaded again at one of the main container ports on the mainland and then being consigned overseas, unless massive support - I use the word 'massive' advisedly - was given by the Commonwealth, either as a subsidy to the Australian National Line which probably will have the main responsibility of providing a feeder service, or to Tasmanian exporters. 
About 55% of Tasmania's production is exported. The big problem is that about 92% of Tasmanian exports are transported by sea, and only about 8% by air. This immediately places Tasmania at a disadvantage when compared with the other States which have alternative transport by road and rail and by the major air services. Comparatively speaking Tasmanians are faced with shorter hauls at greater cost. The seriousness of the situation' is illustrated by the special problems that exist in Tasmania. Our industries are small, the overwhelming majority of businesses having fewer than 20 employees, but they are important to the Tasmanian economy. Tasmania's population is below 400,000. The domestic market has the potential equal to only' one of Melbourne's smaller suburbs. Our smaller industries do not have a sufficiently large domestic market and must look to exports to survive. We must therefore try to resolve our shipping problems. An increase of only lc per lb in freight can mean the difference between profit and loss to some Tasmanian industries. 1 think that illustrates how deeply these special shipping factors can influence the Tasmanian economy.  
If the Australian National Line is given the responsibility of transporting Tasmanian freight to the mainland container ports some arrangement will have to be made so that Tasmanians will know with certainty what assistance is to be given in the form of direct reimbursement to the ANL in order to avoid freight increases. This afternoon  Senator Rae  referred to an article in today's edition of the Launceston 'Examiner'. This article needs to be read in ils proper context. I believe that  Senator Rae  stated only half a case. The article states: 
Tasmania is expected to be linked with the fast, fortnightly international container shipping system within the next 2 or 3 months. This major shipping breakthrough was announced yesterday by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Bessell).  Tasmanian exporters will pay no more than they do now to ship their goods overseas in irregular and infrequent conventional cargo vessels. 
The article also states, although  Senator Rae  did not quote this part: 
It is not yet clear exactly what costs Tasmanian exporters will face when the new service is introduced in July or August. This will be settled by negotiations over the next 2 months. 
So that on the one hand there is the prospect for Tasmania of a fast fortnightly international container shipping service, but on the other hand, it could be at a cost that would involve grave repercussions for Tasmanian exporters. In the 'Mercury' of today's date appears an announcement that a review of freight rates between Australia and Europe appears to be unavoidable. This was announced by the shipping companies who said that since rates were reduced in 1968 costs generally had increased substantially. 1 should like to comment that the consumer in Tasmania could never have seen any advantage from a reduction in freight rales since 1968 because the saving was immediately absorbed by other increases in the cost of commodities. It is imperative that this matter be watched very closely when a review of freight rates is made and that due regard is taken of the impact that the review could have on Tasmania's economy as compared with the situation in other parts of the Commonwealth. 
In making this announcement the shipping companies argued that a review was imperative, and they added that they wanted an agreement with the Australia to Europe Shippers Association on the method. The report continues: 
Without prejudice to its view that the present rates be extended to the 1970-71 season, the AESA agreed to a review by the accountants representing shippers and shipping companies to the voyage results in the trade for 1968 and 1969. 
So it can be seen from this that undoubtedly there will be an increase in the cost of shipping, despite the announcement that has been made about container cargo going to Europe this winter. . 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport aware that complaints have appeared in the Press, including the 3rd May edition of the Sydney 'Sunday Telegraph', with reference to the uncontrolled dumping of rubbish by railway staff from the IndianPacific Express? Will the Minister investigate whether the allegations are well founded and, if they are, take appropriate action to prevent the view of passengers on that train becoming one of empty bottles and cans and other rubbish and prevent the Nullarbor Plain becoming a vast rubbish tip? 
-! want to reply very briefly to  Senator Georges  because for the first time we have had an attempt to support or to make a case for what is a foundation of many of the statements that we have heard many times in this place from  Senator Georges  and other people on his side of the chamber, such as that the war in Vietnam is an illegal war and that the intervention is unlawful. But 1 thought that it was interesting and perhaps worthy of note that to support his case he quoted, and he quoted the authority available apparently to him to support the case. 
He quoted in support of his case an article that he said was written by a Professor R. A. Falk of the United States. He also mentioned the names of some nine lawyers in the United States. Taking a wild stab at how many lawyers there might be in that country, I suppose that one could say 50,000 or perhaps 75,000; I do not know. But, certainly if, on a population ratio basis, it is something similar to the Australian situation, it would be in that region. I suppose that it would not be difficult to find perhaps nine or ten of them who might support the case that  Senator Georges  wishes to put forward. 
I believe it is interesting that the particular one whom  Senator Georges  quoted - R. A. Falk - is a young man of some eminence in the anti-war movement and an author who has displayed his, perhaps, interest in this subject by writing on topics such as 'Security Through Disarmament' - hardly a topic for a disinterested lawyer; a lawyer interested only in the legal aspects of this problem. I should have thought that it displays an interest that is more towards another topic on which he wrote, namely, Law, War and Morality in the Contemporary World'. He has displayed over quite  a  considerable period of time his lack of impartiality in relation to this matter and, I would have thought, would not bc an appropriate authority to quote in support of a case if it was an overwhelming case. 
What arguments did  Senator Georges  put forward so that they could be answered? As I understand his speech, he put forward the names of R. A. Falk and about nine other people, but no arguments. Therefore, there is nothing to which I can reply. I simply say that that impartial or otherwise authority was the only authority to which he referred. 
Can the Minister for Air indicate how active are the active reserve of the Royal Australian Air Force and also the Citizen Air Force? Are any steps taken by the RAAF to keep in contact with the members of the reserve and to encourage their continued interest in the RAAF? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs. Was the recent Djakarta conference on Cambodia the first occasion on which Japan has participated in endeavouring to settle in a peaceful manner the troubles of the South East Asian area? Does the Minister believe that it would assist such peaceful settlement if other nations bordering on the Pacific were to indicate a preparedness to exert diplomatic pressure towards such a peaceful settlement? 
My question, which is further to a question asked earlier this afternoon by  Senator Wriedt,  is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. I ask: Has the Minister seen a statement published in the Melbourne 'Sun' of today's date, and also in Tasmanian newspapers, that Northern Woodchip Pty Ltd will proceed with the expenditure of $1.5m on a wood chip plant near Bell Bay in Tasmania? Can he indicate whether it is correct, as published in the Melbourne 'Sun' of today's date, that the Japanese buyers have agreed to pay $27 a ton dry unit; that is 2,400 lb of chips? Further, does this indicate that there is any necessity for the Commonwealth Government to give further assistance towards the negotiation of a satisfactory contract to enable the industry to get under way in Tasmania? 
1 just wish to pursue a little further, if I may, the matter which has been taking the attention of the Senate, namely, the position of ophthalmologists and optometrists in the health scheme. What I would like to say to the Minister is that I can well understand those whose attitude is, firstly, that this is a complex problem; secondly, that it needs consideration; and thirdly, that perhaps the major benefits of the scheme should not be held up whilst this one is sorted out. But what I do hope will happen and what I do seriously suggest should happen is that at the first possible opportunity something in the nature of a White Paper should be published by the Minister in relation to this matter. We should not have to wait for 6 months or more until a review is to take place and then be inundated with a confusing series of submissions and suggestions from various persons concerned. This White Paper should show what the result of the further consideration is and what attitude will be adopted or is likely to be adopted by the Minister when an amendment is to be brought forward, so that we may have the opportunity of consulting with the people who are intimately concerned with this and endeavour to inform ourselves about it and to reach a consensus. This should be done at a reasonable time before the matter is debated in the Senate so we are not trying to do all this immediately beforehand. If that suggestion could bc taken up I am sure it would meet a number of the queries and reservations held by many of us at this time about this aspect of the scheme. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs. Has the Minister seen recent reports of a statement by the Secretary-General of the United Nations advocating the establishment of a permanent United Nations police force to enforce orders of the International Court of Justice and generally to enable the United Nations to become more effective as a peace and law keeping body? Can he indicate whether Australia supports the general principle of the establishment of such a police force and, if so, whether it would contribute personnel to such a police force? 
 Senator Turnbull  mentioned two separate things, or so it seemed to me. He referred to item 8029 and then he referred to melonoplasty which is item 8037. It may be that I am confused. It may be that he said it by mistake but I am not following what he is talking about at the moment. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. By way of brief preface 1 refer to a question which 1 asked a short while ago  relatng  to the dumping of rubbish on the Nullarbor Plain from the Indian-Pacific Express. I ask: Has the Minister now any further information regarding the matter? If so, can he inform the Senate of it? 
There is one further consideration on which I should like to ask either the Minister or  Senator Murphy  to comment. I take a little further, if 1 may. the argument put by the Minister in relation lo prescribing salaries, by regulation, for some of the lesser officers. I ask whether perhaps it is not desirable that there should be more sporadic alterations to the salaries of officers in this position, rather than having alterations of salaries coming all at the one time, as will happen if they are contained in a general salaries Bill. I am by no means certain that this is a consideration which should weigh heavily. However. I think it is perhaps one to which some attention could be given, and I would be interested to hear any comments that may be made about it. 

 Senator WRIGHT (Tasmania- Minister for Works) 1.4. 12]  -  I am indebted to  Senator Rae  for drawing attention to this matter. I think it would be an advantage not to have all these matters coming in in one block. I should think that that would preclude a purposeful consideration by the Parliament and it would not allow the Government to give proper consideration to the salaries of these officers when the occasion warrants it. 
 It seems to me that one way to overcome  Senator Murphy's  objection, that is that we should ensure that the principle of the Senate as observed on many occasions is fully implemented, would be for the appointment of a further small committee of the Senate which could have these matters placed before it as and when they come forward. One group of specialists could have the function to correlate these regulations as and when they come forward. The people in that group would be iti a much belter position to do the correlation. They could then report to the Senate and the report could be debated if the Senate s:iw fit. lt would seem to me that the problems which  Senator Murphy  and  Senator Wright  have raised would be overcome if a principle such as I have suggested were introduced. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 9 to 29  -  by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
I wish to raise a small point which has just occurred to me. Clause 20 (5.) states: 
For the purposes of this section, a member acting in the office of another member shall be deemed to be absent. 
This is after there has been provision earlier in the clause for a member to be appointed to the office of another member during a vacancy. It would seem to me that this will mean that unless under clause 15 (1.) (b) leave of the Minister is given we could have a situation where a member who is deemed to be absent falls within clause 15(l.)(b) and finds himself liable to have his. appointment terminated. It would simplify things if we added at the end of clause 20 (5.) with the consent of the Minister'. In other words, it would read: 
For the purposes of this section, a member acting in the office of another member shall be deemed to be absent with the consent of the Minister. 
This will obviate the necessity of people remembering to ensure that the Minister's leave is given at any time when the provisions of clause 20 are exercised. It is only a very small point, but it is the sort of thing which cuts down a little bit of administrative detail and may remove the possibility of an unfortunate result from an oversight. I therefore move: 
At the end of sub-clause (5.) add the words with the consent of the Minister'. 
 I seek a little clarification. In the light of what has been said here tonight I am rather surprised to hear some honourable senators now apparently saying that the allowance of a senator should be equivalent to the allowance of a member representing a country electorate in the House of Representatives, because I well remember the debate which we had in this chamber in November 1968. During that debate the whole tenor of the argument put forward from both sides of the chamber was that there should be parity between the allowance of a senator and the allowance of a member representing a city electorate in the House of Representatives. In fact, there was a motion moved to that effect by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy).  Many honourable senators may recall that eventually a motion which was moved by me - and I well remember it - to increase the allowance of a senator by Si 50 was carried by 31 vo'.es to 16 votes. 
At the time of moving the motion I stated - and no-one disagreed with me - that the object of the motion was not in any way to indicate that the amount of the allowance should be increased by SI 50 or any other figure; it was designed to show that the Senate required parity between the allowance of a senator and the allowance of a member representing a city electorate in the House of Representatives. For procedural reasons we could not obtain parity. Therefore the allowance was increased by $50 as a nominal figure. There was never any argument during that debate - and I have checked through the reports of it - which suggested that the allowance of a senator should be more than the allowance of :i member representing a city electorate. I just want to remind honourable senators that that was the tenor of the debate on that occasion, and the Government has done what we as a majority of the .Senate on that occasion asked it to do. lt ill behoves honourable senators now to criticise the Government which has done exactly what we asked it lo do. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
Was the participation of Japan in the recent conference on Cambodia, held in ihe Indonesian capital, the first occasion in recent years on which that nation has participated in endeavouring to settleChe troubles ofsouth-east Asia in a peaceful manner. 
Would it assist such peaceful settlement if other nations bordering the Pacific area were to indicate preparedness to exert diplomatic pressure towards such a Settlement. 
Bearing in mind the programme which the Senate has 1 shall endeavour to be brief. However some matters which have been raised during this debate need some further comment. I refer first to a remark made by  Senator Dittmer,  a remark which was probably made with goodwill but which, I think, was perhaps the type of overstatement that people can make.  His  statement might have been a little unfair when he said that we know nothing of the sea or the habits of fish in Australia and that very little scientific research has been done into this aspect. The only question that I wish to raise in relation to that remark, if  Senator Dittmer  will allow me to do so, is that State departments of fisheries have over a period of years been conducting a very worthwhile degree of research into various aspects of fisheries. I realise that there is a difference between that type of marine science research and the development which will take place once the Australian Institute of Marine Science gels under way. I believe that the work of that Institute, combined with the research which has already been carried out, should mean thai our total knowledge of the marine environment will bc considerably enhanced. 
The work of the research vessels and research teams which have been engaged on this task for a number of years and which I presume will continue to be engaged, when allied with some of the research work carried out at Townsville, should have a generally beneficial effect for Australia in relation to its marine environment. I trust that there will be sufficient co-operation and co-ordination between the activities of the various persons interested in the development of marine science and that we will not have one group working in one direction and another group working in a completely unrelated direction, with no co-ordination between them and no central body lo correlate information. I hope also that the establishment of the Institute of Marine Science at Townsville, which will be located in tropical waters and which will be primarily concerned with research in tropical waters, will nol be such that the products of training available to various scientists there will be limited to marine biology in tropical areas but will assist in the work being done in other areas. The tropical waters of Australia are not the only areas which need further and greater investigation and research. 
The accusation that there has been no attempt lo set up any sort of training in this field is another rather wide accusation which 1 believe is unjustified. There have been many attempts in various places and a great deal of post graduate work has been done in this field. There was an attempt through a Commonwealth Reconstruction Training Scheme after the 1939-45 war to train people interested in developing the science of fishing and people interested in fishing generally, but unfortunately that course failed through lack of interest, lt may be that not only have governments been at fault, if there has been any fault in relation to a lack of development in this field, but also, perhaps, that there has been fault on the part of people who are intimately concerned with the marine sciences. 
Another matter which has been referred to a number of times is the question of drilling for oil on the Great Barrier Reef. lt was of some significance to hear people saying that drilling on the Reef must stop, that they hoped it would never be continued and that it was a terrible thing. I do not know whether it is a terrible thing. As a member of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution I heard whatever evidence seemed to be available from those who might have been expected to know something about the effects of oil on coral. It seems to me that the amount of research which had been done at that time was very little, and that indicated that oil was not likely to have any effect on the growth of coral. But that was an indication only at that time; it was hot in any way a final conclusion. But it does show the value of research in this field in being able to conclude one way or the other whether a conclusion has been arrived at without an adequate basis. By all means let us plug for proper research into coral; by all means let us have a moratorium on the exploration of the coral areas until such time as the research has been carried out. But to conclude, as  Senator Keeffe  did, that at no time could we ever have any drilling in coral areas seems to me to be reaching the conclusion before we have any facts. 
That was perhaps typical of some of the other remarks that he made in his speech. He said that this Australian Institute of Marine Science was a political windfall and that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  was simply taking out of the air something that he thought might help what  Senator Keeffe  described as his flagging political standing, or something to that effect. But this has been an objective of this Government for some time. It is a matter which has been investigated not just immediately before the election. A fairly thorough investigation has been carried out. We have a Prime Minister who, as a former Minister for Education and Science, has an interest in these matters and a sympathy for them. It seems to me to be absolute rubbish to suggest, as  Senator Keeffe  did, that this was purely a matter of political expediency. We have many examples of the genuine interest that has been shown by the Prime Minister of this country in questions of the environment and, in particular, in questions concerning the tropical waters of the Great Barrier Reef. 
One example, which I was going on to quote and which I will now quote, is that the Government, being interested in the preservation of the environment, moved for and set up committees on air pollution and water pollution, both of which have now produced reports. The second of those committees produced its report today. I believe that those reports, taken together, will assist the Government in reaching some sort of programme in relation to the control of the deterioration and pollution of the environment. To suggest, as  Senator Keeffe  did, that here we have ad hoc-ery at its worst, with no apparent and real interest in the environment, is to make a suggestion that simply is not supported by the facts. 
The committees that were set up were set up with a foresight which has not been obvious in many other fields on the part of the people who have been criticising the Government. The fact that it has not been obvious is shown when one recalls that these committees were set up early in 1968 before the general public had been made as aware as it is now of the problems of the environment and the problems of pollution. It was largely the information that came before the general public by way of the reports and hearings of the Select Committee on Air Pollution and the Select Committee on Water Pollution that gave the stimulus to the already active fears on this subject overseas and brought about the vastly increased interest in this field which is now evident but which was far from evident at the time the Government, acting with due foresight, set up those committees. 
With due foresight, the Government has set up other committees in relation to matters such as the Institute of Marine Science, the preservation of the Great Barrier Reef and other matters which it seems, did not concern the Opposition as early as they concerned the Government. I commend the Government for introducing this Bill. I believe that it will bring to Australia a development and an increase in its knowledge which can only be to its general advantage.I stress that the operation of the Institute will not be limited to the development of marine science in relation to tropical waters, but that its genera) training and general research will be able to assist in the solution of problems and the gaining of knowledge of the science generally in relation to Australia. 
I too support the Bill and oppose the amendment. But in speaking to the Bill I want to make a few remarks, which are not so dissimilar from a number of the remarks made by  Senator Murphy  and other speakers, to show that there is no great difference between the attitudes being adopted. 1 think that it is more a difference in what steps are required to achieve a result. i  believe that the present limit of $15,000 is so unreal as to be urgently in need of amendment. I have felt this way for a sufficient length of time to has-e asked a number of questions, of the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  and of his predecessor, as to when some review and some alteration was going to take place. i  have been informed, that consideration was being given to the question. Now we see the fruits of that consideration. The limit is being increased from  si  5,000 to $30,000, which is a very substantial and highly desirable increase, but  i  think that it can be regarded only as an interim increase, as the Minister pointed out in his second reading speech. As has been mentioned previously, the Minister said: 
If the proposed international conference results in a new convention or protocol on carriers' liability, the Government will consider whether il is appropriate for Australia. to become a parly to il, in which case a similar proposal will bc submitted to the Parliament. 
The important part follows: 
This will also provide an opportunity to review again the domestic limit of liability in the light of what is decided internationally.  i  would be the last to believe that we should in any way hamper the Australian Government's ability and facility to negotiate freely in the international field in relation to this problem. For that reason I believe that it is undesirable to approve  Senator Murphy's  amendment because 1 think the Government should be given the utmost freedom in its negotiations. But as soon as the negotiations have been concluded, I trust - and 1 understand this from what the Minister has said - that this matter is likely to come back before Parliament. In fact, it will come back before Parliament. Then will be an appropriate time for us to give final consideration to the question as to what is the most desirable amount. At the moment $30,000 is better than $15,000. and I am happy that the figure is to be doubled. 1 do not like to do anything which will in any way hamper the Government's position in relation to the international situation which I understand to be complicated. Qantas Airways Ltd is operating in countries such as the United States where the value of awards is very high as opposed to those awarded in the less developed countries where the amount likely to be awarded to an insured person would never be  s  15,000, let alone $30,000 or $52,000. So there is a necessity in an international agreement such as this to consider all the various possibilities of the likely liabilities of the various airlines and to reach something which is a fair compromise. For that reason I do not support  Senator Murphy's  amendment. But I do want to make a few remarks about this problem. 
First of all, we have the situation, which has been discussed by  Senator Murphy  and  Senator Greenwood,  in particular, where the legislation has, since its inception, taken away the common law right to sue for damages for negligence. Where a person can prove negligence in the normal situation he can get judgment for an unlimited amount of damages, and the amount he can recover depends upon whether the person he sues is insured or not or whether he is completely insured or whether he is limited in insurance. But I remind honourable senators that it is not many years past since we achieved the result that in motor car accidents there were not to be limits imposed cn the amount of insurance, awarded. For a long time there were limits on third party insurance, and there were limits on comprehensive insurance in relation to passengers. 
There was the situation a few years ago where a person could obtain an award - to take a figure from the air - of $30,000 for being a paraplegic, but he could not recover that $30,000. The amount that he could recover varied from State to State. It might have been $5,000 or $10,000. So far as 1 know those limits at last have been done away with and people can recover adequate amounts of damages. They can recover from the insurance company the full amount of the. award which is assessed bv the court. But here we have a different situation. We are taking away the right to sue at common law.. Instead we have a situation where a person does not have to prove liability: we only have an assessment of damages. I think it is acceptable that there must be some quid pro quo. I think it is acceptable that where we take away the likely defendant's right to defend an action we must not at the same time impose on him, certainly not of necessity, an unrestricted liability. I think it is not unreasonable to say that we can look at a situation where we take away the right to defend; we can look at it from the point of view of saying that we will impose some ultimate maximum amount which will have to be paid. 
 Thank you for the interjection,  Senator Greenwood.  So far as I know, this question has never been tested. So far as I know, the common opinion amongst the legal profession in Australia is that this is not one which is a good punt, if I can put it that way. It is one which is an argument that could be put in extremis. But there are not many litigants, particularly in view of the fact that the average situation in an aircraft accident is that there are widows to deal with. There are not many widows who for the faint possibility of succeeding in showing that they can bring an action for negligence are going to say, T will bring that action and risk the total costs of that action', as opposed to accepting damages up to the limit which is provided without proof of negligence. I think that whatever the possibilities may be, the reality is that nobody, except in the most exceptional circumstances, is likely to test that question, and the legislation on the face of it does exclude an action for negligence. 
 I only remind the honourable senator of the saying that it was a committee that produced the camel instead of the horse. But even the camel train had its accidents, I understand. Let us have a look for a moment at this question of how real is $30,000 as an absolute maximum, even bearing in mind what I have just said about some quid pro quo for the fact that one does not have to prove negligence. In using the table of present value of economic loss which is published in the Australian Law Journal, we find that $30,000 is the equivalent of the basic wage for 20 years. 
 Yes, which notwithstanding recent events I think is still more real to use for long term purposes than the 6% one recently published. If we have a situation of a widow claiming damages under these provisions, unless she falls into a category of being the widow of someone who was on not much more than the basic wage and who was over 45 years of age, the $30,000 is unreal. One can imagine that the average person who is likely to be injured in an aircraft accident and who has a widow who claims, is likely to be earning a great deal more than the basic wage and may very well be substantially under the age of 45. I believe that$30,000 is so unreal asto require very serious reconsideration at the first possible opportunity; but as 1 said earlier, I accept completely what the Minister has said as to why nothing should be done at this stage. However,  I  want to make these remarks because I believe that the matter is going to be reconsidered and I think it is useful for us to discuss this subject at the moment for the purposes of later reconsideration. 
That may or may not be so. There are many young people who find it very difficult to carry much other insurance, and there is this situation, as I am sure any other lawyer in practice will agree, that the vast majority of people who travel in public transport believe that they are insured and that they can claim. They may not be justified in so believing; mostly they are not justified in so believing in relation to air transport. 
The average person, before undertaking travel by car, rail, air or ship does not read the small print on the ticket to see what the insurance limit is. People understand that there is insurance provided, and they understand that they can claim in those circumstances if they are injured. Sometimes injured persons or the relatives of deceased persons get the greatest shock of their lives when they find out that there is a limit and a relatively low limit on the amount that can be claimed. So there is a duty either to provide a reasonable limit or else to make sure by way of notices, by way of publicity, by way of education, that members of the public do know that it is necessary for them to take out some extra form of insurance. 1 have discussed with various people concerned with the administration of the airlines in Australia the question of the press the button insurance tickets which are available in the United States of America, and it seems that there are many undesirable elements in relation to that type of insurance. It has led to many deaths and is perhaps something that we should try to avoid. 
I know that  Senator Murphy  says that in jest, but unfortunately it is all too true, for this sort of thing has been shown to have happened in a very considerable number of cases where this type of insurance is readily available. 
Whichever way it is. a lot of innocent people are killed as a result. I do not believe that it is desirable to adopt the attitude They can take out insurance, therefore they should.' 
I  agree completely, but practically speaking, people tend not to realise this sort of thing and tend not to take out adequate cover.  I  realise that you would do so.  Senator Little,  and I certainly would do so, but there are many people who have not thought about this side of it. 
Yes, butI think we should look at the figures involved. Without quoting exact figures,  I  understand that the increase to $30,000 will mean that the total premiums paid by the two major airlines will constitute, at the rate of S30.000. about half of one per cent of their operating costs. If the figure is increased to $50,000, the percentage of total operating costs applicable to the insurance will still be very small. So the effect on fares will be minimal; in fact, it would be a matter of cents only. I do not think the problem about passing on the cost is a real problem. 1 think that a responsible legislature trying to look to the general interests of the people would say that for the sake of a few cents extra on an airline fare it would be better to give people an adequate cover. 
As I have said before, there is one very good reason why this amendment should not be agreed to at the moment, and that is that at this stage Australia is in the position of having to negotiate in the international sphere and 1 do not think that any encumberance should be placed on Australia's freedom to negotiate. For this reason, I oppose the amendment. It has been said by  Senator Greenwood  and others that we have the possibility of recovering damages without proving negligence, and negligence in relation to airline accidents is a somewhat mythical situation. They say it would be difficult in the average circumstances to prove negligence. With that I disagree. This is an oft repeated myth, I feel, and if one has a look at the accidents which have taken place in Australia, say since the end of the Second World War,, in relation to airlines then there would be very few in which it would not have been possible either to sue the airlines or the Department of Civil Aviation, or both, or to rely upon the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur. There may have been one or two, but the number would have been very small. 
An argument that is used against the preservation of a right to sue in negligence is that it creates a delay, and this I would like to rebut briefly if I may. I feel that even though it may involve a delay which will amount lo the difference between the time taken at present for the assessment of damages - say from some months to a- year - and the time taken for an assessment of liability and damages - say from a year to 2 years or perhaps even more - that delay is likely to appear negligible once one receives at the end adequate damages. The delay is short when one thinks that perhaps for another 20, 30, or 40 years the person concerned will have to live with the results of the accident for which he receives those adequate damages. I do not think it is any argument at all to say that if we retain a right to sue in negligence we are creating a position of undue delay. I think it is much more important to look at it from the point of view of saying: 'Well, do we want a scheme where we do not have to have the worry of negligence at all and we can get reasonable compensation in the light of current awards, or do we want to have the situation where we must prove negligence - we can - and then get an unlimited award? 
If the situation is as I understand it - and I mentioned this earlier this afternoon - that other forms of public transport, in particular road transport have been able to reach a situation where unlimited damages are available to persons who are injured as a result of that transport system then I do not know why our very refined air transport system should not also be able to undertake such a system of compensation. I notice from the figures produced in the report of the Department of Civil Aviation for 1968-69 that Australia's record in relation to passenger fatalities on scheduled airline services is very substantially lower than the world rate. The Australian rate is less than one third of the world rate. 1 'do not think that Australia could say the same in relation to road transport. In fact, I think Australia's record in relation to road transport is shocking. If we can have a system whereby people can be adequately compensated in relation to road transport, with our shocking rate, then surely as a community we can afford to provide adequate compensation to people in the air transport field where our record is excellent? I do not by any means want to say that this is a bonus for excellence or an imposition as a result of excellence, but it means that the rate which is likely to be charged by insurance companies to Australian airlines with their record is likely to be substantially lower than the rate of insurance which is charged to the airlines in other parts of the world that have a much poorer safety record. 
When  Senator Murphy  was speaking earlier I did interject when he gave the impression that perhaps he did not accept the principle of no fault liability in this type of assessment. I was interested to hear that he does accept this as a desirable objective. I think that this is another reason why we should not say, as perhaps some have thought at times that we should preserve the right of the common law action in this field. It is one which has perhaps moved a little ahead of the rest of the field of compensation for injuries. We have liability without fault in this field. The next step in this field is not to go back but to go forward by making a reasonable amount of damages available for the people who can make use of the provision of liability without fault. 
In summary. I accept the word of the Minister when he says that this is a matter where it would not be desirable for Australia to be hampered by any such resolution as has been moved by  Senator Murphy.  Notwithstanding the fact that I think most of us agree that it is desirable that so as soon as possible consideration should be given to raising this limit to a realistic level, and bearing in mind that the cost of doing so will be an infinitesimally small percentage of the operating costs of the airlines and will not be imposing an undue imposition upon them, I urge the Minister to take the first available opportunity to give further consideration to this as soon as the international negotiations have been concluded. 
Question put: 
That the words proposedto be added  (Senator Wriedt's amendment)  be added. 
I oppose the amendment. To say the least, I was very surprised to hear  Senator Murphy  speaking in the way he did in support of the amendment because if ever there were a retrograde step in the field of the payment of compensation to victims of transport accidents it would be to revert back to the aspect which  Senator Murphy  referred to of having to prove negligence - or the corollary of that which is to leave it open to people to prove negligence and obtain damages. I should have thought that the general legal thought in the world is moving towards the payment of damages and compensation without having to prove liability. Admittedly the corollary to this course is the taking away of the right to sue when negligence can be proved. I think it would be a most retrograde step to adopt this amendment. In at least one field of transport Ihe situation is being developed where adequate compensation can be recovered by people without having to go to the trouble, expense and delay of proving negligence. 
But the Leader of the Opposition has added a second limb and the second limb is the part to which I object at the moment. I think it is going backwards instead of forwards. 
For the very reason, as I said when speaking to an earlier amendment, that I think that this is the wrong time to move any such amendment. 
The situation at the moment is that the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  has said that Australia is engaged in international negotiations and there are problems in relation to those negotiations which are very serious insofar as Australia's participation in world air transport is concerned. I would not like the Senate to do anything which would hamper Australia's position. But I accept the Ministers undertaking that this matter will be reviewed as soon as possible.  1  believe that the Senate can accept the Minister's undertaking that this will happen rather than take the retrograde step to whichI have referred. Most of the progressive parts of the world, including a number of the provinces of Canada and areas of the United States of America, as well as many of the eminent lawyers of Australia are developing, implementing or advocating that we get to the stage where one can recover compensation without proof of fault. This amendment is a most unfortunate development. Its acceptance would be a retrograde step. I oppose the amendment.I oppose it with all the strength I can muster. I hope and trust that no honourable senator in this chamber will say that we should go backwards in relation to this problem and not forwards. 
Question put: 
Thatthe words proposedto be added  (Senator Wreidt's amendment)  be added. 
We have heard complaints this evening that the stage we are reaching in the consideration of the motion which has been put forward by  Senator Gair  on behalf of the Democratic Labor Party will create a farce. I think we have a farce already. Perhaps it would not hurt to consider for a moment who created the farce, how it came about and what will be the result. Perhaps we should now consider passing  Senator Gair's  proposal and then deciding to do what we should have done in the first place, that is, leave this matter for resolution by the Standing Orders Committee which can then bring forward to the Senate a recommendation which can be considered by the Senate. Instead of that we have a situation in which  Senator Murphy,  impatient for one reason or another, could not wait for the matter to be resolved by the Committee which had been considering it for a considerable length of time. So it came before this chamber a little precipitately. 
If we had a situation in which the Democratic Labor Party, for the purpose of consideration of this matter, was represented on the. Standing Orders Committee in addition to the present membership of that Committee, perhaps we could achieve some resolution of the problem which would be acceptable to all parties. I have sufficient faith in the people who form certainly the majority of the members representing all parties on that Committee to believe that they would te able to consider this matter in the proper way and lo come forward with a recommendation thai would be thought out and worked out and would come before the chamber as a considered resolution agreed to by at least the majority. 
Instead of that we have the farce created by someone who wanted to jump the gun. We have the farce of  a  situation in which for several years people from all sides of this chamber have been working to create in the minds of members of the Parliament, the Government and the people an acceptance of an idea and an ideal. It is an ideal to which we all can subscribe. I believe that basically we all do subscribe to it. But somebody had to jump the gun. Somebody had to try to gain a little kudos. Somebody had to pretend perhaps that it was even his own idea. So now we find ourselves in a situation of farce in which the person who complains about the farce is the person who created it. I can only ask  Senator Murphy  whether he will now reconsider the situation that he, by his precipitate action, has created, let the matter get back to where it should have been and let us have a situation in which we can receive a recommendation from the Standing Orders Committee after it has considered all of these motions and tried to work out a suitable coalescence of the ideas that are put forward in these motions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
In view of a recent statement by the SecretaryGeneral of the United Nations, advocating the establishment of a permanent United Nations police force  to  enforce orders of the International Court of Justice and generally to enable the United Nations to become more effective as a peace keeping and law enforcing body does the Australian Government support the general principle of the establishment of such a police force and, if so, will Australia contribute personnel to such a force. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate as the Minister representing both the Minister for Trade and Industry and the Treasurer. Can he indicate to the Senate whether any steps are being taken to encourage or to assist the establishment of Australian-controlled banking facilities in south east or eastern Asia? 1 ask further: Docs the Government agree that such facilities will assist in the development of Australian trade in that area? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. By way of brief preface I refer  to the various newspaper reports and commentaries relating to the recent United Stales decision in regard to conscientious objection to national service. I ask: Will Hie Minister indicate whether it is necessary to alter the Australian National Service Act to provide for conscientious objection to be based on a belief other than a belief of a religious nature? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Is the Minister aware of the importance to primary producers of adequate shipping services to Flinders Island? Is the Minister aware that the motor vessel 'Joseph Banks' has throughout the past year regularly transported stock from Flinders Island to Stoney Point in Western Port in Victoria and has paid more than $10,000 in harbour dues in respect of the use of that port? Is the Minister aware that there are no stockyards provided at that port and that the absence of such facilities has made more difficult the transport of stock? Can the Minister investigate whether there is any way in which his Department can assist in ensuring that adequate stockyards are provided to facilitate stock shipments from Flinders Island to the Victorian markets? 
Can the Minister representing the Attorney-General confirm that the present situation is that although the new Bankruptcy Act has been in force for some time, the regulations to enable prosecution of offenders under the Bankruptcy Act have not as yet been introduced and that there is a situation in which people are free to commit offences at the moment without being liable to prosecution? 
My question, addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, follows on from that asked by  Senator Lillico.  Will the Minister also seek to obtain a profit and loss account showing the profitability or otherwise of the Australian National Line's shipping operations to and from Tasmania? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Will the Neptune Orient Line's new shipping service between Singapore and Australian east coast ports include calls at any Tasmanian ports? If so, which ports and in what circumstances? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Can he indicate whether any plans have been finalised in relation to the development of the Port Hedland Airport to cope with the rapidly expanding traffic in that area? If not, can he indicate whether any investigation of further development is being undertaken? 
Will the MinisterinCharge of Tourist Activities indicate whether he considers the Bass Strait passenger ferry services and the 'Empress of Australia' to be vital links in the development of the tourist industry in Tasmania? Would the Minister be prepared to use his good offices to ensure that no steps are taken by the Australian National Line to increase the passenger fares on those services and thereby perhaps reduce their utilisation and the development of the tourist industry in Tasmania? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Is it correct that an application has been made by Trans-Australia Airlines to operate an air passenger service between Perth and Darwin, stopping at intervening ports? Is it  correct  that if this application is granted it will constitute competition for the service operated by McRobertson Miller Airlines which, as is being pointed out by interjection, is under the control of Ansett Airlines of Australia? Can the Minister indicate, if the application has been lodged, what stage has been reached in dealing with it? 
I give notice that at the next sitting I shall move: 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade the following matter: The operation of the Australian National Line's freight and passenger shipping services to and from Tasmania, with regard to (a) the profitability or otherwise  of  the operation: (h) the necessity or otherwise for the recent freight rate increases in the operation: and lc) any amendments necessary or desirable to the governing legislation to enable the operation to be carried out al the lowest possible freight rate. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service been drawn to the fact that police estimates as published in today's Press of attendances at the union organised, political, stopwork rallies yesterday in all Australian capital cities totalled approximately 20,000 persons. ls it correct that this means that approximately one-half of 1% of wage and salary earners attended the rallies, that is, if all those who were there were wage and salary earners as opposed to being students, retired persons, pensioners and others not included in the 4 million wage and salary earners? Does the Minister draw any conclusions from this as to the extent to which the wage and salary earners of Australia approve of being used by  Mr Hawke  and others as pawns for purely political purposes? 
To deal first with perhaps the least important of the matters with which we are concerned tonight, I will mention the rather incredible amendment which was moved by  Senator Murphy  and supported by  Senator Devitt. Senator Devitt  and the preceding speakers from his Party have said quite blithely: 'Let the people have a chance to say what they think about this Budget.'  Senator Devitt  entirely overlooked the fact that a lot less than 12 months ago we went through the very expensive procedure of an election. Regardless of the time that normally expires between elections, the cost of an election, and the disruption in the administration of the country which an election brings because of the engagement of people in election matters rather than in running the country, he blithely says: 'Let us have an election.' Perhaps we could have one the week after that if something else happens. I suppose that every time some little thing happens we are to have what is in effect a national referendum. 
The absurdity of what is being suggested by the Australian Labor Party in relation to this Budget is so patently obvious that 1 do not think it is necessary to give it more time. I will deal more specifically with some of the things that were said; but first of all let me put this Budget into context. No-one has said that it was a hand-out Budget. It was never said by any Government supporter or by any Minister prior to the Budget that it was expected to be, nor was it indicated that it would be, what may be known as a hand-out Budget. Last year there were very substantial increases in welfare payments and in a number of the other programmes put forward by the Government. That Budget was criticised as being something which the country could not a/ford.  The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  was criticised as being irresponsible in taking the steps which he took to bring up the degree to which he brought them up the various payments in the welfare field. I suggest that  Senator Devitt,  if he cares to follow the old tradition of remaining in the chamber after he has spoken, may like to hear what I wish to say about some of his statements. If he chooses to leave the chamber - he is now doing so - he will not hear them. It is a matter for him. 
Last year's Budget enabled the people who are in receipt of welfare benefits to receive a very substantial lift, one which I believe was well and truly the maximum that the nation could afford. They are provisions of which we are proud and I think justly so, but it would be unreal to suggest that we could have these sorts of increases every year. This year, with a financial climate which has not been disputed by any Opposition  speaker,  would it have been possible to produce other than a reasoned and balanced Budget? This is what has been produced and I think that in all the circumstances it has tried to equate the varying needs of the community in a way which serves as well as possible all those interests. I think this is what was intended and I think this is what was achieved. 
Probably the most criticised matter in the Budget is the increased rate of pensions. We have heard a great deal of waffle and loose talk about it. We hu e seen displayed perhaps the most irresponsible action imaginable on the part of PlO.pIe whom we might think were responsible organisers of the trade union movement, people who are supposed to be leaders in the community, such as  Mr Hawke.  I suppose this is a good opportunity for me to go to town on the Opposition. I can say anything I like because there is not a single Opposition member in this chamber to hear a word that I say. The Government benches are well stocked, I might say, with senators taking an interest in the Budget and any criticism there may be but which so far has not been forthcoming from the other side. The Opposition is so absolutely disinterested in this matter that not one Opposition senator is here. I see that my remarks have brought forth some rabbits. 
 The numbers on this side are quite substantial as was the increase in pensions. The increase has been said to be 50c. Well, it is 50c per person. If one looks at basic wages and at incomes, one normally looks at the family as being the average unit. If we look at the family unit, we note that the increase in pension was $1 a week. That is what is available to be shared by the married couple, who are the norm so far as pensioners are concerned. In other words, the majority of people in receipt of pensions  are  married couples. But let us look not just at what was done this year but also at what was done last year and what is still being put into effect as aresult of the programmes introduced last year. This included the tapered means test which was of great benefit to a large number of people. The estimate given - I have not seen the actual figures for last  year -  was that a quarter of a million people would benefit as a result of the tapered means test. That means that a quarter of a million people either receive a pension which they previously did not receive or, alternatively, received increases in the amount of pension to which they were entitled. There have been a variety of other benefits to widows and other pensioners. There have been the aged persons homes subsidy, the $1 for $1 subsidy for nursing homes for the aged, and the various amounts which have been made available to persons who are in need and who are now being said to have been unfairly treated by this Government. 
When discussing this subject everyone tends to overlook entirely the fringe benefits which are available to persons in receipt of pensions, age pensions in particular. Perhaps it would be an interesting exercise to calculate the weekly value of the fringe benefits available to the average pensioner couple, add this to the actual cash payment, relate it to the basic wage after tax and see how much difference there is, if there is any difference at all. It may very well be seen that this country is getting to a stage where, by direct or indirect benefits to its retired people, it is able to provide an amount which is not very much below the basic wage. Any country which can afford to do that has, I think, something that it can be proud of. The emotional and hysterical screaming that has been indulged in by certain people in the unions and in the Australian Labor Party in relation to this subject is most unfortunate. I can well sympathise with the people in the pensioner movements who believe that they are not receiving as much as they would like to receive. Many of us think that in relation to the various things in which we are interested. (Quorum formed). 
It has been interesting to see  Senator Cavanagh  come into this chamber, having not been here for most of the evening, immediately call for a quorum and find that he still has only 2 members of his party in the chamber. Obviously the disinterest of the Labor Party in this Budget remains as great as it has been all through the evening. The disinterest of the Labor Party in this Budget is best demonstrated by the way in which  Senator Murphy,  who is the Leader of the Labor Party in this chamber, dealt with the Budget. He had one hour in which to speak to it. He spoke for 27 minutes and in that time he did not say anything that was not either vulgar abuse or inane comment. Let us look at the Budget provisions. The provisions which relate to assistance to wool growers are well known and obviously necessary. The provisions in relation to education have been increased by 25%. Last year the increase was 38% in direct expenditure and 53% in the total expenditure, including direct expenditure and moneys given to the States for education purposes. In other words, there was an increase in expenditure by the Federal Governmentlast year of 53% and 25% this year in relation to education alone. If that is added to the 2 previous years" increases of about 19% and 30% to 35% honourable senators can see that this is a field in which expenditure has been vastly increased by the Federal Government in the past 4 years. We can all be proud, I believe, of these increases. 
We have the substantial repatriation increases and the provisions in relation to postal services. Some of these may hurt people as some of them are increases in charges, but some give important and necessary relief to people who were being subjected to something which I believe was most inequitable. A provision which has meant a great deal to people in the rural areas is the increase in the distance of line maintenance, erection or reconstruction for which the Postmaster-General's Department will pay from the post office or exchange. Many people I know faced bills of SI, 000 and $2,000 - some of them more, some of them less but that is an average figure - not to obtain a phone but just to keep one. That is an exorbitant amount to require any person to pay. The Government recognises the effect that policy would have and it has immediately compensated for it by introducing the provision which was mentioned in the Budget speech. I will not go into detail other than simply to say that the Department will now pay the cost of erection for 15 miles and thereafter the cost will be $40 per quarter-mile. Those are radial distances from the nearest exchange in a straight line. That means that very few people in my home State of Tasmania have to pay anything at all other than the normal instalment charge for the upgrading of rural phone lines, to change over to automatic exchanges or the installation of new telephones to rural properties. 
Let us look for a moment at some of the things  Senator Murphy  and one or two other honourable senators said. As I mentioned a moment ago,  Senator Murphy  spoke for only 27 minutes when he was entitled to an hour. He did not get down to saying something. I do not know why. One wonders why he had to indulge in extravagant statements, exaggeration and abuse.  His  only attempt at being constructive was in relation to the expenditure on the Vietnam war. He said that if the expenditure on the Vietnam war had not taken place we would have had a certain amount in dollars over each year which we could have spent on other things. I do not think one could ever imagine that all the things which Labor Party speakers in this chamber and in the other chamber say should be done by the Government could ever come out of that amount. One imagines it would require another $2,000m or perhaps $3,000m a year to pay for all the things the Labor Party says it is going to do. What would happen to the economy if they ever had a chance to control it? One can only conjecture. 
Let us have a look at some of the statements some of their members have made. We will obtain a fairly good idea of the way they would control expenditure. All honourable senators know that prior to 1963 there was a defence run-down as it was called. There was a reduced expenditure on defence. Since that time there has been an increased expenditure on defence not only as a result of the Vietnam war but also as a result of re-equipment which becomes necessary over a period of time when various equipment has to be replaced.  Senator Murphy  says that if the amount expended before the Vietnam war is related to the expenditure on defence since one can see a vastly increased defence expenditure since the Vietnam war started. Apparently that is the sort of logic he uses.  Senator Murphy  did not answer an interjection from  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack as to who prepared these figures. He refused to say by way of answer to an interjection by me over what period the figures were prepared. I think honourable senators can draw their own conclusions when people refuse to give any of that information to support the basis of the figures they are quoting. I suggest to the honourable senator that the figures he quoted are unreal. They were unreal if for no other reason than that he used a period of well known low defence expenditure and compared it with a period of high defence expenditure. The 2 situations are quite unrelated to the Vietnam war. 
What did  Senator Murphy  say about national development? He had 33 minutes in which to develop his argument but he did not say a word about national development. Did he discuss at length the problems of the rural sector? Not a word, not a mention. Did we hear anything about the drought, about the problems of the wool industry and the industrial demands for shorter hours and greater pay in the rural sector? Did we hear anything about the incomes of the rural sector generally? A leader making an attack to support a motion such as he moved would at least advert to these things which could be developed in greater detail by other speakers who follow.  Senator Murphy  had 33 minutes of his time left in which he could have spoken. Not a word did he mention about any of these important matters. Did he talk about transport and its related problems in this country? Did he talk about the increased grants to the States? Not a word. Did he talk about any of the important areas of the Budget and of Commonwealth responsibility and expenditure? Not a word. Did he say anything about repatriation? Not a word. Did he say anything about the other things that we hear from the opposite side of the chamber from time to time which are regarded as important by the Labor Party? Not a word. All he indulged in was a lot of extravagant abuse. He did not make a constructive statement. 
Let us look at something  Senator Devitt  said. He gave what I believe to be a typical example of the misunderstanding which is evident in the words and the reasoning used by many of those who are criticising this Budget. He said that the gross national product rose by 5.5% and that the pensioners' income rose by only 3%; that is 50c a week. He is trying to relate an increase in the gross national product with an increase per person on a pension. He is saying that 50c is a 3% increase in the individual pension and the gross national product increased by 5.5%, therefore the increase was inequitable. This is some of the extraordinary reasoning which is rather hard to follow because the two are just not comparable in any way. It is interesting to have some members of the Australian Labor Party present to take some interest in the debate of the Budget. Probably if some of them cease chirping and start listening we might get on better. Let us have a look at the increase in social service payments. They were increased by 6i%. Those social service payments are payments in respect of pensioners in various ways. The increase in pensions was 6i% so, if one uses  Senator Devitt's  method of comparing things, as the increase in the gross national product was 5.5%, the pensioners received more than they were entitled to. Of course I hastily add that that comparison is not one which can be made. As I said, the increase in respect of social service payments was 6i%. 
 Senator Devitt  also referred to local government. 
 Senator Georges,  you were not here to listen to what  Senator Devitt  said. You would not know what  Senator Devitt  was talking about and, equally, you would not know what 1 am talking about. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  -  Senator Georges,  you will cease interjecting. You have disregarded the Chair and 1 will not stand for it. You will cease interjecting. 
 Senator Devitt  referred to local government problems and the extreme difficulties which local government has. He referred to the fact that in Tasmania recently a meeting had to be held to discuss these problems. I also attended the meeting and 1 can agree that local government has problems, lt has very real problems. 'But 1 did not hear anything coming from  Senator Devitt  or from any other member of the Opposition as to how these problems can be overcome. I would be very interested to hear how these problems of local government are going to be overcome. We have a number of things to do before we can overcome them. Some of the things that occur to me are a basic review of the Constitution and a basic review of the set-up between Commonwealth Government, State governments and local government. All these sorts of things are necessary before one can say that the Commonwealth Government is responsible for the position in relation to local government because there just happens to be one factor that has been overlooked, that is, the position of State governments which are, after all, under the present set-up, the bodies responsible for local government. 
What has the Federal Government done to help to overcome that problem? It has very substantially increased the amounts available to the States. Not one speaker from the other side of the chamber has referred to that. The increases made just a couple of months ago in the payments to the States were very substantial, and even increases which have been carried on from year to year during the last 2 years have been at a rate far greater than the growth in income of the Federal Government. If we look at the growth in income of the 
Federal Government this year we find that it is about 11%, and if we look at the increase in the amount of specific purpose grants and general revenue grants payable to the States we find an increase at an average of 14.1%, the special purpose grants being increased by 21%. 
We have also the question in relation to the Commonwealth aid roads grant which has been very substantially increased. Whether that will be of assistance to local government will be a matter within the responsibility of the State governments. It will not be the responsibility of this Government which has provided the money. It is unfair and unreal to say that the total responsibility for the position in which local government finds itself can be justly laid at the feet of the Federal Government. It cannot. However, personally, I would agree with any suggestion that there is a need for a reconsideration by the Federal Government, State governments and local government of the financing of local government ventures, but that is an entirely different question. 

 Senator Murphy referred to our starving the States but he did not have - the word I was going to use was 'honesty', but by that I do not mean to imply that he is dishonest in the normal sort of way. 
If the honourable senator will allow me to explain I shall do so. 
 I mean that he did not have in his memory at the time the fact that there have been very substantial increases which it might have been thought by many people would overcome at least temporarily many of the problems of the States. It would be quite unfair to say that the States have been starved because there have been great increases in the contribution made by the Commonwealth by taking over their debts and helping in other ways. Can it be said that this is starving the States?  Senator Murphy  said so. Let us consider what  Senator Willesee  said. He said that the redistribution of income of those receiving less than S4.000 a year had been such that it increased the amount of tax that they would be paying. I presume that in order to arrive at that startling conclusion he was using the figures put forward last night by the Leader of the Opposition in another place  (Mr Whitlam).  At page 465 of Hansard  Mr Whitlam  incorporated a table, called table 8, which is headed 'Budget impact on Family Income and Spending'. This is one of the most remarkable documents we have ever seen. If anybody has not looked at it, may I recommend it for study as I think it will be found to be rewarding because of the paucity of real argument which is available as a basis for proper criticism of the Budget. 
Among other things, in the column relating to the income group about which  Senator Willesee  was speaking most - the $3,000 to $4,000 a year income group - we see a number of items showing estimates of costs of indirect tax rises. Item 11 includes company tax passed on in higher prices. For this income group the amount is $15 a year. One can imagine that conceivably there will be some increases as a result of increased company tax, but the figure mentioned is hardly likely. There will be a reduction of profit, certainly, but it is not necessarily something handed on by companies. Experience will show generally that variations in the tax levels are not passed on directly by industry. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order! If the honourable senator continues to interject I shall have no option but to do something about it. The honourable senator is1 definitely attempting to prevent another honourable senator from making his speech in this chamber. I warn him to cease interjecting. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy President.  We have in this table another item which is equally incredible. I refer to item 12, postal charges for which the estimated cost is $15.90 per annum for the person receiving an income of from $3,000 to $4,000. If we consider the increased postal charges which may apply to the ordinary family we find that there is an additional $7 a year in respect of rental charges for a telephone. If the rest of the cost is to be made up by any other charge that is likely to be applicable it would be brought about by the increased charge of lc per stamp. But a family would have to write 900 letters a year to make up that amount. I think that is rather unlikely. The only other increases are some relatively insignificant ones to the average family because I do not think many of them send a great number of money orders each year and 1 do not think the average family sends a great number of telegrams each year - certainly not enough to make up this difference. If we consider the relationship of the estimated benefit by way of tax reduction to the estimated increase as a result of indirect taxes we find that there is a benefit of $32.30 per annum and a detriment of just under $20 per annum. That, I suggest, is the position at its worst. That shows that  Senator Willesee's  argument was not well founded. 
I have not time to go into detail any further, but I do commend a study of this table to anybody who wants to realise the strength of the argument which has been put by the Opposition, as to the effect of these increases as opposed to the benefits obtained from tax relief. There was a basic inconsistency in the honourable senator's argument when he said that indirect tax is iniquitous and claimed that the placing of an indirect tax on whatever you buy was wrong. Almost in the same breath he said that the increase in telephone charges should not have been made in relation to rental charges but should have been in telephone calls, that is, that people should pay as they use the telephone - pay as they go. There is a basic inconsistency between those 2 propositions. I do not know which way the charges should be imposed so far as his arguments are concerned. Obviously they are inconsistent. 
To go on in the short time left to me, I propose to refer very briefly to the matter of external aid which is provided for in the Budget. Even  Senator Georges  might learn something if he would just keep quiet for a minute because this matter is non-controversial. In relation to increased external aid proposed in the Budget, may I suggest for the consideration of those concerned with the standing of Australia in relation to the countries nearest to it that there is an urgent need for joint venture projects in South East Asia. Every one of the countries there is calling out for Australian participation in the development of those countries by Australian industry or the Australian Government as it has been doing through the Department of Primary Industry in relation to the extension of the milk factories in various countries in South East Asia. Joint venture projects have been established to help those countries create employment, to give them know-how and the opportunity to develop their industries and to develop their economy. This is one of the things which I would regard as being most important. It could be undertaken by Australians with the assistance of the Australian Government. 
Whilst we have insured the persons who engage in export in relation to the amounts which are given credit terms and we have provided special insurance plans for them, we have done nothing directly to encourage people to undertake the investment of capital in other countries and the development of industries in those countries. This is one of the most direct forms of international aid that we could give. Indonesia in particular is absolutely crying out for such assistance. There are many ways in which we could assist Indonesia. There are many industries which it would be appropriate to set up in that country, with Australian know-how, Australian capital and Indonesian labour. I believe that the success of those industries that Australians have established there is proof of the success that is available. The Naspro and IndoMilk companies are just 2 examples. 
The suggestion that I make is that the Government could well consider underwriting all or a percentage of the capital investment required for a period of several years against loss by internal or external changes which could cause the loss of that capital either completely or indefinitely. The sort of thing that could happen is what happened in Indonesia under Sukarno, before the great change that came over that country recently, when the Australian industries that had been set up there were nationalised, taken over by the state of Indonesia and operated by the state. Naturally, some Australian industries may be somewhat wary of undertaking investment in those areas with that sort of risk. But many of us believe - I am sure that a proper assessment would show this - that the risk is not very real. However, industry requires some persuasion and perhaps a little encouragement. The encouragement that could well be given as a form of external aid is the same type of insurance scheme as at present relates to exports; that is, a safeguard against a loss of capital as a result of a change of government which could cause the expropriation of their assets in another country. 
This is a matter that I should like to develop further at another stage. I simply mention it in relation to the Budget because I believe that the Australian Government has done a great deal in the field of external aid and a great deal to foster good relations with countries such as Indonesia. At the moment we stand extremely high in the minds of the Indonesians. I do not claim all the credit for that for the present Government. I admit that we had a Labor government in  1947  and  1948  when a very important move for Indonesians was made. I give credit to  Dr Evatt  for that, and I give credit to the Labor Party for that. But I say that it has been the Liberal-Country Party Government which has carried on what was started and which has carried it on extremely successfully. We have now reached the stage where I believe that Australia is the No.  1  guy so far as friendly relations with Indonesia are concerned. It is a country that we can help to develop. I believe that we have a duty to help it to develop.  1  hope that that development will take place in the very near future and will be encouraged by provisions such as that I have mentioned. As my time has expired, I cannot refer to any other matters at this stage. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Was the Minister's attention drawn to the recent, report in the Press that the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  had stated that the international moratorium conference on the Indo-China war to be held in Sydney had been postponed from next month to January 1971 because of insufficient support from overseas? Can the Minister indicate whether this report means that the organisers have not yet received their funds from Hanoi, or does it simply indicate a waning in the momentum of the Communist propaganda war? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI would not have any ideas as to the motives for postponing or withholding the proposed international conference. I can rely only on what I have read in the newspapers and  Dr Cairns  was reported to have said that the reason was that no-one wanted to come to Australia from those areas. That is my understanding of the report, but since 1 am relying only on what I have read I cannot contribute anything further in answer to the question. 
 In order to continue on the same plane as that, on which  Senator Mulvihill  spoke I shall make a few remarks in an attempt to throw some light on the matter. I would like firstly to reply to a couple of points made by  Senator Mulvihill.  He said that Australia and the Australian Government are getting the reputation of being racist. I suggest to him that it is ludicrous to say that of a Government which has done as much as this Government has done to further the interests of non-racism, particularly through the Colombo Plan. It is worth no further comment than simply to say that anybody who thinks that this Government is following racist policies should study the number of students who are being assisted in this country at the moment, having been brought here as a result of the programme carried on hy the present. Government.  Senator Murphy  also referred to the Declaration of Human Rights. I think it was perhaps unfortunate that he did not have in his mind at the time some of the other provisions of the Declaration of Human Rights - the ones that he omitted to mention. Let me refer first to Article 12 which states: 
No-one shall be subjected to arbitrary interference wilh his privacy, family, home or correspondence, nor to attacks upon his honour and reputation. Everyone has the right to the protection of the law against such interference or attacks. 
I think that some of those who would be the most vocal in supporting the admission of  Mr Gregory  would be those who might be described as having invaded the privacy of the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  recently, but that is perhaps a different question. The fact is that everyone has the right to the protection of the law against such interference or attacks. Article 29 has this to say: 
. . . 
In the exercise of his rights and freedoms, everyone shall be subject only to such limitations as are determined by law solely for the purpose of securing due recognition and respect for the rights and freedoms of others and of meeting the just requirements of morality, public order and the general welfare in a democratic society. 
I venture to suggest that someone who has the reputation of having done a great deal to ensure that there was no recognition and respect for the rights and freedoms of others and did not meet the just requirements of public order and the general welfare in a democratic society is someone who may well be not admitted to this country to carry on in the way in which he obviously has carried on in the United States. I refer to  Mr Dick  Gregory of 5 convictions fame. 
 I should like to read what  Mr Gregory  himself said about this subject. In an interview which was reported in the 'Canberra Times' of yesterday, 2nd September,  Mr Gregory  said that he had been convicted 5 times after Negro civil rights marches in the United States. He added: 
But I've never been convicted of a felony . . . I might just come out there anyway and see what 
I  can't hurt, like a government official. 
If that is not a threat intended to be taken- 
 I am reading this one which says: 'I might just come out there anyway and see what I can't hurt, like a government official*. Obviously he has every intention of coming here and stirring up as much trouble as he can. On page 93 of his book entitled 'Write Me In!' there is a paragraph headed 'Calculated Revolution' in which the following appears: 
But revolutionary action does not require an army of support. Spontaneous reaction involves larger numbers of people than calculated revolution. It takes only a half a dozen committed men to bring a city to a standstill. Ten thousand black folks in the streets of the ghetto are like, wind and snow; a momentary storm which runs its course in a few days. As always happens after a natural disaster, the National Guard comes in abd cleans up the disaster area, but six skilled revolutionaries  can control the destructive  natural forces as scientists attempt to do with the weather. When the National Guard pulls into an area, the revolutionaries will pull out. And after the Guard leaves, they will move in again to initiate new action. 
So he goes on with his plans for that kind of revolution of which we have heard so much from other people, people who had used that means to take over a number of free countries of the world - Czechoslovakia and the rest. Let me return to the Declaration of Human Rights and read Article 30. It states: 
Nothing in this Declaration may be interpreted as implying for any State, group or person any right to engage in any activity or to perform any act aimed at the destruction of any of the rights and freedoms set forth herein. 
If honourable senators care to look at the kind of books that Dick Gregory writes I think they will find that they fairly clearly advocate a breach of Article 30 of the Declaration of Human Rights. 
Let me turn now to the question of freedom to which  Senator Murphy  referred. I suppose that freedom of speech is something that  Senator Murphy  may well be able to speak about because, if I remember correctly, it was the Party to which  Senator Murphy  belongs which prevented his exercising his right of freedom of speech at a recent conference in New South Wales and which caused him to go to Victoria so that he could have a platform on which to speak. Let me mention what the Moratorium organisers have done in relation to  Mr Bryant.  This was referred to in today's newspapers. They say that they will not permit him to take any official part in the Moratorium planned for 18th September. These are the people who are protesting about freedom. I wonder what they would do if they had the opportunity to admit someone to this country who may not agree with their views. Let me mention also what  Mr Joe  Chamberlain said about the Labor Party. He is a well known spokesman for the Labor Party, a man who, from his long experience in the Labor Party, should know what has gone on within it. This is the Party whose members are standing here today complaining about the Government's restriction of freedom. Let us consider what the Labor Party does in this field.  Mr Chamberlain  said: 
Despite statements to the contrary, the ALP, both State and Federal, has never had a conscience vote written into the platform. 
There have been many questions before Conference that have been keenly fought, but the minority has never argued it should be exempt from the majority decision on the ground of conscience. 
Yes. Great conscience men, are they not? Let us look now at some of the other things that are of concern, bearing in mind the . kind of things that are going on and the kind of people who are complaining about the action of the Government. We have the interesting matter of the association of this question with the proposed Moratorium to be held later this month, so 1 think that with some interest we can look back on the last Moratorium and see what happened them. At that Moratorium in Melbourne in May there were 4 speakers -  Dr Cairns, Mr Laurie  Carmichael of the National Committee of the Communist Party,  Mr Michael  Hyde, a Maoist from Monash University- 
I. am sorry; formerly of the Monash University, and  Mr Sam  Goldbloom of the Congress for International Co-operation and Disarmament which is a well known organisation associated wilh the Communist World Peace Council, or at least a fellow traveller organisation.  Mr Goldbloom  is accused - there is plenty of evidence of this from former members of the Communist Part)' - of being, and may very well still be, an important member of the Communist Party. What did the people who organised the Melbourne Moratorium do? They got 3 of the 4 speakers who are either very clearly Communist or very clearly fellow travellers. 
What kind of principles does Communism advocate for Australia? Certainly not freedom. Let us see also who financed the Melbourne Moratorium. Is it not a fact that me Melbourne Moratorium was financed, or at least underwritten, by the Communist Council for International Co-operation and Disarmament? If anyone does not think so, let him look at the minutes of the Moratorium organisation of 9th December 1969 and see whether an offer was not made and accepted. But let us not go too far into that. Instead let us take a further look at some of the other things that have gone on. 
I mention the supporters of the Moratorium; the people who would bring mob action to Australia, mobs  in  the streets as a method of government; the people who clearly advocated, as  Dr Cairns  has done, that anarchy should, in effect, reign: the people like  Mr Gregory  who have advocated that anarchy should reign and that we should no longer have any regard for the parliamentary principle of democracy, that it is right and just for people to take over if they do not like what is being done by a government. This is the principle which those people advocate, ls that in the best interests of Australia? I suggest that it is not. I suggest also that it is somewhat ironical thai the day which has been chosen to bring up this matter is the 3 1st anniversary of the war which saw such great destruction while people fought against a regime such as that which these people would like to see introduced, whether it be Communist, Nazi or Fascist. Many people fought and died in that terrible war. 
A schizophrenic attitude exists among the people who advocate the admission of  Mr Gregory  so that he may create even more chaos in the streets. Where do the people who are so keen on peace stand in relation to the actions of the North Vietnamese and Vietcong in invading Laos and Cambodia? Where do these people stand in relation to the recent shelling of an orphanage by Communists? 1 shall not waste the time of the Senate going into the details of this incident because it has been referred to on a number of occasions in this chamber. Have the people who are supposedly the supporters of freedom and peace protested about the shelling of this orphanage? No. they have not. Where are  these  people? They are marching down the  Street  carrying the flag of North Vietnam. This is what the people who are supposedly the supporters of peace and freedom are doing. It is becoming more and  more  obvious that the people who support  the  introduction into this country of anarchy, lawlessness, mob rule, demonstrations in the streets and the invasion of private homes are the same people who complain when this country takes steps to protect itself. I believe that a government which did not take steps to protect itself against that type of trouble would be falling down in its responsibility to look after the people it governs. 
The controversy is over whether the Government should allow  Mr Gregory  to come to Australia and, as he flippantly claimed, engage  in  sightseeing. I imagine that he has sights he would like to see. Would he like to see the sort of sights which he advocates in his books? Would he like to see the sort of sights which led to his arrest and conviction on 5 occasions? Would he like to see Australians who are genuinely concerned about the situation in South East Asia led into committing an act which they will later regret? Would he like  to  see them led into a situation where they will find themselves in breach of the law? Would he like to see them led into a situation where they will find themselves before a court and convicted of a breach of the law? 
Let us examine whether this  is  the sort  of  action we should advocate. It was said by  Senator Murphy  that  Dr J.  F. Cairns was allowed into the United States  of  America and given a free rein. One sometimes wonders whether he should not have stayed there because he advocates the type  of  anarchy which is being advocated in the United States and which is the cause  of  a great deal of trouble in the United States. It is also becoming the cause  of  a great deal of trouble in this country. I suppose many honourable senators on the other side  of  the chamber are smirking and saying: "This  is  very funny. Let us have anarchy. Let  us have mob rule. Let us have people taking over in the streets. Let us forget about  the  institutions  of  the Parliament'. 
I will not reply to any interjection from  Senator Hendrickson.  From the nature of the interjections he has made in this chamber he has indicated the things which he would like to see done. 
 I move: 
That there be referred to the Studding Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade the following matter - The operation of the Australian National Line's shipping services to and from Tasmania with regard to: 
the factors considered in establishing freight rates; 
the appropriateness of the current level of freight rates; and 
any amendments necessary or desirable to the governing legislation to enable the operation to be carried out at the lowest possible freight rate. 
Recently shipping freight rates to and from Tasmania by the Australian National Line, subsequently followed by other shipping companies, were increased by 12+ per cent overall and in some respects by a much higher percentage. Tasmanians are most concerned at these increases. A great anxiety prevails there. Before I go on to deal with thai fact in detail I shall refer to some of the background in relation to this matter. The ANL came into being with the passing in 1956 of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Act. The Line has carried on the development of the shipping services around the Australian coast and, lately, overseas, lt has been a successful and well run organisation. I believe there would be general agreement in saying that no-one on either side of this chamber regrets the setting up of the Commission. The functions with which it was charged were to establish, maintain and operate shipping services for the carriage of passengers, goods and mail. To that end it was to carry on the general business of a ship owner in relation to any service operated by it. Its objectives were set out and described by the then Minister for Shipping and Transport,  Senator Paltridge,  when the Bill was debated in this chamber in 19S6. Pages 1126 and 1127 of Senate  Volume 8 of the Hansard record of 31st May 1956 contain these words:  lt has been the objective of the Government in drafting this bill to place the commission as far as possible in the same position as a private operator of ships. The commission, therefore, has been given a very considerable degree of autonomy and the powers of the Minister are, generally speaking, limited to a power of approval on a relatively few matters of policy. The Minister also has power to approve of freight rates charged by the commission; but it should be noted that the power is one of approval or disapproval only, and he has no power to initiate changes in the freights charged by the commission. 
The Minister has one direct power, to which 1 should like to refer. Where he considers it is necessary to meet the needs of a particular area and it is in the public interest, the Minister may direct the commission to establish a shipping service to meet those particular needs. Where a service is established at the direction of the Minister and results in a loss and the commission's operations for the year also result in a loss, then the commission is entitled to be reimbursed for the loss on the service or the loss on the year's operations, whichever is the lesser. This power will enable the Minister to ensure that where they are necessary, developmental trades will be undertaken by the commission to areas where the commission would not normally provide services because they would nol be payable from a commercial point of view. If the commission is operating on a profitable basis overall, it will be expected to absorb any loss is on such trades, but if its operations should not he profitable, then it may be reimbursed and the maintenance of developmental services will  thus  not be an unduly onerous burden on the finances of the commission. The Government expects the commission to operate on a proper commercial basis and it has, therefore, included a provision in the bill which obliges the commission to pursue a policy directed towards securing revenue sufficient to meet all its expenditure and to pay a reasonable return on its capital. So far as is consistent with this obligation, the commission is obliged to make its services available at the lowest possible rates. 
Section 1 8 (2) of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Act in fact provides that requirement that the Line makes its services available at the lowest possible rate of charges. The Commission presents an annual report of its operations. By way of background I refer briefly to those reports. In 1968 the Australian National Line made a net profit after tax of $3,062,403. This was notwithstanding the substantial loss of $743,000 which was suffered on the Darwin service. No reference is made to any other section of the Line's operations making a loss and that may or may not be a significant matter. In terms then of the concept outlined by  Senator Paltridge  and provided for in the Act the Commission bears the Darwin loss of $743,000 out of its profits without any special assistance from Commonwealth funds. In 1969 the loss suffered on the Darwin service was $740,000 which is approximately the same amount as in 1968. In the north Queensland service the loss was the rather astronomical one of $1,200,000. Those are the only losses referred to in the report although reference is made to the Tasmanian run but only to mention industrial unrest resulting in inconvenience. The report does not refer to any loss being made so one can assume that in 1968 and 1969 a loss was not suffered on the Tasmanian run. 
In 1969 the Australian National Line's net profit, after tax and after taking into account those losses which I have mentioned, was $1,028,791. Again, those losses were borne out of the profits and were not subject to reimbursement by the Commonwealth Treasury. I remind honourable senators that if the Line's operations reach the stage where large losses, such as on the north Queensland and Darwin run amounting to about $2m, cause the Commission to suffer a loss it is possible for the loss to be reimbursed from Commonwealth funds. It is not therefore essential that freight rates on other services must - I emphasise the word must - be increased to cover any such losses. Whether it is desirable or not is an entirely different question and one which could be considered at a completely different time. The Commission's reports have stated the exact amount of losses suffered on particular services - that is north Queensland and Darwin - so it is quite obvious that the accounting methods available to the Commission enable it to calculate the profit or loss on a particular service. Last year murmurings were heard of possible freight rate rises, particularly in relation to Tasmania. Tasmania has always had to rely heavily on shipping services for its continued participation in interstate trade and commerce. 
As is well known, Tasmania is an island. It cannot therefore rely upon road or rail transport as an alternative. All other States can and the Commonwealth Government has been most conscious of the importance of developing these facilities and providing huge sums for projects such as the eastwest railway, beef roads, etc. It may be of assistance to honourable senators if I mention that from 1951 to 1970 in relation to railways every State except Tasmania participated in grants of $119 1/4m and loans of 123  111  from the Commonwealth Government. In the period 1961 to 1974, in respect of beef roads, grants and loans were given to Queensland, Western Australia and South Australia. The grants totalled $5Hm and the loans $14+m. Again Tasmania did not participate. Tasmania cannot have a rail link with Victoria nor can it have a beef road, other than through its shipping services. It is natural therefore that the cost of those shipping services governs, to a large extent, the prices of most commodities in Tasmania and the extent to which Tasmanian industries and producers can compete in interstate markets. Tasmanians believe that they are entitled, in relation to their shipping, to the sort of consideration given to the other States in relation to their road and rail systems. Perhaps the people of Tasmania may be forgiven for taking that attitude because they have been given to understand that their interests would be given special consideration. 
For example,  Senator Paltridge,  who was the Minister for Shipping and Transport when the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Act was before this chamber, said, as reported in Hansard at page 1365: 
Tasmania always has been regarded, so far as shipping is concerned, as one part of the Commonwealth that should receive special treatment, regardless of cost. 
That was a firm statement of policy by a responsible Minister and a statement to which I believe Tasmanians were entitled to have regard. It is not surprising, therefore, that the recent announcement in July that the Australian National Line would increase its freight rates in one jump by 1 21 per cent was received with some dismay followed by a degree of incredulity and resentment. Later it began to appear to Tasmanians that not only was  there to  be a general rise of 12+ per cent by the ANL but also that other shipping lines would follow suit. Blow followed blow as the people in Tasmania learned that new methods to arrive at freight rates for certain classes of goods would also be introduced and that some of the increases might be as high as 100 per cent or more. Perhaps some of the expressions of fear and indignation were based on misunderstanding and a lack of full knowledge. 
Perhaps some were unjustified and exaggerated, but every person living in Tasmania was hit with a feeling of great concern. Editorial comment in the newspapers reflected the common view of the people in relation to this matter. I take but 2 examples. The editorial in the Launceston Examiner' of 23rd July states: 
The  Chairman  of the Shipping Division of the Tasmanian Chamber of Manufacturers has stated that Tasmanian industry is subsidising uneconomic services of the ANL by almost J2.5m annually. The figure will be challenged; but more than an unqualified and unsupported denial front the Federal Minister for Shipping  (Mr Sinclair)  will be needed to convince Tasmanians to the contrary. 
The Hobart 'Mercury' of 22nd July said: 
As for the principle that the ANT. should pay its way, does this have to be applied unreservedly in the case of a Stale which is so utterly dependent on shipping. 
The Premier of Tasmania,  Mr Bethune,  has repeatedly expressed concern about this matter. He requested that the decision be reconsidered. A number of other steps were taken to make representations to those concerned. The increases were described by the Premier as another economic blow to the people of Tasmania, He described the situation as a crisis and he gave examples of increases, such as that on jam exports - an important export from Tasmania- from $26.35 to $38, an increase of nearly 50 per cent. Another example was on the export of carbide, on which is based another important Tasmanian industry. This increase was from $20.10 to $27.35, an increase of about 35 per cent. 
The State Minister for Transport,  Mr Bessell,  forecast a  2i  per cent to 4 per cent increase in the cost of many basic foods and groceries.  Major industries  expressed their concern and some which were contemplating expansion or development are now reconsidering. The Federated Chambers of Commerce expressed its concern and was one of many that made a statement to this effect: 
The consistent refusal by the ANL to release individual figures on all its operations in Australia reinforces the suspicion that Tasmania's high rates are subsidising uneconomical services. 
The Chambers of Commerce also said: 
Even if Tasmanian shipping routes are uneconomic, the rates should remain at the same level because of the Slate's dependence on shipping. 
Those comments are typical of the widelyheld beliefs. Whether they are justifiably held or not is an entirely different matter and one I do not go into at the moment because it is one into which I hope a committee of this Senate will be going. Discussions have been held to try to overcome the problems but notwithstanding those discussions between Tasmanian Ministers and the Tasmanian Government, the industries in Tasmania, the Federal Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  and representatives of the shipping line, nobody seems to be satisfied. We have had continued expressions of concern and suggestions for action coming from all the political parties in Tasmania. I believe it is fair to say that this is the most serious issue in Tasmania's history. It is certainly Tasmania's greatest problem since the 1967 bushfires. The people of Tasmania are confused as to the facts. The refusal - which may be completely justified - to release the figures in the same way as those for the Darwin and northern Queensland runs has led to suspicion and confusion. The people of Tasmania want to know the facts and they want to be taken into confidence so that they may try to determine what action should thereafter be taken. I emphasise that it is not necessarily a matter of asking at this stage- for any particular action, nor do I think that the people of Tasmania generally say that any particular action should be taken. Some may say that there should be some sort of subsidy and some may say that some other action should be taken. What is required is a basis of knowledge and fact, from which the people can determine the proper action to be taken. 
We have, therefore, a most important and vital matter concerning the operation of Commonwealth Legislation, principally the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Act. This matter should be dealt with as a matter of urgency. The people of Tasmania are entitled to have the State House of this Parliament help them. We have recently created just the machinery to deal with such an urgent matter. We have created standing committees for this purpose and I suggest that this is a most appropriate matter to refer to a standing committee. Such a committee is capable of quick investigation and the presentation of an early report. Some of the investigations may need to be carried out in camera because it is quite conceivable that many of the figures and factors concerned in the determination of freight rates which would be dealt with by the Committee under its terms of reference would involve questions which may put the ANL in a disadvantageous position if they were bandied about publicly. But that is a matter to be determined by the Committee when it takes the evidence. It is quite a common thing for Senate committee to take evidence in camera where it is obviously in the interests of those concerned that such evidence should be taken in camera rather than in public. I simply mention that matter by way of putting up a skittle to knock down. I imagine that one of the matters that could be raised in relation to this is that it would be unfair to subject the ANL to a requirement to disclose its figures publicly. 
The terms of reference are intended to cover the main matters which are of concern to the people of Tasmania and to give the opportunity for the appropriate recommendations to be made. The terms are intentionally - and I emphasise this - not so wide as to lead the committee into a lengthy and broad examination which would preclude it from bringing in an early report. I believe that an early report is important. It is essential for this is a matter which requires urgent investigation and the speedy presentation of a report. It may very well be that the investigation will show that the increases are completely justified and that some other and entirely different action must be taken, whether it be by way of alteration to existing legislation or some other step. 
I know I have the full support of Senators Lillico and Marriott, the other 2 honourable senators on the back bench on this side of the chamber who come from Tasmania. I mention also that I moved this motion on behalf of the 3 of us after a full discussion with them. It was decided between the 3 of us that as I was the only one of the trio not up for re-election this year I should move it, so that no-one could suggest that either  Senator Lillico  or  Senator Marriott  was endeavouring in any way to make political capital out of what is a most important matter to the State of Tasmania. I ask the Senate to support me, the other Liberal senators from Tasmania and the Tasmanian people by agreeing to refer this urgent and critical matter to the Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade. 
I hope and trust that the motion will be supported and that, if it is supported, the matter can be proceeded with quickly and an early report produced to the Senate on the limited terms of reference I have prepared. It may then be that the report would suggest some further investigation, and at that stage consideration could be given to the further investigation. But at this stage it is important to have the opportunity for an early investigation and report so that, if some step to change the freight rates has to be taken, it can be taken before too much further damage is done to the further development of the State of Tasmania. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Is the motion seconded? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. I ask: With the considerably reduced flight times for internal airline flights as a result of the introduction of new aircraft, has consideration been given to reducing the internal airline fares by making a substantial reduction in the number of special services provided to passengers, such as the provision of meals and liquor? Could a substantial reduction in fares be effected by such means? 
 Has the Minister for Air noted that the first Fill aircraft have been delivered to North Atlantic Treaty Organisation forces for full flying duties? Can he indicate why those aircraft have been passed and accepted as suitable for use while Australia's Fill aircraft have not yet been found suitable for delivery to and acceptance by the Royal Australian Air Force? 
asked  the Minister  representing the  Minister for Shipping  and  Transport, upon notice: 
What is the total of all payments made, by way of subsidy or other aid, to assist shipping services using Tasmanian ports. 
What were the individual miniums paid during the year 1969-70 in respect of each category of subsidy or other aid. 
asked the Minister repre  senting the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Will the Neptune Orient Line's new shipping service between Singapore and Australian east coast ports include calls at any Tasmanian ports, if so, which ports and under what circumstances. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the interior. Will the Minister draw to the attention of the Minister for the Interior recommendations made by the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution in relation to the urgent action necessary to be taken in Commonwealth territories to control and reduce the problem of water pollution? Will the Minister ascertain whether any steps are being taken to implement any of those recommendations? 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services relates to a matter which I have previously mentioned to her and in respect of which I should like to obtain an answer, that is. the value of fringe benefits available to pensioners and the form that those benefits take. 
In addition to the benefits already mentioned, the following benefits are available to all pensioners, regardless of means: A subsidy towards nursing home fees of $14 a week where light nursing is involved or $35 a -week if intensive nursing is required. The average value of this benefit would be 80c weekly. The Commonwealth also provides financial assistance to en courage the provision of nursing home beds, home nursing, home care, paramedical services and meals on wheels. The combined average value of these benefits would be some 6c a week. A subsidy of $5 a week is paid to hostel type non-profit institutions for each resident over 80 years of age. The average value per pensioner is 4c a week. Housing benefits provided by way of the aged persons homes scheme and rental concessions for aged persons provided under the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement are worth an average 47c a week. Persons of pension age receive certain taxation concessions. Single persons pay no tax if their taxable income is less than $1326 a year and reduced tax if it falls within the range of $1,327 to $2273. The corresponding figures for a married couple where at least one is of pensionable age are $2314 a year and a range of $2315 to $4102. It is not possible to calculate the value of these concessions. 
In summary, those benefits which it has been possible to cost may be valued at $4.78 a week for the average pensioner. When account is taken of the other concessions mentioned but not costed, the value of fringe benefits is seen to be some $5 a week. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Housing. By way of preface I refer to the fact that yesterday' the Minister supplied to the Senate details of the average cost of building brick and timber homes for the respective State housing commissions. Those figures show that in Tasmania the average cost per square is 15 per cent to 30 per cent higher than in the other  States.  Will the Minister ascertain the  reasons for that very large difference in building costs? 
asked the Minister repre  senting the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has any further progress been made in the previously promised consideration of Commonwealth participation in a nation-wide legal assistance scheme; if so, is any action likely to be forthcoming? 
Is the question of the introduction of a system of family courts into the Australian court system receiving any current consideration, and is the system to be introduced in the foreseeable future? 
I have listened with great interest to  Senator Mulvihills  speech on this subject. I agree substantially with what he said but in some respects I go a little further. To give a little of the background, the report that we are debating represents approximately 20 months work by a committee of this Senale and by some extremely competent assistants. 
I commence by paying tribute to the assistance which the Committee received in the preparation of the report from the officers associated with it in their various capacities. I am sure that those members of the Committee present now would agree with me that it would not have been possible to produce a report of the kind that has been produced were it not for the assistance that they received from the officers who were associated with the Committee in one way or another. Their ready co-operation, their assistance, their ideas and their very hard work are things for which not only the members of the Committee but also, 1 believe, the Senate and the people of Australia should be grateful. No-one other than those who were associated with the Committee will know the amount of-work that was put in behind the scenes by the officers concerned in the organising of the investigation, the investigation itself and the preparation of the report. 
This report is more comprehensive than any other report on this subject has ever been. It is the only national survey of water pollution in Australia, lt has been well received by the Press and by the public. It is a matter of some satisfaction to members of the Committee to see the way in which the report has been received, not only by honourable senators but also by the general public. Everyone appears to have been favourably impressed by the report. Tt is unfortunate, therefore, that there has been some reaction from one or two relatively small sectors in the Australian national scene. Some individuals in State governments have been critical and have reacted in a way which can only lead to the impression - I am sure that  Senator Mulvihill  will agree with me on this - that they have not read the report, have not studied the report and certainly have not understood either the problem or the recommendations in the report. I can only conclude that they have reacted in that way because of a misunderstanding. It has been stated that the suggestions in the report were an unwelcome interference with State rights. To me that shows a basic misunderstanding of the Committee's recommendations. 
So far as 1 know, no-one to date has claimed that the Committee's general conclusions were not right. Certainly some of the recommendations have been criticised but not the general conclusions. I believe that the Committee's report will serve as a very useful guide for all those concerned with this problem in whatever way the problem is tackled, be it in the way recommended by the Committee or be it in some other way. I understand that some industries are very concerned that the legislation to be introduced will be too strict. There are some conservationists who are worried that the legislation will not be strict enough. This is typical of the problems which the Committee endeavoured to resolve. It spent a lot of time hearing evidence from those 2 extremes. The industrial side was concerned that industry should not be so impeded that it would be able no longer to compete or to operate economically. The conservationists, on the other hand, not unnaturally were worried about the effects of pollution and perhaps would wish to go too far in trying to restrict anyone whose activities would create pollution, be it water pollution or any other kind of pollution. 
The Committee spent a great deal of time discussing this problem and, although the report does not deal with it at great length, it has dealt with it to a significant extent. The conservationists and the industrialists who are worried could well spend a little time reading sections of the report relating to this conflict, and cogitate on some of the matters which have been referred to in sufficient detail to give a guide to people on both sides to work out the answer to this inevitable conflict. The report discusses the issues and sets out the considerations. It does not and cannot say what the final determination should be, on balance, between those 2 conflicting views. That is not a matter on which a Senate select commitee can report. But the report does set out many of the issues and man of the relevant considerations. 
If the report has done nothing other than simply assess the situation in Australia, assess some of the considerations in relation to overcoming the problem in Australia and make some suggestions as to how it can best be overcome, as a comprehensive survey of the Australian scene it has achieved a worthwhile result. That will be so even if nothing positive beyond that is achieved. Of course, 1 hope that much more than just that will be achieved. I would not be disappointed and I would not think that the very considerable effort and amount of time that were put into this report were wasted if nothing else happened. However, let us hope and trust that it goes much further than that and that there is a great deal of reaction to and application of the matters that are set forward in the recommendations in the report. 
Let us look for a moment at some of the basic problems. One of the first basic problems at which we should look is the local administration problem. This is one that kept reappearing like the bad money in Boyle's Law. If I remember Boyle's Law correctly, it is that bad money stays in circulation and good money goes out of circulation. 
 I think this was another Boyle; but perhaps it is Gresham's Law. Anyway, the problem which kept reappearing like bad money and which was mentioned by people in every State was the one that local administration has in enforcing any sort of standards or any sort of a law in relation to water pollution control where, as very often happens, the enforcement authority is also a polluter in its own right and is put in a situation, due to lack of finance or the inability to raise finance, in which it cannot do anything about the pollution for which it itself is responsible, yet it is charged with the function of reducing pollution and prosecuting those who create pollution in its area. This is an impossible situation and one in respect of which I have the greatest sympathy for those who are charged with the duty of enforcing local anti-pollution legislation. 
But it is not good enough if we are looking at this matter from the standpoint of what will happen to Australia and what will happen to water pollution control. So, one of the conclusions which were inescapable to the Committee, having sat and listened to the evidence that it heard, was that this impossible situation will continue if enforcement continues to be placed in the hands of those who are living in the same community as the people they have to prosecute. How does any local government get on if it has to prosecute the industry that is the mainstay of the area that it administers? It is a very difficult situation, and again one in relation to which I have sympathy with the local governments. 
We have extreme variations in approach. Perhaps some of them are governed by the situation in which the administering authority finds itself in that the extent to which it is responsible for pollution is the extent to which it can enforce laws in relation to pollution. If, because of misfortune, lack of finance or perhaps lack of foresight, it is in a position in which it is responsible for a degree of pollution, we can expect to find that it will be more lenient with the other polluters than it should be. This is the dilemma in which local government is placed. This is the dilemma in which, to a lesser extent, State government is placed in the enforcement of such pollution laws as exist in this country at the moment. 
Lel me refer now to the unfortunate effect variations in the legislation governing pollution - water pollution in particular - have on industries. One matter that was put repeatedly to the Committee during its hearings was the situation in which industry finds itself when it is faced with these wide variations in standards with which it should comply. Let me take an example which comes to my mind at the moment. The paper pulp industry is an inevitable producer of effluent which has a strong potentiality for creating pollution. Tt finds that in one State it is required to treat that effluent to a certain degree; in another State it is required to treat it to an entirely different degree; and in a third State perhaps it is not required to treat it at all. The requirement may vary according to the receiving body of water. Such variation would be perfectly understandable. 
But there did not seem to me - I am sure that I can speak on behalf of the Committee when I say this - to be any real rationalisation between the regulations on the standard of effluent and the ability of the receiving body of water to deal with that particular standard of effluent. The standard seemed to me to be related far more to the keenness displayed by the local government or State government concerned to obtain the industry when the industry was thinking about setting up in the area. We have a situation in which an industry, wishing to establish in Australia and being one with a high potential for the production of harmful effluent, says: Where can we best set up? Where will the requirement as to the treatment of our effluent be less stringent?' Not unnaturally, it will shop around. Again not unnaturally, lt will compare what the requirments will be in one area with what they will be in another. 
The temptation is for a small State or a municipality that badly needs an industry to say to the industry: 'We will not require you to comply with very strict standards at all. In fact, we will let you just pour your effluent straight out'. That actually happened in one of the most glaring examples that can be found in Australia. In a certain State an industry with an evitably very high pollution potential in its effluent was permitted just to discharge that effluent straight into the ocean without any treatment whatsoever. The net result was that 20 miles of coastline, I think it was. was badly affected by that effluent. That is the type, of situation that arises when we have this variation in standards and this variation in enforcement. 
II  simply say that these are the sorts of considerations that led the Committee inevitably to believe that it was essential to the control of pollution in Australia that there be one central theme behind that control and the enforcement of pollution laws in Australia. For the benefit of any of the State Ministers who have reacted to this report and anyone else who is concerned about this point I hasten to add that that does not mean that the Committee said that the Commonwealth Government should take control. What the committee did say was that there should be a national approach to this problem and that there should be co-ordination and cooperation in achieving a uniformity of approach. Subsequently I will deal with the way in which the Committee suggested that uniformity and co-ordination could be achieved. 
But let me return to the situation of industry. How fair is it to industry in Australia that in one State its cost of produc tion should be very much higher than in another State because in one State it is required to protect the environment as an inevitable element of its cost of production 
Yes, compelled under law to do so; whereas in another State it is able to expend the environment and so put its product on the market at a cheaper price and gain a benefit for itself not by expending its own funds in producing that product but by expending that which is owned by the public and which is sacred to the public, that is, the environment, which is something that cannot be replaced - or not quickly anyway? This is the type of situation that exists when there is a lack of uniformity of approach to this problem. 
I suggest that in the interests of the public, for the protection of the environment, as a matter affecting the success or failure of industry and the cost of consumer goods and a number of other factors, uniformity of approach is essential for the control of water pollution. Industry itself, for the reasons I have mentioned, has a very strong interest in ensuring that uniformity of approach to the problem. By uniformity' I do not mean that every requirement as to standards should be exactly the same in every place. I mean that there should be a uniform approach to determining the standards which arc appropriate to each particular area because the standards required will vary according to the receiving body of water and its capacity to digest the effluent. It involves an assessment of the nature of the effluent and of the quality of the receiving body of water, its subsequent use and its ability to digest as well as a number of other factors. 
For the reasons I have mentioned, and a number of other reasons, the interests of government are best served by a uniform approach to water pollution control. An overwhelming majority of witnesses before the Committee said that a national approach is essential. It is interesting to note that  Mr Gilpin,  Queensland's Director of Air Pollution Control, said last month to the Australian and New Zealand Association for the Advancement of Science conference that air pollution control in Australia is at present the subject of a patchwork of State laws and delegated local government responsibilities and will require concerted action from all 6 States to produce an effective national standard. The report in the 'Australian Financial Review' of 19th August 1970 of the speech by  Mr Gilpin  was headlined 'National Code Urged For Air Pollution'. I would suggest that any report of my speech tonight would carry the same headline, with the word 'water' substituted for 'air'. 
I believe that a national code is absolutely essential in relation not only to air pollution, as  Mr Gilpin  suggested, but also in relation to water pollution. I hasten to add that this does not mean that anybody is suggesting that the matter should be taken over by the Commonwealth and that the rights of the States should be completely abrogated, or that any step should be taken other than the sensible one of adoption of a national approach. This is essential for a national problem when the future of the community in which we live depends upon the success or otherwise of the measures that are taken to overcome the problem. The Committee said at page 76 of its report: 
We were told by various witnesses that a systematic attack on pollution problems would require properly controlled surveys, investigations and studies. After they were made, priorities could be assessed, and informed and rational judgments could be made. If Australia had the time, the expertise and the money, this would be advice worth heeding. But time for dealing with water pollution has, in our view, already run crucially short, co-ordinated expertise in the Field of water pollution is lacking in this country, and our financial resources are subject to other urgent pressures. Therefore, this Committee believes that some judgments must be made and that the nation must, as a matter of urgency, get on with the job of pollution control, abatement and prevention. Within the next few years we should like to see a general frontal attack on all the problems, but wc believe thai a start can and should be made more quickly on the four main problems . . . 
The four main problems are, of course, sewerage, salinity, industrial effluent and the setting of standards. It is interesting to study the experience in the United Slates of America, to which  Senator Mulvihill  has already referred very briefly, In the time available in a debate such as this I too must refer to it briefly. I suggest to anybody who claims that there is no need for a national approach, or a uniform and co-ordinated approach to overcome this problem, that he should study the United States experience over the last 50 or 60 years. It has shown very clearly that there is only one very effective way in which to tackle the pollution problem. It has been firmly established that a fragmented approach will not work. A co-ordinated approach is essential. 
There must be a willingness to recognise the problem and to do something about it. There must be adequate administration and enforcement machinery to implement a nationwide plan. There must be funds to achieve those objectives. The determination of priorities then becomes important. I suggest that we should all agree that priorities can best be determined by a body of representatives drawn from all parts of the Commonwealth with experience of pollution problems, resources and means to overcome the problems in their particular areas. Then priorities can be determined. I suggest that the Committee's report would be quite helpful introductory reading to an assessment of the priorities. Obviously a body is required which can go much further than that and which is much more closely allied with the day to day administration in the States to determine those priorities and to guide on a uniform and national basis a policy which is agreed upon by all. 
We should not overlook the work which is being done by the Australian Water Resources Council in its survey and assessment of the quality and quantity of our waters. But there are other aspects that need attention. A very important research ingredient is involved in overcoming pollution in Australia. The Committee gained the impression that the research into the problem in Australia has only been scratching the surface and that a great deal of work remains to be done. I do not mean in any way to suggest that the people who have carried out the research are not doing extremely effective work in their particular projects. The problem is that their numbers are very limited. I think every member of the Committee will remember the evidence of Professor Munro of the University of New South Wales who told us that at the University his department was the first to introduce a course which touched clearly and properly upon a consideration of all the problems involved in pollution. 
However, he said that that was not nearly adequate and that it was necessary to go very much further than he had gone. He said that it was necessary to go further tha a any of the universities had gone in the training of officers and in all aspects involved in the control of environment and its relationship to the administration and development of a community. They are 2 very important aspects. More and more local government authorities concerned with the development of our community have been paying attention to pollution, but we were led to believe that throughout Australia they are experiencing great difficulty in finding trained operators, let alone skilled assistants. 
There is a shortage of trained technicians to operate pollution control equipment and effluent treatment works. A great deal of education is required as well as a great deal of research before Australia can claim that it is up with it in respect of the technical aspects of pollution control, the necessary research, how to go about it and the persons best suited to handle the problem. None of these things is receiving adequate attention in Australia at present but excellent work is being done by many people already in the field. At the moment the number of trained technicians is rather sparse, and the extent to which our community is prepared to devote a proper sector of its public finance towards solving this problem is limited. Not only have we a sparse number of persons who are interested in, trained in and technically capable of dealing with the problems of pollution but also we have a very considerable shortage of finance to train, to educate, to carry out research or to carry out the implementation of the work itself. 
Those people who say that the problems can be solved best by the States going it alone and nol working in concert are, f believe, kidding themselves and have not considered the problems. 1 believe that the States are to be congratulated for the work that they have done in the past year or two. They certainly have shown a great deal of activity which was not evident until perhaps a couple of years ago. During the progress of the Committee's work it was very interesting to see the increasing activity in the various States. The attention that has been paid to this problem has been most commendable. I am not to be taken as detracting in any way at all from the individual efforts of each State; but the individual efforts of each State will be to no avail, comparatively speaking; if the States do not co-ordinate and co-operate in getting a uniform approach to the problem because inevitably they will be beset with the same kind of problems which the Committee found have been in existence for the last 100 years. We start with a very good piece of legislation appropriate to the time and then we find that the pressures which inevitably result from a fragmented approach to the problem break down the effect of the legislation and the legislation might as well never have been passed. Unless there is a unified and concerted approach to the problem we will not achieve any real or lasting effect from the approach taken by the smaller areas - be they States, municipalities, shire councils or whatever they may be. 
What has been suggested by the Committee is a framework within which the States' rights are protected but through which a national approach is possible. In its report the Committee said that it believed that, as a result of the evidence given by the expert lawyers who gave considerable assistance to the Committee, it was possible for the Commonwealth to design legislation to enable the Commonwealth to go it alone in relation to this problem. But what the Committee specifically said was that it did not wish to see that approach taken: it wished to see an approach by way of co-operation between the States and with the States working towards one national objective. At page 142 of the report the background to formulating this recommendation is set out. The report states: 
In formulating its recommendations the Committee has recognised the following general principles: 
That recommendations should bc made for desirable Commonwealth action within the areas that are fully and indisputably within Commonwealth power and responsibility. These include the creation of the necessary administrative authority, the provision of finance, and the determination of policy, within th'e ambit of a national policy, for the CommonWealth Territories and within the other areas under Commonwealth jurisdiction. 
That evidence presented to the Committee tended to establish firmly that the Commonwealth has. through a coalescence of Commonwealth power in the fields of taxation, defence, external affairs, meteorology, fisheries, quarantine, and other fields, sufficient legislative competence to lay down and enforce a national approach through Commonwealth legislation alone. 
I emphasise this paragraph: 
However, notwithstanding this, the Committee believes that, bearing in mind the Federal concept of the Constitution, it is preferable to attempt to achieve the national approach through the system of concurrent, parallel or complementary Federal and State legislation. 
I will read that again: 
. bearing in mind the Federal concept of the Constitution, it is preferable to attempt to achieve the national approach through the system of concurrent, parallel or complementary Federal and State legislation. 
The report continues: 
There are further areas of the implementation of the national approach which do not require such legislation and in which the Commonwealth may provide services  to  the Commonwealth jurisdictional administration, to the States, to local government and to industry. Such services include research, educational and training facilities and special grants or loans. 
That recommendations be made for the creation of a national body to focus and implement a national approach, bearing in mind the above-mentioned principles. 
In a short debate it is not possible to set out in detail the recommendations of the Committee in relation to the creation of such a body. Perhaps I should just say that the recommendations are urgent and vital if this country is to achieve the greatness which all of us on either side of the chamber hope it will achieve. If we are to achieve that, it is absolutely vital that great attention be paid to the recommendations of this Committee. I am not saying that the Committee's recommendations are infallible. I am not saying that these are the only possible solutions. What I am saying is that it will never do people any good to bury their heads in the sand and say. 'We are right and you are wrong and you can go jump in the lake, Jack'. They will not be able to jump in the lake before long. If they do they will need an injection before they are pumped out. 
 Yes, a person would be able to walk on it. My previous remarks show the kind of attitude which has been adopted by some people. Most unfortunately - I do not necessarily mean by some Ministers in State governments - it has been adopted by some sectors of industry and by a host of people in the community. It is most unfortunate and most short sighted. I suggest it shows nothing but their own ignorance because anyone who has studied this problem fully could not be other than deeply concerned about the effect it could have on the development of the country and about the possibility of overcoming the problem. In the past in the United States of America, in other countries and in Australia a completely fragmented approach has led to a complete failure to overcome the problem. Heaven forbid that we should ever achieve the result that the legislative approach in the United States of America achieved until the mid-1960s. It was not a lack of legislation, a lack of money or a lack of will, but it was a lack of uniformity and of coordination which caused the largest part of the problem which is besetting the United States at the moment. That problem will beset this country if people are not prepared to pay more attention to the findings of 20 months work on the part of members of the Committee, to the lifetime of experience of some of the professional advisers to the Committee and to the lifetime of experience of some of the witnesses who gave evidence. 
The Commonwealth has its role to play and I trust that it will fulfil its role. It has a role to play in the Territories; in assisting in co-ordination between the States; in research by specialists; in education; in carrying out work, be it research or technical work of actually carrying out pollution control; in the education of the general public; and, I believe, in providing funds for the carrying out of a lot of aspects of this work, particularly in relation to finding a formula - whatever that formula may be - which will enable sufficient funds to be obtained, be they from Commonwealth sources, State sources, local government sources or some source about which we have not heard before, whether it be an Opera House lottery or something similar. It is absolutely essential that a formula be found. The Commonwealth is in a position to take the initiative to find a formula to provide adequate funds for the provision of proper sewerage and sewage treatment works throughout Australia. Only a period of time on a committee such as this is likely to bring forcefully to the notice of any member of the Senate the abysmal manner in which Australia has approached the problem of sewerage and of sewage treatment. One of the problems is that you cannot get proper figures because inadequate research has been done into and inadequate assessment has been made of a lot of these aspects, but the figure that was given to the Committee was that 55 per cent of the population of Australia has some form of sewerage provided. Even if this is correct and the assessment is correct that 60 per cent of the sewage is treated in some way, it means that a very large percentage of the total inevitable pollution which rises from a simple bodily function which is inevitable to the very existence of man in this country is not being adequately catered for and is not being adequately compensated for by proper treatment works. 
The simple fact is that this country has not got its1 priorities the right way round in these matters. Man cannot live here without polluting. People cannot live on earth without creating pollution. But if they continue to pollute and to add to the pollution which is natural to their simple existence - pollution which is created by all the other activities in which man engages in order to be able to live in the so-called affluent society, al] the industries and all the other effects of the development which has taken place - without taking proper steps and spending a proper percentage of the income, which is the national income produced by all the people within the community, on treating that pollution, they will find themselves without a country to live in because they will have destroyed it. That is what has been happening in this community and it is what has been happening in other parts of the world. 
It is all very well to say that it is not so obvious, but some of the evidence given to us might implant a little bit of fear into the minds of some of the people who have the responsibility to take steps in this direction. That evidence was given to us by a very experienced witness, a person who should know. He said that Sydney Harbour is no longer able to sustain marine life anywhere near the bottom of the harbour. We have managed to kill off the bottom of Sydney Harbour. It is still pretty to look at from the top of most areas; - although you can find a lot of areas that are not pretty. We have the situation in which 
Bondi Beach, which is one of the most famous beaches in the world, and certainly the most famous beach in Australia, is regularly polluted as a result of sewage being swept on to the beach from the Bondi sewage outlet. I will not go through all the examples, but there are 2 examples which can start to make people think of what they are doing to this country. 
It Ls a soluble problem, lt is difficult to find a solution to lots of problems, but this is not one of them. The solution is clear. I trust that honourable senators in accepting this report will also individually and collectively take steps to endorse the action necessary to motivate people to adopt a collective approach towards solving on a national basis what is one of the very real problems which our community faces in this day. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, we have had a long debate during which many figures have been quoted. For that reason f shall nol go into the figures involved to the extent to which I might have done otherwise and will refer to them only in a very limited way. Nor do I intend to detail the benefits conferred by the Bill before us. I merely want to mention that ils provisions are not limited solely to age pensions. Anyone listening to this debate might have gathered the opinion that that was the case. I draw the attention of honourable senators to the fact that the Bill does include a number of other provisions relating to widows' pensions, benevolent homes, and a matter which I regard as most important - the supplementary sickness benefits after a period of 6 weeks which are referred to in clause 8. Other benefits also are being conferred by this Bill. Although the debate has principally ranged round age pensioners I feel that the Senate would be misled if it believed that they are the only people with whom this legislation is concerned. 
I propose to refer first of all to some of the facts and arguments put forward by honourable senators. The first point I want to make - and to reiterate so far as it was made by other speakers from this side of the chamber - is that social services have been shown to be, and they continue to be, at the forefront of the thinking, particularly, of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  and of the Government generally. 
It is easy to become too involved in sympathy for people in need and not consider the matter from the point of view of reality. Honourable senators have tended to become emotional when debating social services in this chamber. Other people have done the same thing when writing in the Press, when writing letters to editors, when attending parades and doing all the other things that they do in order to make known their views on a subject. 1 feel that one must take away some of the emotion and some of the humbug introduced by one or two speakers in this debate and look at the facts, on the premise that we must consider the extent to which the public purse can be used not to pay a desirable amount but to pay a possible amount. Governments must act responsibly. 1 believe that this Government has acted responsibly. I believe that it has not looked to that which may be vote catching or that which, to the mind of the emotional, may be the most desirable. Instead it has looked to that which is possible. One must look not only to the interests of the aged but also to the interests of the youth of this country. We must not be unjust to either. There is only so much money available in the public purse, and therefore it is a matter of balancing the competing interests. 
For instance, should we take away from education so that we can pay higher pensions? Should we take away from national development that which will give rise to a higher income, and therefore a growth in gross national product with a corresponding growth in the available amount in the public purse which can be directed towards the needs of the people who are aged or who fall into any of the other categories of persons in this community who receive social service benefits of one kind or another? Should we take away from that? May it not be a very shortsighted belief that we must take all now to give the maximum possible to those who are in need, to the detriment of the growth of the country and of the people in the community who in the future will be in need? There will be people in need in 10 years time, in 20 years time and in 50 years time and I would hate to see any government being so irresponsible as to jeopardise, for the sake of achieving cheap popularity at the moment, the possibility of those in need, in any of the categories that I have mentioned, in 20 years time or 50 years time receiving proper assistance from the public purse. But that would be the inevitable result of taking out of balance the matter of social service benefits. That would be an improper and irresponsible approach to budgeting. 
Judging by some of the aspects which we have heard discussed tonight one would gather that this was the most shocking Budget which had ever been produced. If one listened only to the speakers from the Opposition side one would gather that the meanness and parsimonious attitude of the Government had reached an unheard of level. To refute that. 1 suggest that if one extends in graph form the total annual payments of age and invalid pensions during the 1960s- that is, from 1960 until 1970- one will see that the year of the greatest noise in protest at the meanness of the Government happens to coincide on the graph with the year of the highest increase. It is incredible and strange that the more a government finds itself in a position to do responsibly, the louder becomes the objection that it has not done enough. I invite anyone who wishes to criticise what the Government has done to consider the payments that have been made. He will find that from the beginning of 1960 the graph shows a steep rise to 1962, then a shallow rise increasing steadily to 1969 and then a very dramatic rise in the 1969-70 period. 
Those who have been so critical today have tended to forget all the impositions upon the public purse which have arisen out of the provisions which have been implemented during the past 15 months. There has been a great number of them, but it is very easy to sit back and criticise by saying that they are not enough. Whether they are enough is one question. Whether they have made a very significant difference to the extent to which the public purse is being directed towards this particular disposition of funds - that is, age and invalid pensions - is another question. If you look at- the social welfare programme as a whole you will find that the graph similarly goes up but the rise is not quite as marked as it is in the field of attention to age and invalid pensioners. Strange as it may seem from listening to the debate in this chamber, they are the people upon whose behalf the loudest pleas have been made but who also in the past 15 months have received the greatest attention from the Government. It is curious but it is a fact. 

 Senator Gair said that he moved his amendment because, amongst other things, the Government did not want to take politics out of pensions. I find it rather extraordinary to believe that any government would not want to take politics out of pensions if it could do so responsibly. 
Whichever way you like to put it. Does it. make much difference? ls there some subtle difference between the two? If so, it escapes me. 1 would have thought it was taking politics out of pensions and not pensions out of politics, but at some later time you can perhaps develop the difference between the two. Be that as it may,  Senator Gair  said that the Government will not accept his amendment because it is not prepared to take politics out of pensions, or, I. add in deference to  Senator Cavanagh,  vice versa. I would delight in the day that pensions could be taken out of politics, or vice versa. It would certainly simplify government. It would certainly simplify the job of the parliamentarian. It would certainly simplify everything to do with the operation of this institution of Parliament and the activities of the Executive of this country. But could that happen responsibly? Could a responsible government take that step? 
I do not think that any responsible person wald say that a government - gets votes out of pensions. A government loses votes out of not doing enough for pensioners because there is always that part of human nature which claims that whatever you do is not nearly enough. That is one of the reasons why I, and I have no doubt that many others certainly would like to  see  the situation that  Senator Gair  envis ages when the Government no longer would have to accept the responsibility. It is nice to think about that, but if I am honest and ask myself whether 1 could live with my conscience if I said: 'We can shirk this responsibility', then I would have to say: 'No. we cannot shirk the responsibility because the people of Australia are entitled to a say iD the matter of pensions and the provision that is made by government for pensioners'. This is a matter in relation to which the people should have the opportunity to exercise their will over the Parliament, and they have that opportunity through the ballot box at an election. 
Let us not have a situation such as exists at the present time with the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Anyone who wants to complain or who wants to lay the ills of any section of the community at someone's feet can say that it is all because of what the Arbitration Commission has done. What can a member of the general public, if he believes that to be a fact, do about the Arbitration Commission? He has no standing before it. He cannot go and argue a case before it. He cannot  go  and put his interest before it. He cannot go and say why he thinks a decision should be something different. But he can do that with a government. So long as the social welfare programme as a whole is a matter in which the people have a say, I believe that the social welfare programme that is evidenced in the country will be a reflection of the will of the people. I believe that it is important that it should be so. 
For that reason, if for  no  other, I would oppose the amendment proposed by  Senator Gair.  I. suggest that it is a coward's way out simply to pass the buck. Further, I suggest that any government should be prepared to accept the responsibility of making a decision as to what the economy can stand in the form of non-productive payments - I do not say that in any derogatory sense- in which 1 include those under the social welfare programme, as opposed  to  productive payments in which I include, but not exclusively, things such as national development and education. A government must act responsibly. A government must make its own decision as to where the importance of those things lies and what is the will of the people in relation to the importance that should be given to any of those things. 
Passing on to what some honourable senators on the opposite side of the chamber have mentioned, I refer particularly to  Senator Fitzgerald  who said, if I noted his statement correctly, that had the income tax measures proposed by this Budget, which we debated just recently and the Bills in relation to which we shall be debating, not given any income tax relief to people with a taxable income of more than $16,000 per annum there would have been sufficient funds to pay an extra 50c a week to each age pensioner. To me, that is a curious statement. I have not had time since he made it to check it completely, but I have done such quick checking as 1 could. 
As 1 understand the position, an extra 50c per week per pensioner at the moment would amount to $26m per annum. Also as I understand the position from the figures contained in the taxation statistics for 1968-69, which would be a percentage but only a relatively small percentage smaller than those for the current year, the total taxable income of all taxpayers between $10,000 and $30,000 per annum - that is the only equivalent bracket I can take, although  Senator Fitzgerald  referred to those between $16,000 and $32,000 per annum because, as ali honourable senators know, no taxation relief at all is given to a person whose taxable income is more than $32,000 per annum, which means that I am taking a bigger area than that taken by  Senator Fitzgerald  - was $160m. Also, as all honourable senators know, the average relief given to people in that bracket was about 4 per cent. It may have been a little less. That relief amounts to about $7m. So,  Senator Fitzgerald's  statement impresses me only in that it displays the woolliness of thinking that has been evident in many of the other remarks that have been made by honourable senators on the opposite side of the chamber. 
One other example of this woolliness of thinking which has been evident repeatedly is the equation of the basic wage and the pension. The person who is in receipt of the basic wage is a single wage earner. He receives his wage, with which in theory he is expected to keep a wife and 2 or more children. As I understand it, the original concept was a wife and 2 children. That amount is regarded as the basic wage or the minimum wage. If we are to equate the pension with that we must look at the fact that the average pensioner unit is a pensioner couple. Therefore, we are dealing with not 1 person but 2 people who are in receipt of a pension, and we have to look at what is the combined income available to a pensioner couple. Al the moment that is $27.50 a week.  
If we add to that an amount for fringe benefits - not necessarily the $5 a week to which  Senator Buttfield  referred earlier as being an estimate made by the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  of the value of the fringe benefits excluding, as I understand it, those granted by the States which certainly are not inconsiderable - it takes it to $36 a week or a little more. If we deduct from the basic wage the amount of income tax that a basic wage earner would have to pay, the difference between the net amount a pensioner couple receives, together with fringe benefits, and the net amount which a basic wage earner receives after tax and on which he is expected to bring up a young family and to accumulate assets to purchase furniture and all the other things that a pensioner couple may not have to purchase at their stage of life- 
 Senator Keeffe  wishes to interject; he does not want to listen. That is typical of him. 1 do not intend to answer any further interjections from him. I will proceed with the explanation that I was giving. If we equate the pension and the basic wage in the way I have described, we find that there is a difference of only $3 or $4 a week, depending on the basic wages in the various States, between the 2 figures. A further point that I want to make is that  Senator Keeffe  completely misunderstood the comment that  Senator Buttfield  made earlier. 
Let me refer to the comment which  Senator Buttfield  made and which  Senator Keeffe  completely misunderstood when she made it. She was working out the amount that is paid by the public parse to pensioners and what that works out at per pensioner. It does not mean that every pensioner receives every bit of the fringe benefit. Some pensioners receive more; some receive less. But, if the amount is averaged out, it works out at about $5 per pensioner per week. That is apart from the amounts that are granted by the States, some of which are quite significant. In my State, for instance, the grants in respect of free travel, reductions in prices of entertainment and reductions in prices of electricity for heating and lighting and so on amount to . quite a considerable sum per week. But, leaving them aside, the amount paid by the Commonwealth public purse in respect of each pensioner couple is  $37.50  per week. 
I agree with  Senator Keeffe  insofar as he says that not every pensioner receives that. But that is what the public purse pays in respect of every pensioner. Obviously, this means that some pensioners receive more and some receive less. That is the average. When we equate that average with the basic wage, we see that this country is not doing a bad job if it can produce for the people who are in receipt of age pensions an amount that is nearly the equivalent of the basic wage; provided - and I add this proviso- (Quorum formed.) 
We have just had a quorum called by  Senator Keeffe  because only  2  members of his Party were in the chamber at the time and apparently he thought that my comments were of sufficient interest to members of his Party that he should call a quorum to ensure that a few more of them came into the chamber and heard what I was saying. I am delighted by the honour that he has bestowed upon me. I take the opportunity to thank him very much and to say: 'My day is made. Thank you,  Senator Keeffe'.  I return to the point I was making, which  Senator Keeffe  found so interesting. The point I was making was that this country, which at times is abused, belittled and denigrated by senators from the other side, is capable of providing an amount for its retired people who are in need and who have not saved during their working lives sufficient funds to enable them to keep themselves, for whatever reason that may be. This country is able to give them out of the public purse an amount which, when equated with the basic wage, is for a pensioner couple only  $2  or  $3  less than the basic wage if the tax which a basic wage earner would have to pay on bis basic wage is deducted from it. That is something of which we can be reasonably proud. 
I hasten to add that in saying that  1  do not mean to be taken as saying that that is the ultimate, that that is the objective and that the objective has been achieved. I think we have a long way to go. I hope to see many things achieved, but they will be achieved only by a continuation of a responsible approach to an equation of the division between those elements of expenditure which are productive of future income and those elements of expenditure which are to keep those who are in need of assistance from the public purse at a level at which they can get the maximum advantage available from the present community.  Senator Keeffe  indulged in some sarcastic criticism, both by way of interjection and by way of comment subsequently, of what  Senator Buttfield  said. I do not intend to traverse in any way his sarcastic comments other than simply to draw the attention of all honourable senators to the fact that it ill becomes anyone to become as emotional and as carried away as  Senator Keeffe  did in the exuberance of his sarcasm and in the exuberance of his abuse. He denigrated some of the people of this country in the way to which reference has been made already by  Senator Gair,  and  1  do no more than say that I can well understand the feeling exhibited by  Senator Gair  here tonight when referring to the matters raised by  Senator Keeffe.  To me, those matters are beneath contempt and I do not intend to comment on them further. 

 Senator Milliner spoke of the inferior standard of certain homes for the aged. He spoke of some of the problems of pensioners and of the homes in which they reside. I would like to have heard more from the honourable senator because, unlike  Senator Keeffe  he tends to be constructive. I am sorry that  Senator Milliner  is not here at the moment. He is a  speaker  who generally makes an attempt to make constructive comments. I would like to have heard more from him as to what he thought the deficiencies were and more particularly as to the ways in which he thought those deficiencies could be overcome. It is unfortunate that he raised this matter because one of the basic problems in any scheme administered in this country and involving human nature in any way - and I suggest that that is every scheme - is that they are subject to human foibles. One of the human foibles, which is obvious, is that not all people have the same capacity or the same efficiency. The types of efficiency and capacity of persons running and organising homes for the aged will vary tremendously. I would like to have heard  Senator Milliner  develop further the theme as to whether Big Brother's governmental control can be imposed upon a home for the aged and whether that will achieve a certain standard in every case. If he has a constructive suggestion to make, I am sure that not. only I but also the Minister in charge of the Bill, the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  and others on this side of the chamber would be interested to hear it. 
Nobody wants to see money from the public purse being wasted or frittered away. Nobody wants to see people who are in need of home nursing not receiving the best possible home nursing. The matter is not one for the kind of chirpish comment that  Senator Keeffe  has been trying to make by way of interjection during the past, few minutes, in between having a conversation with  Senator Willesee,  but is one for the kind of constructive approach that is often forthcoming from  Senator Milliner,  if at some other time he is prepared to give the Senate further details of the deficiencies and of the way those deficiencies can be  overcome.  I have not the slightest doubt that every person on this side of the chamber will listen to him with considerable attention. That will be a remarkable difference from the attention that honourable senators on this side paid to the speeches of other honourable senators opposite who were much more vociferous earlier in the day. In his speech  Senator Milliner  also referred to what 1 rather gathered to be a contributory superannuation scheme. He referred to the scheme in Holland. He held that country up as a paragon of virtue. I have figures and details of the various social security programmes throughout the world for the year 1967 only, but certainly in 1967 Holland was not quite the paradise which was painted by  Senator Milliner. 
I well recall  Senator Byrne's  experience in Surabaya and the delightful practice of providing one with an extra pillow called a Dutch wife. In 1967 Holland had a contributory scheme requiring contributions to be made throughout the working life of persons from the age of 15 to the age of 64. People had to contribute every year from the time they were 15 until they were 64 before they could obtain a full pension. If there were any years during that period in which they did not contribute then they were subjected to a percentage decrease in the amount which they would obtain. When one realises that it is only a little over 49 years since that scheme was introduced - it was introduced in 1913, I see from checking - there would not be very many people in Holland at this stage who would bc likely to benefit from the scheme because, I emphasise again, only those who contributed from the age of 15 to the age of 64 are entitled to a full benefit. If there were any years in which they did not contribute then they received a lesser amount. 1 mention this because I think it is important to remember this when we listen to some of the suggestions and criticisms that come from the other side of the chamber. Honourable senators opposite hold up other countries as paragons of virtue and berate this country for its various shortcomings. I think we should know in detail what are the exact circumstances in those other countries. No doubt some time later in the debate we will hear about the relatively low percentage of the gross national product which Australia spends on social services. This subject is a hardy annual which comes up at about the same time as the subject of Australia spending a low percentage of its gross national product on education. On so many previous occasions explanations and refutations have been made that I simply refer honourable senators to what I said last year during the debate on the social services legislation. That is all I say on that 
I pass on to what has happened generally in relation to social services. I point out to honourable senators that, under the Aged Persons Homes Act, this year the funds made available will be increased by 25 per cent. That is only one of the very substantial increases to be made, not only through the legislation we are now debating but also through ancillary Bills. The first proposition contained in the amendment proposed by  Senator Fitzgerald  is that the increases are inadequate. That depends upon the second proposition which claims that social service payments generally are inadequate to maintain an acceptable standard of living. 
What evidence have we heard in support of that claim? We heard an attempt to support the claim by  Senator Keeffe  who cited some rather spurious figures. Otherwise no facts or figures have been given to substantiate that proposition. As I recall it,  Senator Keeffe  relied upon basically the same figures in speaking of the costs faced by mothers in clothing children for school. I suggest that  Senator Keeffe  has never heard of the old hand-me-down system. It was good enough for me. It is good enough for my children and no doubt for great numbers of school children in this country. That old system very substantially reduces the costs involved in clothing school children. The figures cited by  Senator Keeffe  are quite unreal because they are based on the supposition that every parent of school children buys new clothing for each child and that no school child  s  ever accepts hand-me-down clothing from a brother or cousin to be worn for as long as it fits and then passed on to somebody else. 
The hand-me-down system used with school clothing in this country would be a credit to the Scots. In saying that I am not agreeing with people other than Scots who claim that the Scots are as mean as can be. It is one of the obvious economies which can be practised by parents and is commendable. I wholeheartedly applaud it, but apparently  Senator Keeffe  has never heard of it. Perhaps he is too proud to engage in such practices. Perhaps he just does not have enough brains for it. I do not know. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Fitzgerald)  - I ask  Senator Rae  to keep to the provisions of the Bill and to leave personalities out of the discussion. 
Thank you,  Sir. I  can understand that  Senator Kennelly  could not appreciate what I was talking about because he has not been listening. 1 was making the point in relation to  Senator Keeffe  that some of his comments would not bear investigation. Let us continue with the discussion of the Social Services Bill. I welcome and applaud the wide range of benefits that this legislation will bring to various sections of the community which this Government has endeavoured to serve, while displaying a sense of responsibility towards the other sections of the community which it also serves. 
I oppose the amendment as being mere political posturing typical of that engaged in to obtain a little, shall I say, publicity. It is not supported by fact or basic argument. It has been supported only by emotionalism and a tirade of abuse. I trust that the Senate will forget about the proposed amendment and will expedite the passage of this Bill so that the benefits it confers will be made available to the people at the planned time. If there is any delay in payment of these benefits beyond the beginning of October it will not be the fault of the Government. I hope that they will become available at that time. I hope that the Senate will pass the Bill with all due expedition so that we can then proced to get on with the development of our country through argument and positive suggestions as to how we can increase our gross national product and thereby provide in future for greater increases in our social welfare programme. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is it correct that an interdepartmental committee on the environment, under the chairmanship of the Secretary, Department of Health, has been formed recently and that a working party is in the course of preparation of a report? If that is correct, can the Minister indicate what progress has been made and to what extent the reports of the Senate Select Committees on air and water pollution are being used as a basis for the work of that interdepartmental committee? 
 I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister: Can he indicate what progress has been made in the consideration of the submission from the Tasmanian Government foc a Commonwealth grant to enable the most important Launceston to Bell Bay rail link to be constructed and thereby improve Tasmania's internal transport structure and facilitate entry to one of the main Bass Strait ferry ports? Can the Minister indicate when a decision is likely to be reached in relation to the submission? 
I have here some brief notes in relation to the proposal. The Premier of Tasmania has approached the Commonwealth for financial assistance associated with the construction of a rail link between Bell Bay and the existing State railway system. The request is being carefully examined by the Commonwealth and a decision will be given when this examination has been completed. That information does not add anything to what the honourable senator already knows but it is all I have at the present time. I will seek more advanced information for him. 
Can the Minister for Civil Aviation indicate whether the increased competition between international airlines operating to and from Australia is likely to affect adversely the prospects of Qantas Airways Ltd continuing to operate a safe, efficient and profitable airline? If so, what steps are being taken to ensure that the Australian airline is adequately protected from an oversupply of passenger aircraft and possible consequent reduction of standards? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I simply ask this: Does he know whether accusations have been made that photographs taken with a telephoto lens of sporting events and numerous other activities in our ordinary everyday life have been doctored? Are they not accepted as normal photographs taken by normal photographic means? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary .Industry. I ask: Is the Minister aware of the concern which has been expressed by the Associated Poultry Farmers of Australia and other poultry farmer organisations about the future of their industry and the fact that their industry is threatened with being taken over by a few large groups? Will the Minister request the Minister for Primary Industry to reconsider the French plan to introduce a controlled production scheme or some other similar scheme and inform the Senate whether the French plan or any other scheme will be implemented to prevent this sector of primary industry from being swallowed in the same manner as its products? 
Does the Minister representing the Attorney-General agree with the Leader of the Opposition.,  Mr Whitlam,  that members of the Australian armed forces who have not availed themselves of the opportunity of service with the Citizen Military Forces or have succeeded in showing themselves to be conscientious objectors should be able to pick and choose the areas in which they are prepared to serve? Does the Whitlam doctrine, as it has been named by the Press, mean that anyone who thinks he would rather serve in the pleasant surroundings of Singapore than in the jungles of Vietnam should just notify his commanding officer that he objects to the Vietnam war and expect a transfer? Would that doctrine govern the use of the armed forces under a Labor government if such a government ever came to power? 
Noone likes to see an increase in costs, except perhaps the recipient of that increase. No-one likes to be in the -position in which senators on this side of the chamber have found themselves this afternoon and this evening of getting up to support a Bill which increases charges to the public, charges to business and charges to people generally. But there are facts of life which members of the Parliament have to accept and have to deal with. One of those facts of life is that in relation to the Postal Department, the Post Office -  Senator Milliner  may be interested to hear the figures I am about to quote - there has been a very substantial increase in its cost of operation. The estimated loss, to which the honourable senator has made reference, for the year 1970-71 is Slim. I understand that that figure includes an estimated postal loss of N S3 Om. So it is not very hard to see where a substantial part of the estimated loss comes in. I understand that this is largely due to increased wages totalling $58m, of which $45m is a charge against operations and $l3m  a  charge against capital. 
I will quote a few more figures for the interest of  Senator Milliner  and any other honourable senator who would like some more detail. I understand that there was an increase in postal charges in .1967. Since that time wages paid by the Postal Department have increased by 29 per cent. This is particularly adverse to the profitability of this Department, because 70 per cent of the costs of the Department are associated with labour. So there has been a 29 per cent increase in the field which constitutes 70 per cent of overall expenses. On my calculations the increase due lo increased wages payments works out at about 21 per cent of total costs. 
I am telling the honourable senator how this anticipated loss is calculated, lt is because of the increases in wages payments which had taken place during this period of time. I also understand that some of these increases have been absorbed by productivity improvements. For instance, although there was  a  6 per cent increase in business last year there was an increase in staff of only 1.1 per cent. That is obviously the sort of economy which can be practised by any organisation such as this, and is one of the economies which has in fact been practised. I think perhaps  Senator Milliner  and other honourable senators may be interested to know that the labour cost component in handling an ordinary letter for the year 1969-70 was 4.66c. In 1967, when the last increase was made, it was 3.58c. 
These arc just some of the figures which I thought were of interest because  Senator Milliner  said he was not able to obtain any figures. I am sorry if I am repeating things he already knows. I will not indulge in any further repetition but will get on to some other matters. The honourable senator spoke about some union that will have to pay an extra $12,000 or so to post its journals. He said that there were about 40,000 to 45,000 copies per annum to be posted. Those figures show that the extra cost will bc about 25c per annum for each recipient. He also mentioned that the union dues at present are $34 a year. An increase of 25c on $34 is not a huge imposition. 1 would not have thought it was one which warranted the expenditure of such an amount of time as has been given to it. I therefore make no further comment on that matter. 

 Senator Willesee said something which 1 thought was somewhat extraordinary. He talked about the Post Office being operated as a faxing authority or possibly being operated as a taxing authority. He said that maybe it would be all right if this were done. Apparently his only objection is that he regards it as being carried out by some sleight of hand and he therefore believes that the increases would be justifiable if they are imposed on an open basis of increasing taxation. Apparently because it is not done with the open and avowed intention of increasing taxes he believes that we should support the amendment that he has moved to the effect that we should consider the desirability and practicability of removing the Australian Post Office from the administrative influence of the Public Service Board and of establishing a public corporation to manage the business. 1 do not know whether he thinks that it would act then as a tax gathering agency, but if it did. that would be all right because it was to be somehow separated from the Public Service Board. 
He went on to say that we have many examples of commissions and corporations already set up by the Commonwealth. He cited the Commonwealth Banking Corporation, the Commonwealth Railways, the Australian Whaling Commission, the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority, the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission and others. It is  of  interest to note that almost all  of  those are not divorced from the administrative influence of the Public Service Board. There is a system  of  formal consultation and concurrence between most  of  them and the Public Service Board in relation to the fixation  ot  salaries, the determination of conditions  of  employment, including disciplinary conditions, and the qualifications necessary for appointment to the permanent staff of the particular commission or corporation. What will be achieved by the divorcement that he has suggested? He has suggested that if the Post Office were divorced suddenly it somehow magically would become more efficient in its administration. However, as 1 have pointed out, the other organisations which he has suggested as models are still tied to an extent to the Public Service Board. 
Then he suggested that if the Post Office were a separate corporation it would not have to pay interest on the loans it received. That is a commonly expressed argument, an argument which suggests that by some means the Commonwealth Government is engaging in sleight of hand by charging interest on funds it makes available to the Post Office.  Senator Wilkinson  said that the Opposition did not object to the idea that a corporation or a department such as the Post Office should pay interest, so presumably we can dismiss entirely that argument as providing any support for the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Willesee. 
The only argument that I could gather from what was said by  Senator Willesee  or any of the other Opposition members who took part in the debate was that somehow or other commissions have a tremendous advantage in planning. T think those were  Senator Willesee's  words. I am delighted to hear him, or any Opposition member, suggest that the freedom of private enterprise is something which should be applauded and something which makes it desirable to take away from the control of the Government the administration of a department such as this. Perhaps one of the troubles with commissions or corporations is that they tend to have the disadvantages of both private enterprise and Public Service or government departments without really achieving in full the advantages of either. I do not think it is necessary to go into any great detail in answering further  Senator Willesee's  amendment. No additional arguments have been advanced to support it. 

 Senator Wilkinson said that the proposed increased charges will lead to more publications being printed and posted overseas, that we will still have to handle them and that this will increase the costs of the poSt Office in Australia without gaining any revenue. Perhaps he is not aware of the work which has been done by the Postmaster-General's Department through the Universal Postal Union in countering the possibility of that kind of thing happening. Perhaps he is not aware either of the fact that some 3 years ago the Australian Post Office was responsible for ensuring that printers and publishers in Australia were protected. Tt had become common for magazines and periodicals to be published and posted in other parts of the world and then distributed in Australia. Many of those periodicals and journals contained reply paid cards as a means of advertising and of increasing their own business. The Australian Post Office provided that no journal which included a reply paid business card could be distributed in Australia through the postal service unless it had been posted in Australia. The net effect was the protection of the Australian printing industry and the Australian Post Office against the vast increase of business from journals published and posted overseas and distributed in Australia. That is something which has not been recognised so far in the debate, something which was a compensating factor for any of the disadvantages which might flow to the printing and publishing industry as a result of the proposed increases. lt is also of interest to point out to  Senator Wilkinson  who expressed concern about this aspect that an agreement has been negotiated through the Universal Postal Union that 7c per lb will be paid from the middle of next year in respect of that part of the postage between countries which is being carried by the country which receives more than it sends out. Australia receives about 3 times as much from overseas as it sends overseas. This arrangement which has been negotiated by the Australian Post Office through the Universal Postal Union will compensate the 
Australian Post Office and therefore the Australian users of the Post Office and the Australian taxpayers. That is one of the steps that the Post Office is taking to safeguard Australia and Australia's interests, something for which it should be congratulated rather than condemned. 
As I mentioned earlier,  Senator Wilkinson  said tha; if the Post Office became an independent public corporation no-one would object to its paying interest on loans. He went on to say that if it were a separate corporation it could float its own loans. If it were to float a loan for $240m in 1 year one can imagine that some competition could develop between local commissions and Commonwealth commissions concerned with raising their own funds. One can imagine that the net result of competition between the new commission wishing to raise $240m this yearprobably more next year - and the Commonwealth Government seeking to raise loans on behalf of the Commonwealth and the States would be an almost inevitable forcing up of interest rates to the detriment of all who have to fund those interest rates; - basically, the taxpayers of Australia. 
I refer now to the proposed increase in the cost of special category mail, the matter Which seems to have received the greatest amount of attention both outside and inside this chamber. A number of people in writing letters to members of Parliament and in making statements in the Press have said how terrible it is that they were given no indication whatever that this was to happen. To my knowledge on a number of occasions the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme)  has previously indicated that this section of the Post Office was running at a severe loss, that that loss could not continue and that the general users of the Post Office could not be expected to continue the loss indefinitely. 
As has been mentioned by a number of people, the increase in charges this year will raise an additional $2m in a full year but it will still leave a loss on that section of the postal services of $6im to be carried by other people. I wonder whether it is fair to suggest that other people should have to carry that loss of S6im? Certainly it would be unfair to say that they should have to carry the whole loss of $9m. If it is necessary to bring the charges up to a realistic figure then it becomes quite interesting for any honourable senator to look through the correspondence he has received in the past few- weeks since the Budget was brought down and to read the multitude of letters which have flowed in from the various organisations and businesses. J have found it interesting to read them. I have been concerned on behalf of a number of the writers. They have my sympathy in the problems they have to deal with. But the inconsistencies which appear in quite a number of them are worthy of comment. 
It really boils down to a matter of opinion as to what is necessary and the degree to which it is reasonable to increase the income in order to overcome the loss and bring the postage rate up to an economic rate. The Australian Association of Business Publications suggested in its submissions to the Postmaster-General that postage rates on lightweight publications should be increased 6 times: that is, from  ic  to 3c. The Association appeared to be quite happy that that should happen. One can only gather from the remainder of the submissions that it is not concerned with the lightweight publications. They do not come into the Association's category so its attitude seems to be: Up it on somebody else but do not up it on us. It depends on how one looks at the matter. Another publisher in writing to members of the House of Representatives and honourable senators said that the increase in relation to journals was unfair and excessive. But he said he would be quite happy to sacrifice what he describes as associations, clubs or other parochial publications. In other words his altitude was: Let them go and pay the increase as long as I do not have to pay it. So this attitude goes on. As one goes from category to category one finds that everybody believes that he has the best case for paying virtually no postage and receiving a complete subsidy from everybody else. 1 would like to make a few comments in relation to some of those publications which may fall into the business journal, business publication or business circular category. I do not want anybody to think that I am referring to all the business journals and all the scientific and educational journals. Many of them are most worth while and are conducted by people who give voluntary service to try to achieve a worth while end. But others, and a consid erable number of them, have inundated the postal services with unadulterated nonsense, stuff which is absolutely worthless and which only increases the paper warfare battle with which everyone has to contend. Anyone in business or anyone living at home expects to receive in his mail almost every day a lot of unwanted articles through the post from people who are engaged in a hard sell, gimmicky circular, type of transaction. They are making as much use as they possibly can of the postal services and of whatever low rates are available to them. I can cite but one example of a publisher who posts me 3 copies of everything he sends out. He sends a copy to me as a senator, he sends a copy to me as a partner in a legal firm and he sends a copy to me at my former home address. Just for good measure in case I have missed those 3 copies he sends one to my wife at my new home address to make sure that 1 have seen it. I can tell him that every copy goes straight into the rubbish bin. 
Not one of them is invited. On a number of occasions 1 have written to this publisher asking him to stop sending these articles to all four addresses but nothing whatever happened except a continuation of these unwanted, unusable articles cluttering up the post and cluttering up the desk or wherever it may be that one tries to engage in the modern paper warfare. This is a typical example of things which, in my view, could be reduced substantially without any loss to the community. If those things were not done there would be an obvious saving in the cost of production of the articles which are sold. Anything which is sold by this hard sell method of sending a fantastic number of publications, a shotgun method of trying to obtain a market, obviously has a large component which is comprised of the cost of that method of marketing. 
I think it would not do the Post Office any harm if it did not have to bear the weight of so much of that type of material. It certainly would not do the average business person or home owner any harm if he did not receive the articles. Why should people be inundated with that type of material? If they want something why should they not be able to go somewhere, find out what is available and then select for themselves rather than have the posts inundated with this type of unwanted material. 
I realise that. I qualified what 1 said by saying that insofar as they can, people endeavour to make use of whatever concessions are available through the postal services for this type of operation. Various kinds of concessions enable this type of operation to be carried out. That is what I said. I did not say that they came into the category, wholly and completely, of the concessions for certain types of business journals. But I am sure that the honourable senator in his experience will agree that a lawyer receives many articles through the post which are quite unwanted and quite unnecessary. One wastes an awful lot of time in receiving and dealing with them because they are sen i out by people who are trying to engage in  a  bit of hard sell, not for the benefit of the recipient but for the benefit of themselves. If they have to bear added cost perhaps they will show a little discretion about whom they send these articles to and when they send them. Perhaps it will be to the general advantage of everybody if the postal service increases achieve that little exercise of discretion. Maybe this is a compensating factor to which we can look forward against all the disadvantage which inevitably will arise - I do not deny it for a moment - as a result of these increases in costs. 
The obvious disadvantage that every person who has to pay for  a  postal service will be paying a little more. Whatever effect that has on that person is a disadvantage in the same way that it is a disadvantage if he has to pay more for cigarettes or icecreams. 
If the honourable senator had been present and heard what I had to say instead  of  walking  in  2 or 3 minutes ago he would have heard me explain about that and the steps that were taken. 
The honourable senator indicates to me that he was listening. Perhaps he was listening outside and heard me say that 3 years ago the Post Office took considerable steps to overcome that problem. I understand that it is still a problem which is receiving careful attention from the Post Office to make sure that it continues the policy which it has adopted in the past, that is, of protecting the Australian printing industry by taking such measures as it can to ensure that the publications which receive the benefit of special rates in Australia are posted in Australia. If one has to post an article in Australia then one is more likely to print it in Australia. I understand that these are the steps which the Post Office is taking, has taken and will continue to take. I do not think honourable senators can say that the Post Office is taking irresponsible action in endeavouring to balance its budget and to maintain a situation in which the taxpayers generally do not have to pay the cost of all these incidental things. 
I point out to  Senator Murphy,  as I did earlier in the evening, that many of the publications concerned - be they club, association, trade union or any other sorts of journals - are worthwhile in themselves but are sent out to quite a number of people who never read them. They are sent out to everyone who is a member of the organisation concerned. The net effect of that is an awful waste of money in respect of printing them and also in respect of posting them. It may very well be that an increase in postal charges could be offset by requiring each member of the organisation to specify at the time of renewal of his subscription whether he wishes to receive the club journal, or whatever it may be. The people who will bother to put a tick in the tick box, presumably, will be the people who will obtain some benefit from receiving the journal. The large., number of people who receive a journal - be it a motoring, union or other sort of journal - open it and turf it straight into the rubbish bin will probably be eliminated. 
I am not suggesting that it should be, as  Senator Murphy  put  it,  a limited circulation carefully controlled. What I am suggesting is that  it  be a circulation to those people who are interested and are likely to read the journal, and that those people are the ones who signify that they wish to receive  it. 
I have no doubt that there are many organisations of which every honourable senator is a member, in which he is not particularly interested and to which he pays a subscription as a donation or a form of assistance to the organisation, but he does not pay - he has not the time to pay - a great deal of attention to every work that is written in the journal of the organisation. It may be that, if the sending out of monthly, fortnightly or weekly papers to the people who  are  not interested was eliminated, the club or association would he better off rather than worse off, even taking into account the increases in charges. 1 oppose the amendment because, as I mentioned earlier, no case has been made out as to why we should have this matter investigated or as to what advantages could accrue from such an investigation. Tn fact, the only points that have been mentioned in support of it have been demonstrated to be inaccurate. So, at this stage there is no purpose in supporting the amendment, but  there  is a situation in which I reluctantly but accepting the necessity support the Bill. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, who represents the Prime Minister in this chamber. By way of brief preface I wish to say that some time ago I inquired of the Minister whether he would ascertain what stage had been reached in consideration of the request which had been made on 4th September last by the Premier of Tasmania to the Prime Minister for assistance in construction of a rail link between Launceston and Bell Bay. Has any further information been made available to the Minister? 
I think the information that I have in front of me is the information I gave to the honourable senator some time ago. lt is true, as the honourable senator has indicated, that the Premier of Tasmania has made representations. These representations are still under consideration by the Commonwealth Government. That is the only information I have on this matter at present. 
I present from 93 citizens  of the Commonwealth of Australia the following petition: 
Tothe Honourable the  President  and Members of of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth - 
Whereas - 
It has now been recognised that students as members of the University Community have a role and contribution in the making of University policies and decisions. (b)The Council of the Australian National University is the highest decision-making body and the final authority for the determination of policy within that University. 
The University Council has approved the request of students and recommended to the Government that two elected undergraduates and the  President  of the Students' Association be members of that Council. 
The Government has only agreed to add the  President  of the Students' Association to the existing one undergraduate representative on the Council. 
The workload involved, the representation required, and the acknowledged necessity for continuity at Council level, demand that at least two elected undergraduates in addition to the  President  of the Students' Association, represent the Student Body on the Council. 
Your petitioners request that your honourable House make legal provision for: 
A further undergraduate representative onthe Council of the Australian National University. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Motion (by  Senator Rae)  proposed: 
That the petition be read. 
By way of preface, I refer to a question asked by me on 23rd September last about the setting up of an inter-departmental committee on the environment and the extent to which that committee is making use of the reports of the Senate select committees on air and water pollution. I now ask the Minister repre senting the Minister for Health whether she has any further information on the matter. 
The conference held its inaugural meeting under the chairmanship of the DirectorGeneral of Health on 16th July 1970. At this meeting the establishment of an inter-departmental working party was resolved and the terms of reference of the working party were to inquire into and advise the conference on the most appropriate methods of approach for the national resolution of the problems of the Australian environment. A report on the formulation of a Commonwealth and national policy on the environment has been prepared by the working party and will be considered by the conference when it reconvenes on 1st October, which is today. 
asked the Minister repre  senting the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What is the number of hostesses engaged by each internal airline in Australia in each type of aircraft. 
What is the total amount paid by each internal airline in Australia in respect of (a) wages and other allowances. (b) training expenses, and (c) any other expenses directly related to the employment of hostesses. 
What is the total cost (other than in respect of employment of hostesses) to internal airlines in Australia of the. provision of (a) meals and light refreshments (other than liquor) and (b) liquor. 
By what percentage could internal airline tare charges be reduced if the number of hostesses on aircraft were reduced to one on each and the in-flight provision of meals, light refreshments and liquor were discontinued, other than on flights lasting more than 2 hours. 
My question is directed to the Minster representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Will he request the Minister for Primary Industry to consider further and make a full statement on the question of the establishment of a sugar beet industry in Tasmania to supply the local market and thereby save the substantially increased shipping costs and the sugar subsidy made available to certain Tasmanian industries and to compensate Tasmanian farmers for the substantial loss of their pea and bean market which, at least partially, has arisen because of failure to protect that industry from unfair competition from New Zealand and from competion from other Australian States which do not have the shipping freight disadvantage of Tasmanian growers? Will he draw his colleague's attention to the fact that considerable investigation of the growing of sugar beet has been undertaken in Tasmania and that overseas beet growing experts have expressed confidence in the potential of that industry for Tasmania? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport aware that it has been claimed in Tasmanian newspaper reports that the Tasmanian Premiers request for Commonwealth assistance in the construction of the 
Bell Bay rail link has been supported by the Department of Shipping and Transport? If this is true, will the Minister request his colleague to take all possible steps to ensure that the earliest possible decision is made and announced in order to ensure that plans for the development of the wood chip export industry can be finalised as quickly as possible? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. By way of brief preface, 1 refer to a question asked by me on 23rd September 1970 inquiring as to when a decision may be made in relation to the Tasmanian Premier's request for assistance to construct the Launceston to Bell Bay rail link. At the time the Minister said he would seek information for me. On 30th September 1970 I again asked a question in relation to that matter. Now, bearing in mind the importance of this project to the development of the huge wood chip export industry in northern Tasmania and to the development of better facilities for transport for interstate trade, I ask again: Can the Leader of the Government in the Senate give any further information as to the progress of the consideration of this request and as to when any decision may be given? 
My understanding is that the position I stated in reply to the honourable senator's previous question has not changed. T shall make some inquiries during question time, and if there is any variation to be made to the answer I gave previously I shall intercede to give a supplementary answer. 
 Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for National Development been drawn to today's announcement of a new 10-year wood chips contract between Japan and Russia? Will this new source of supply to the Japanese paper industry in any way limit the prospects of development of the wood chips industry in Australia? Will the Minister ascertain the price agreed upon between Russia and Japan and give that information to the Senate? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Treasurer been directed to the statistics now published in relation to the rate of inflation in Australia in the September quarter which show a rise of only 2.4 per cent per annum in the consumer price index? Does this show the success of the measures taken by the Commonwealth Government to curb inflation? Does this do great credit to the Government's fiscal policies at a time when the inflation rate in the United States and New Zealand is approximately 6 per cent per annum and is a matter of very great concern to both of those countries? 
The honourable senator's question is quite interesting against the background of an exchange of questions and answers that the Leader of the Opposition and f had yesterday on this question of fiscal policy. As honourable senators will recall, yesterday I pointed out that the policy of the Government in relation to the use of the interest rate was a matter of fiscal policy which had regard to the overall economy. It so happens that fortuitously there appeared in the Press this morning some figures which have been provided by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics and which relate to the rate of increase in the consumer price index. This is a classic example which demonstrates that the policies of the Government in relation to the problem of inflation have been very effective. As  Senator Rae  points out, the Press report today says that the rate of increase in retail prices slowed in the September quarter just ended and that the increase for the 6 State capitals was 0.6 per cent. Of course, that is the same as saying, as  Senator Rae  did, that the increase was at the rate of 2.4 per cent per annum. 
This is the national Parliament. It operates in a national way in the interests of the good government of all the people of Australia. This is the argument that I am putting. lt is quite obvious that the figure will fluctuate. It does not remain the same. There are peaks and troughs in every field. But over the whole of Australia the increase in the consumer price index in the September quarter was 0.6 per cent. As  Senator Rae  points out very properly, that is a complete vindication of the fiscal policy of the Government in relation to what it was necessary to do in order to have a stabilising effect on the Australian economy. In fact, we are receiving the reward from it, as is demonstrated by the government statistical figures. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. Can the Minister state now or will he ascertain and inform the Senate whether the question of State government acceptance of the principles of the trade practices legislation is still on the agenda of the Standing Committee of Commonwealth and State Attorneys-General for further discussion? Can the Minister indicate whether any progress is being made in getting governments other than the Tasmanian and South Australian Governments to refer power to enable the Commonwealth legislation to be more effective? 
1 welcome the opportunity that  Senator Murphy  and the Opposition have given to us this afternoon to speak on this subject. There are many aspects of the subject which could well bear discussion and perhaps a little investigation. I was sorry that  Senator Murphy  did not see fit to endeavour in any way to substantiate his claims and his arguments with facts and figures. That matter has already been commented upon by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator- Sir Kenneth Anderson)  and also by  Senator Sim,  so I shall not dwell on that, other than to make one or two remarks. My first comment is that  Senator Murphy  saw fit to draw on 2 examples only, one being a Tasmanian survey which he said was conducted some 10 years ago, and the other being an allegation of collusive tendering in relation to councils and semi-government organisations. Both those examples were matters referred to at considerable length and on a number of occasions by the 2 former 
Attorneys-General,  Sir Garfield  Barwick and  Mr Snedden.  Both of them referred to those matters in speeches supporting the introduction of the trade practices legislation. 
Apparently  Senator Murphy  is not able to find anything that has happened since the trade practices legislation was introduced; otherwise, presumably, he would have made some reference to it. Perhaps one can gather then, if he is unable to find examples, that the trade practices legislation has been effective, at least to some degree, in reducing the incidence of that type of activity which it was intended to overcome. But in discussing this problem we really get down to the question of price increases. As has. been stated by  Senator Sim  and by the Leader of the Government, this is a world trend. It is not a question of what Australia can do. Australia is now inextricably bound up in the total financial and economic world. It cannot sit out by itself and say that it will act in a way which will enable it to be completely unaffected by anything that happens in other parts of the world. In the short time available on an occasion like this it is not possible to develop that at length, but J should like to make some comparisons with Australia's situation and see how true are the allegations which have been made by a number of honourable senators opposite. lt is important to bear in mind that Australia has been able, during the last 15 years, to have an average unemployment rate of 1.5 per cent for the last 5 years, 2.1 per cent for the 5 years preceding that and 1.6 per cent for the 5 years preceding that. The net result is that during the last 5 years the unemployment rate has been brought down - I suggest by good government - to the lowest that it has been in the last 15 years, taking the average over the 5-year periods. We find that now it is down again, far below the average for the last 5 years. That is the basic context in which we look at the problem of price increases. How bad have been the price increases? Again if we look at the figures we find that between 1955 and 1960 the average price increase was 3 per cent and between 1960 and 1965 it was 1.9 per cent. That can be directly related to the fact that unemployment was much higher during that period. The 2 things appear to be inextricably woven together. In other words, the higher the unemployment the lower the likelihood of price increases. 
During the past 5 years there has been an average price increase of 3.1 per cent. As has been stated already in this debate, for the September quarter of this year the price increase is down to an average of 2.4 per cent, which is an extraordinarily low figure for any government to be able to achieve in its control of an economy in which at the same time there is an extremely low unemployment rate. The words of the 'Economic Survey' produced this month by the Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research in Melbourne are worth repeating for the benefit of those who perhaps do not understand this topic. The article states: 
Given a continuation of the 1954 to 1966 average rate of increase of award wages at about 3.2 per cent a year, Professor Nevile- 
I pause to say that on the next page of the survey the writers say: 'Our view broadly agrees with Professor Nevile's', so they are supporting what he said. The article continues:  believes that with 2 per cent unemployment we can expect prices to rise by 2 to 2.2 per "Cent a year; and with 1.5 per cent unemployment, prices can be expected to rise by about 3 per cent a year. These expectations are confirmed by our experiences in the 3 5-year periods since 1955-56 . . . 
This is a reference to the figures which I have cited already. The article continues: 
With unemployment around 1 per cent, prices might rise by 3.5 to 3.7 per cent a year.  1 pause there to say that this Government has achieved a situation now of less than 1 per cent unemployment and has been able to bring down the price rises for the last quarter to an average of 2.4 per cent per annum. The article goes on: 
Prices might remain stable only if unemployment was as high as 5 per cent which would fairly clearly, however, be a level politically and socially unacceptable in Australia. 
The costs of unemployment are to be measured in terms of the economic and social suffering of the individual workers affected; and the loss of output, particularly affecting investment goods and consequently future productivity, and the unease of social conscience suffered by the community as a whole. 
It is quite clear that the view of those very well known and well qualified economists is that these 2 matters are inextricably bound up and that only by the very best of good government are we likely to be able to keep prices down to a low rate of increase while we have a high percentage of employment. If that is the situation it is unreal to suggest, as a number of speakers have, that Australia is in a position where it not only can stop inflation but also can actually reverse the process. Apparently it is suggested by some speakers that by some magical means the application of the trade practices legislation in a tougher form would bring about a permanent deflationary effect. This seems to me to be quite incredible. What will be the effect of preventing price maintenance, which is aimed at by the trade practices legislation - where the maintenance is at too high a level, and the forces of free competition within the market cannot have free play? What is aimed at by the legislation is to keep free competition. If industry and commerce endeavour to prevent that free competition, then I agree wholeheartedly that steps should be taken to ensure that there is freedom of competition. 
What would be the position if prices were maintained at a fraction above what they should be? lt does not matter, for the purpose of the argument, what the fraction is; we will say it is 10 per cent. If there was free competition and if this boosting of prices was cut out, all that would happen would be that the price would be reduced by 10 per cent in one go. But the effect of inflation would still continue to push prices up in every other year. The trade practices legislation alone cannot have an effect on inflation. It can have an effect only on the quantity of goods which can be purchased out of the income of the person who is purchasing them. It does not have any effect and it has not any real relationship to inflation. Almost every indication is that Australia is doing extremely well in the world field in relation to inflation. A survey conducted by the Associated Industrial Consultants Ltd, which is a member of the Imbucon Group of the United Kingdom, shows that in the period from 1963 to 1969 the rise in the cost of living index in Australia was 20 per cent, compared with Japan, for example, where it was 39 per cent, and the United Kingdom where it was 29 per cent. 
I will cite some other examples. I just picked om Japan as one of several examaples 
 1 will leave Japan aside and take the United Kingdom where the rise was 29 per cent. In the United States of America the rise was 22 per cent. Turning to more recent times, we find that Australia is at the head of the list of countries quoted by the Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research in relation to increases in retail prices. In 1969 the increase in Australia was 2.9 per cent, as opposed to New Zealand where it was 4.9 per cent, the United States where it was 5.4 per cent, and Canada where it was 4.5 per cent. 
These are rates of increase in retail prices. I have quoted the percentage increase in the cost of living index. I showed that in relation to other comparable countries, other than West Germany. Australia's record since 1963 in keeping down inflation has been better. 
I will make the speech, if I. may. The honourable senator may talk to  Senator Withers  outside. I suggest that Australia's record in keeping down to the minimum the percentage increase in retail prices is a very enviable one. In 1969 the rate of increase in the United Kingdom was 5.4 per cent, in France it was 6.4 per cent, in the Netherlands it was 7.4 per cent, and in Japan in 1970 it was 7.7 per cent. In 1969 the rate of increase in Australia was 2.9 per cent, and for the current September quarter it is 2.4 per cent. I think Australia has something to be proud of rather than something to be condemned for. I am sure that I can get some encouragement from the fact that  Senator Milliner  indicates his agreement with the propositions that I put forward by nodding. I am delighted that that is so. 
In the brief time still available to me 1 would like to refute some statements made by honourable senators opposite.  Senator Cant  stated that the reduction of income tax as outlined in the Budget was 10 per cent on incomes up to $16,000. Despite my interjection informing the honourable senator that he was wrong, he still insisted that I was wrong. To put the situation right, I quote from page 17 of the Treasurer's Budget Speech: 
On taxable incomes up to $10,000 there will be a reduction of some 10 per cent in tax payable. Above $10,000 the percentage reduction in tax will taper off, reaching 4.4 per cent at $20,000 and cutting out altogether at $32,000. 
As has been evident in a number of speeches from the other side of the chamber this afternoon, it is a pity the facts were not checked before  Senator Cant  made his statement. 
To deal with one or two other matters covered in the review given by the Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research in Melbourne, it is quite interesting to look at actual rates of growth from 1962 to 1968. Australia has been able to achieve a gross national product increase at constant prices of 5.6 per cent. Other figures given are West Germany, which is always known to have a booming economy, 4.3 per cent; the United States, 4.9 per cent; New Zealand, 3.9 per cent; and France, 5.3 per cent. Australia again is at the head of the list of countries quoted as being comparable in relation to the growth in gross national product. 
From 1962 to 1968. 
I do not have that figure in front of me but I have no doubt we had a continuation of that trend, because the Treasurer in his Budget Speech referred to it as 5.5 per cent, 1 think. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. By way of brief preface I wish to say that a 25 per cent concession is given at the moment by domestic airline operators to students at universities, colleges of advanced education, theological colleges and some technical colleges, subject to certain conditions, but those students who attend teacher colleges, which in a number of instances are the only tertiary education facilities in an area, are excluded altogether. Will the Minister request the domestic airline operators to reconsider the application of the concession which is given to students so that students at. teacher colleges will receive it? 
I hold certain views which I will elaborate further but by way of a brief introduction I must say that substantially 1 agree with a large part of what every honourable senator has said during this debate.It is striking, I think, how little difference there is. I would identify the difference in this way: It is not a question of whether you have the opportunity for a separate Bar to exist, or whether you have an opportunity for a separate Bar within itself to regulate its members in some ways. The question is: Do you have 2 bodies or one body ultimately responsible for the government and good conduct of the profession insofar as it is necessary to provide for this? I see it in those terms. 1 see it in terms only of whether we recognise any voluntary association where we go to the length of prescribing, by legislation or by ordinance, a full set of rules to govern all of the practitioners. Do we then recognise sectional interests by giving the voluntary associations which represent those sectional interests some special standing in the legislation or the ordinance? To me there is only a question of degree in the difference between providing for the recognition of a Bar Association and later - if in 5 years we had a group of conveyancers, a group of tax experts or something like that who wanted to form an association - providing such an association with the same rights as those which have been described by  Senator Wright  this afternoon and referred to by others, namely, the right to object to the admission of any person. 
It seems to me to be wrong that a body representing only a sectional interest should have the right to appear to object to the admission of a person who has no intention of ever being a member of that sectional interest organisation. 1 demonstrate whatI mean by saying that if a man or a woman is qualified for admission and wishes to practice as a solicitor only, with no intention of ever appearing in court - many people who graduate have that intention and never depart from it - we have a situation in which there is a Law Society whose function it is to represent the whole of the profession within the Australian Capital Territory, and a Bar Association which is representative of only a sectional interest - a small group. That small group may appear, may oppose and may make reference to the disciplinary committee if it alleges that there has been some misconduct. It would appear to me to be unfortunate to divide the profession in that way. We get back to the situation of a divided profession being continued in this ordinance, not in exactly the same way as was proposed in the last ordinance but not in so dissimilar a way as to  be  inconsequential. 
Why should they not do it through the one body which is set up by the ordinance to represent the whole profession? If the members who practise solely at the Bar wish to have a particular action taken, if they cannot persuade the Law Society which represents the whole body of the profession that that action should be taken. I am not sure that they should have any special standing before the court or disciplinary board for their interest, their objection or their complaint to be pursued. I see no reason why they, any more than any other possible association which represents the legal profession in the way it is to be set up or is to be continued in this Territory, should be specially provided for. I hasten to add that I am not to be taken as saying that there should not be a Bar Association. I am not to be taken as saying that there should not be people who practise solely as barristers. Insofar as  Senator Murphy  may or may not have indicated his preference for people to practise only as specialists, I say that they can go a little further if they wish and practise as specialists who separate themselves, by agreement, from other members of the amalgam. This gets back to the question of control and to the question of whether you can have only one body to govern what I believe to be one profession. 
Last year I expressed a view which resulted in my not supporting the motion for the disallowance of the ordinance. My reasons were that I believed at that time that there were advantages to be gained if the trust account provisions, the fidelity fund provisions and a number of other provisions were introduced as soon as possible: that the disallowance would be unfortunate; and that the matters to which those who moved for the disallowance objected could be corrected at some time. The more that I have thought about it since, the more I believe that I was wrong and the more I think that if it is possible to divorce the 2 as  Senator Murphy  has suggested, then it would be preferable to take a risk on the extent to which the fidelity fund and the audit and trust account provisions applied and to try to maintain the position where there was only one governing body for the whole of the profession. Therefore, when the matter duly conies to a vote I shall vote for the disallowance of all of the sections that have been moved by  Senator Murphy  other than section 6. If section 6, which is the definitions section, is disallowed there is no hope, in my view, that the audit and trust provisions will work. 
However, there is some reasonable hope and one has to look to other considerations before one finally makes up one's mind. My mind has been made up finally by the contents of a document which is in these terms: 
We the undersigned, being members of the Council of the Law Society of the Australian Capital Territory advise that, appreciating the disallowance of the Legal Practitioners Ordinance 1970 would mean that for a further period of at least 6 months there would be no Ordinance regulating the profession in the Territory, we oppose the introduction of the Legal Practitioners Ordinance 1970 as it in fact provides for a divided profession in the Territory. We support all necessary steps to oppose the introduction of the Legal Practitioners Ordinance 1970 including the disallowance pf the Ordinance in the Senate. 
That document was signed by 10 of the 15 members of the Council of the Law Society. I am told that only 2 members refused to sign it. The others were not available, being away from the Australian Capital Territory at that time, so of 12 people available to sign it 10 did sign a document which . makes clear their opposition to this ordinance. I refer now to a statement which was prepared at one time on behalf of the Law Society of the Australian Capital Territory. That statement is contained in the annual report of the then President of the Society. It reads: 
The hope expressed by me in my report for last year that we would then shortly have a new Ordinance was unfortunately not realised, but, as members know, an Ordinance was made on the 13th August 1970, to come into operation on a date to be fixed by the Minister by notice in the Gazette. When a draft of the Ordinance was sent to the Society for comments, the Council prepared and submitted to the Attorney-General a considerable number of suggestions and 1. am pleased to say that many of these have been adopted. However, it still remains a matter for regret that, whilst the Ordinance provides for a single form of admission to practice, nevertheless the basic structure nf the profession, as contemplated by the Ordinance, is that of a divided profession. In particular, it is regrettable that the Ordinance recognises two professional bodies as representing the profession in the Territory. In a profession as small as ours, where the heavy burden of organising and directing the affairs of the legal profession in the Territory has to be borne by all too few persons, I believe that the best interests of the profession are served by all practitioners lending their weight to the work of the Society. As you know, this view is shared by a number of members of the Bar Association, some of whom have served on the Council of the Society, and it is hoped that this situation wilt continue. There can be no doubt that the Society is the only body which truly represents and speaks for the profession in the Territory and I believe it deserves the support and co-operation of all lawyers in the Territory, no matter in what area they may follow their profession. To date the Society has been fortunate indeed in having that support and it has gained strength from tha active part taken in its affairs by members of the Faculty of 
Law, Government lawyers and Service lawyers, all of whom have worked earnestly with practitioners to develop and improve the practice of law in the Territory. The task of creating and building up a strong legal profession in the Territory is a long and arduous one, and the cause will suffer greatly if the new Ordinance should be interpreted by anyone as involving a withdrawal of support for the Society by any section of the profession. 
That report was written by a barrister; one who was practising not as a barrister and solicitor but as- a barrister and who, nevertheless, was prepared to be a member of the Law Society, to serve on the Council of that Society and even to take on the onerous task of being its president, lt shows that, insofar as the attitude of the Bar Association in this Territory is in favour of the ordinance, that attitude certainly is not supported by all its members. J understand that previously, in relation to a prior ordinance, a unanimous resolution was passed by the members of the Law Society in special meeting, and in that resolution they condemned any ordinance that would introduce a divided profession in the ACT. That is the summary of the meaning of the morion which was given to me by a member of the Council of the Society. 
I point to one other matter that has been raised by the Law Society. This appeared in the 'Canberra Times' of 20th May 1970, where it was reported as follows: 
Another Law Society criticism of the ordinance is that, while recognising the Bar Association, it gives no directions on who may be its members, their qualifications and their rules. 
This seems to me to be another unfortunate matter. The situation is that the Law Society is given equal status with the Bar Association for the purposes of some of the basic matters of control of the profession - in appearing before the disciplinary board and taking action in relation to admissions and the sanctions to be imposed on practitioners who are guilty of misconduct. The Law Society and its rules are governed by the ordinance. But the Bar Association is not even defined by the ordinance as being anything other than the Bar Association. No rules by which it is bound are provided for in the ordinance. There is no such provision. No provision in the ordinance goes any further than simply saying that the Bar Association is the Bar Association. lt may be that at some time in the future that Bar Association will have rules which will make quite impossible the continued co-existence of the 2 bodies in the proper functioning of these provisions in relation to the disciplinary board and the admission of practitioners. That may be - one would hope that it would be - farfetched. But. one knows that there have been occasions on which differences have arisen between separated members of a profession, be it the law or any of the other professions, and that such differences can lead to difficult situations which may make people act in an unfortunate way. I would not like to see the provision that we are debating this afternoon give rise to an opportunity for further and greater divisions within the profession to take place and to be developed. 
I do not know what the attitude of  Senator Murphy  and his Party will be to section 6. As I mentioned before, 1 would not support its disallowance simply in the hope that, whilst leaving that section out, the remainder of the provisions which are not or may not be disallowed will have some effect. In summing up I do not cover again all the ground that is common ground in relation to amalgam professions and all the other matters that have been commented on: i simply say that, in the interests of the overwhelming majority of the legal profession of the ACT and in pursuance of something in which I believe, I intend to vote for the disallowance of these provisions. 
I would not  vote  for their disallowance simply because f thought that particular way; i would nol vote for their disallowance simply because the overwhelming majority thought that way, although both of those are convincing arguments. But when one can sec that the 2 views coincide and that the public interest is not being adversely affected in any way - in fact, although 1 do not intend to develop this argument, it may very well be that the public interest is being enhanced by a better organised profession and that a better organised profession may very well be the profession that suits the majority of the members, which is the normal principle that one would expect to apply- one is in the position where one should vote for the disallowance of the relevant provisions, and f propose to do so on this occasion. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the MinisterinCharge of Aboriginal Affairs. To safeguard the industries of Australian Aboriginals from increasing competition from cheap overseas-produced imitation bark paintings, boomerangs and other traditional Aboriginal products and to assist the Aboriginals in retaining and building their markets, both domestic and overseas, for such products, which represent their culture, will the Minister request the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs to investigate the possibility of taking action to legislate to license the manufacture and sale of any such products and to secure the widest possible patent and design rights for Australian Aboriginals? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Is the Minister aware that the road toll is increasing at a very rapid rate and is now soaring towards the level of 4,000 deaths per annum? Does the Minister agree that the road toll is now so high in deaths and injuries that it must be regarded as being in the nature of a permanent national disaster? Will the Minister request the Minister for Shipping and Transport to reconsider the extent of the Commonwealth Government's activity in providing funds and personnel for research by road traffic authorities into driver training and licensing, and to consider assisting or encouraging the introduction and use of helicopter ambulances, at least in the main urban areas, so as to assist in reducing the incidence and severity of road accidents. 
My question is directed to the Minister  for  Supply. By way of brief preface I refer to the fact that several times in the past 2 years I have asked questions relating to the United States proposal for the establishment of an Omega navigational station in Tasmania and the Minister's answers then given are set out in full in Hansard. Can the Minister supply any further information as to the stage reached in the consideration of this proposal and any negotiations with the Australian Government in relation to this matter? 
 I shall speak very briefly about this amendment. I have certain reservations about it. I support it but I simply wish to express the view that 1 wonder whether this is setting a precedent which should be followed without further consideration and thought. I wonder whether in similar instances some consideration should be given to the proper use of the words 'may' and 'shall'; whether they are an interference with the judicial discretion and the judicial power and whether it is appropriate for the Parliament to prescribe in that way what action shall be taken by a court. A number of questions arise but I do not wish to deal with them at this time of night. I support the amendment. I simply raise the question so that it is on record for consideration. 
I do not at the moment. I simply raise it for consideration at some future time. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Health been directed to a report that a collection organised by various community service organisations in Launceston last weekend resulted in over 1000 lb of unwanted medical drugs being collected from homes in that area and that the drugs were subsequently buried? Since the advantages of this type of activity are so obvious, will the Minister suggest to the Minister for Health that he take steps to encourage similar unwanted' medical drug collection drives in various parts of Australia with the object of collecting up from all the homes the maximum amount of unwanted drugs which at present are lying about in various places io those homes? 
I have listened with some interest and concern to  Senator Cavanagh's  speech and would like to reply to some of the points he raised. When the proposed amendment was first mentionedI was as concerned as  Senator Cavanagh  about it. I do not like now and did not like then the idea of abolishing personal service. Discussions ensued as to the reasons for the practices followed throughout Australia in this particular matter and I must admit that I was very surprised to learn of the extent to which a new practice had been introduced throughout Australia for the service of summonses both of civil courts and courts charged with determining questions of breaches of duty and simple offences. That change has been most marked, not just in the last year or two but over quite a few years. It may have come about as a result of a changing attitude towards the efficacy or otherwise of service by post. It seems that the result of a very careful study made by governments of all political shades in the States, Labor as well as Liberal and Country Party governments- 
Seantor RAE - I am coming to that. The matter has also been the subject matter of a study by parliaments in every State. It has been studied by committees, law societies and various law enforcement bodies. It has been the subject of a considerable amount of investigation and study over the past few years. The net result is that the apparent conclusion reached is that, provided adequate provision is made for re-hearing if necessary, the method of service provided for in the proposed amendment is the best method to be adopted in the interests of efficacy, economy and convenience. I share with  Senator Cavanagh  a concern whenever it appears to me that the rights of an individual may be infringed in the interests of any one of the 3 factors I have mentioned, lt seems that in the amendments moved by the Minister and the amendments foreshadowed in the circulated list we will achieve adequate safeguards of the rights of individuals because in the unlikely event - it happens sometimes - that a person does not receive a summons, adequate opportunity will be given for that individual to go before a court and obtain a re-hearing. 
My own personal experience, and I am sure that it is shared by other members of the legal profession, is that providing a valid reason for having the first hearing and judgment or order set aside is submitted, it will be set aside and the case reheard. Terms may be imposed for a rehearing, but that is a matter for a court. I have sufficient faith in the operation of our judicial system to believe that this is the sort of function which a court can adequately exercise. On the balance of convenience it appears that it is unreal to have to get a police officer to act as a process server for every single summons that has to be served. In the interests of the protection of the community and the other interests served by the police for the community it is unreal to occupy the time of policemen in process serving. It is also unreal to take the stand that a postman cannot act as a process server, with safeguards; that is, by registered post or by the alternative means of an AR card, which was discussed but not adopted. There is no reason to believe that that method is not just as adequate as the method of service by a policeman. 

 Senator Cavanagh pointed out that a registered letter could be left with a person involved in a matrimonial dispute or in other circumstances which would cause the person involved not to receive notice of his trial. But that situation exists at the moment because much of the process serving in the various fields in Australia involves leaving a summons with a person over the age of 16 years, and apparently over the age of 16 years, and apparently resident on the premises. So it is clear that the method provided for in the amendment is no worse than that which has been adopted for many years.- 1- therefore suggest to  Senator Cavanagh  that his concern in that particular respect is not justified. 
A number of the matters before us have been very carefully considered, not only by the Government and its advisers but also by honourable senators on this side of the chamber who have spent a considerable time in studying them. I think it is unfair and unworthy of  Senator Cavanagh  to imply that the only reason why honourable senators on this side of the chamber have shown concern and consideration is because of the points raised by  Senator McClelland.  I do not wish to take anything away from  Senator McClelland.  I simply justify what we have done by way of consideration as being in the interests of the protection of the individual. Provided adequate safeguards exist for a person to apply for the setting aside of a conviction obtained without his knowledge, on the balance of convenience 1 believe the interests of the individual will be adequately protected. . lt is my belief that until such time as this amendment is carried the safeguards are not adequate. With the amendment they will now be adequate. In other words, if one has 2 years in which to apply as of right, and after that one has such time as a court may allow, the interests of the individual will be adequately protected. I have every confidence that the courts will ensure that those interests are adequately protected. 
The only other matter I wish to mention is in relation to what  Senator Cavanagh  said. He used an expression which f would like him to reconsider. He spoke about serving notice at the address at which the pimp says the defendant lives'. I think that was rather an unfortunate expression to use about an officer who is charged with the function of being an inspector. 
If the honourable senator reads the Act he will see that the person who makes the complaint is an officer of the Postmaster-General's Department. I suggest that  Senator Cavanagh  look at subsection (2.) (a) of proposed new section 132a. which provides: (2.)  An affidavit by  a  person stating that - 
he is an officer of the Postmaster-General's Department; 
I ask  Senator Cavanagh  to reconsider. I am sure he did not mean what he said. I hope he did not mean it. He is describing as a pimp any officer of the PostmasterGeneral's Department who will be carrying out his necessary function of ensuring that people comply with the law and not unfairly leave the payment of the necessary fees to others. I do not think such an officer should be called a pimp. I draw that to the honourable senators attention and ask him to reconsider. 
 Senator Murphy,  in effect, challenged me to speak on this matter.  1  am happy to accept the challenge. I had every intention of- speaking anyway. I want to make it clear that [ express  2  differing views and I .find it difficult to reconcile them. Firstly I have a personal view, which is that the generally accepted theme of recognition of student participation in university administration is one that should be pursued. 1 do not think there is anybody in this chamber who does nol accept that it is a good idea that students be represented on the Council and that there should be a sufficient number of representatives for it to be a meaningful representation. So the question becomes: What is a meaningful representation? In other words, what is meaningful in the repercussions throughout the student community of (he association with the administration which a number of students on the Council can have? 
My own view, after participating in discussions among the members of the Council of the Australian National University, reading the reports of the various people who considered the matter and having discussions with students, was that it certainly was not overwhelming the Council to have 2 more students on it and that generally it would be better to have 2 more students on it; in other words, that it was not a huge departure from the situation that already existed and that 2 representatives could achieve the results that were sought by those who put forward the proposal to a considerably greater extent than could one representative. People here have already committed themselves. So I do not think there is any purpose in my going in detail through the reasons why 2 would be better than one. But let me put it on this basis: Students have functions other than being student administrators. They have examinations to pass. They have other interests to pursue. 
 Senator Prowse  makes an interjection about students publishing newspapers. Let me make it quite plain that I do not wish to enter into any argument about the newspaper that was published. Being a student representative on the administrative body of a university is an onerous task. It takes up a great deal of time. I suggest that, if the load can be spread a little further and if one more person can have the experience that being on the Council will give and be able to translate that experience into the administration of student affairs within his own res ponsibility, considerably greater advantages can accrue. It also broadens the prospect of representation of various ideas of the students being available to the Council. For those reasons, at the time the matter was discussed by the Council I believed that it would be to the greatest advantage of all if the number was 2 rather than one. 
However, I find myself in this position: I am not on the Council Ibr any reason of my own merit or my own position. I am there because I was nominated by the members of the Government parties in this chamber to represent them. I find that, had I discussed this matter with the people whom I represent on the Council before any vote was taken on it by the Council, as their representative I would have been bound to vote in a different way from that in which I did. I find myself in this position: I personally have one view, but those whom 1 represent on the Council have another view. I consider that in those circumstances I am bound to accept the . view of the majority. I find that it is a majority of 26 or 27 to one. which is a fairly overwhelming majority. 
In those circumstances I can but say that in this capacity I do not act in what [ believe are the best interests of the University; I must act in what those whom [ represent believe are the best interests of the University. Therefore, even though I have supported one view previously, I must accept that I must try again. I give notice that, if the Council discusses the matter again I will continue to try to persuade my colleagues on this side of the chamber that it would be a good idea to extend the number. If the majority of 26 or 27 to one can be changed to a situation of my being in a majority, perhaps things will ba belter. Therefore, I do not intend to support the amendment. But I make my position quite clear, namely, that at the first opportunity I have to discuss the matter further I shall continue to put the Council's view and the view that I personally hold. 
The Minister for Works  (Senator Wright),  speaking on behalf of the Government, has made quite clear the Government's attitude about the proposed amendments. I would like to add one or two pieces of information. It seems to me that, as the Minister said, it is completely inconsistent for  Senator Murphy  to say that the Council of the Australian National University, upon forming an opinion about something, should have that opinion respected by the Senate, and for him to then introduce into this place an amendment which has never been referred to the Council. He had every opportunity to refer it to the Council because his side of the chamber is represented on that body. I would have thought that it would be fairly important for the Council to have an opportunity to consider this matter and to express an opinion about whether it wouldlike such an amendment in that form or in some other form. I am sure that this chamber would be better able to consider this matter if it had the views of the Council. 
Bearing in mind that there is a Council meeting on 12th March, no doubt if  Senator Murphy  wishes to pursue this matter he could have it considered then. However, I imagine this is a matter requiring much consideration by the Council. Probably it would establish a sub-committee to look into it and it might be several months before the final views of the Council were made known. If this Bill was held over until the Council had had adequate opportunity to consider this amendment the advantages of its other provisions would be delayed for a considerable length of time. 
Although I can accept and sympathise with  Senator Murphy's  comments about the delay experienced in getting this Bill before the Senate and the time it may take to get another one before the Senate, on balance I would have thought that he would agree, if he thought about it, that, first, the matter should go to the Council and, secondly, the rest of the Bill should not be held up until such time as the Council has had adequate opportunity to consider his amendment. I leave aside entirely the other aspects already discussed about reference to the Regulations and Ordinances Committee and consideration by any groups in this chamber or associated with this chamber as to the question of delegated legislation from a parliamentary point of view. I put forward only the view, as a member of the Council, that the Council should have an opportunity to consider this matter. 
By way of preface to my question, which is addressed to the Minister for Works, I point out that last year plans were announced for the building of new studios for the Australian Broadcasting Commission in Launceston to replace the ancient and inadequate premises at present occupied by it. Have tenders yet been called for the building construction upon the land which has already been acquired? If not, when will tenders be called? If they are not to be called, what is the reason for the delay? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Works. What has been the actual situation in relation to the letting of contracts for Commonwealth public works since the introduction of what has become known as the economy drive to reduce the incidence of inflationary tendencies in the economy? Have contracts continued to be entered into where tenders had already been called prior to the introduction of the economy drive? If so, what is the value of such contracts? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport aware of the decision of the new Western Australian Government to abandon plans to introduce the LASH system - that is, lighter aboard ships - in the coastal trade of Western Australia? Is he aware also that overseas shipping companies are going ahead with the introduction of such ships as being more efficient and more economical for general shipping use? Has the Department of Shipping and Transport made a study of these ships and, if so, does it regard them as suitable for introduction to the Australian coastal shipping trade? 
I simply take the opportunity provided by the passage of this Bil) to raise in this chamber a matter that relates generally to the sub ject matter of the Bill, namely, the operalions of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission. The problem with which J am concerned, if it has to be appropriate to any particular clause, is appropriate to clause 5, which relates to section 24, which in turn deals with the retirement of officers. 
The Hobart Radio service has been conducted for many years as an extremely important service from the standpoint of the safety of persons at sea. lt has been conducted with a considerable degree of success. There are now ugly rumours circulating in the Press and among fishermen and other persons concerned with the sea and shipping in the Tasmanian area to the effect that Hobart Radio is to close. Assurances have been given that no decision has yet been taken in relation to that matter and that any alternative would be just as satisfactory. 
I simply take this opportunity to remind the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  and the Minister she represents- that, as far as I know, this matter is still up in the air. Apparently no decision has been made. This is causing considerable concern to many people who are involved in the use of Hobart Radio. I do not take the matter any further than that. I simply take the opportunity to remind honourable senators that that is the situation. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) (5.50) - I have some, information concerning the point thai has been raised by  Senator Rae.  But before I give it I thank him for bringing this matter forward, lt is a matter of very real importance to the people concerned.  Senator Rae  referred mainly to people at sea. I think we appreciate the position. The .information I have been given concerning Hobart Radio is that the Overseas Telecommunications Commission has announced publicly that a decision has not been taken, the location in the centre of Hobart presents problems and the Commission is looking at the matter as a whole. Whilst the Commission is considering the matter, I- believe it is very fitting that  Senator Rae  should raise it. I shall personally express his opinions to the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  so that when the matter is being considered note will bc taken of the honourable senator's views. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment: report adopted. 
I ask the Minister repre  senting the Prime Minister: What is the current situation with regard to the establishment of a Federal pollution control department, departmental section or adviser? If the proposals outlined by the former Prime Minister have been delayed by current financial stringency or for some other reason, will the Minister indicate when this most important project may proceed? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONAs we know, certain activities formerly dealt with by the Prime Minister's Department are being dealt with by the VicePresident of the Executive Council. It is envisaged that, subject to the passage of legislation in the other place and here, there will be a more defined ministerial control of a number of matters, including the one to which the honourable senator referred. I would need to seek some information as to the precise position in relation to the setting up of the special authority to which the honourable senator referred, and I will get that as soon as I can. At the present time these matters are being dealt with ministerially by the VicePresident of the Executive Council in the other place, and by myself in the Senate. 
My question is directed  to the Minister for Civil Aviation as the representative in this chamber of the Minister for National Development and the Minister for Shipping and Transport.I ask the Minister whether he is aware that solid effluent from the production of certain acids at the North West Acid Pty Ltd plant near Burnie in Tasmania is being dumped daily at sea in an area which is outside the Tasmanian State territorial waters and indisputably under Commonwealth control? If this is happening, is this being done with the approval of the Commonwealth Government and has the question whether such material is harmful to marine life or to persons been investigated? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister in Charge of Tourist Activities, follows questions addressed to him earlier this afternoon in relation, to the proposed tour of certain South Africa sportsmen. Has he seen a report in today's 'Age' referring to an editorial in the very outspoken 'Rand Daily Mail' of Johannesburg, which is certainly regarded as being very much opposed to the Nationalist Government of South Africa? Is he aware whether it is correct that that editorial was headed 'An Appeal to  Mr Hawke',  that it said that the appeal was to the Australian Labor Party and trade union movement to reconsider their decision to boycott the Springbok cricket tour, and that it added: We must tell them that by their actions they are harming the antiracialist cause in South Africa'? The article also said that the Labor: Party and the trade unions in Australia were rewarding South African cricketers-: - , : . 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order! The honourable senator will ask his question. 
Yes,  Mr Deputy President,  I will come to the question. It stated that the trade unions are rewarding South African cricketers for their courage in speaking out against racialism by threatening to  wreck  the tour. I. ask the Minister whether that has been drawn to his attention? If so, does he agree .with the sentiments expressed? 
That has. al ways been accepted as being in conformity with the spirit of the standing order. 
If this matter is to be determined - now that it has been raised it should be determined - I suggest that the ruling should be that the question clearly goes against not only the terms but also the spirit of standing order 99.  Senator Rae,  who asked the question, recited a great deal from a newspaper or from another document from which he obtained the information, and he concluded by asking the Minister whether he agreed with it. There could not be a more blatant breach, not only of the terms but also of the spirit of standing order 99. If that is permissible, there is nothing left of standing order 99. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)-  Order! 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order! I do not uphold the point of order but I would direct the attention of honourable senators to the fact that they are tending to go beyond the terms and the spirit of the standing order. I request honourable senators, when asking questions, to conform more to the standing order and to be conscious of their obligations in this regard. It will then be in the hands of the Minister to deal with the question in the manner in which he has been asked to deal with it, bearing in mind that he is expressing an opinion. 
lt appears to me that there has been a considerable amount of what might be described as obfuscation of the original issue. I do not wish to add to that in any way. For that reason I do not answer the matters which have been raised by honourable senators from the other side of the chamber. I simply ask leave to incorporate in Hansard the document which has already been tabled and referred to by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack and other speakers during this adjournment debate so that any person who, at some subsequent time, wishes to determine whether the course of action suggested by  Senator Milliner  or some other course of action should have been taken can work it out for himself by looking at the document and at the statements which have been made. It does not seem to me that the interests of this country or this chamber will be served by having a long debate on this rather minor matter which was perhaps put on one basis or another. The matter raised by  Senator Keeffe  last night was entirely different and 1 should have thought that it was not the subject matter of the present debate.  Mr Deputy President,  I simply ask for leave to incorporate in Hansard the document from which  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack quoted. 
No, the  document which  has already been tabled. It is a photocopy of the text of a talk by President Eisenhower, reported in the 'New York Times' on Wednesday, 5th August 1953. I ask that it be incorporated so that people may see the context from which the statements were taken. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - ls leave granted? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Leave is not granted. 
I hope that my voice will last while 1 read the document, lt is interesting to note that the Opposition wishes to stay here. I start by reading the document from the top. It states: 
The New York Times. Wednesday, August 5, 1953. 
Text of Talk by President Eisenhower- 
The  Deputy PRESIDENT-  Order!  Senator Keeffe  is completely out of order in interjecting. 
Will the Minister representing the Treasurer explain to this chamber whether Bourkes Melbourne Pty Ltd, as a company in the retail business in Melbourne, and. the Australian Council of Trade Unions; as a partner entitled to a share of net profits from the company's business operations, are liable to pay income tax? If the ACTU does not pay tax does this create any aspect of unfair competition as between taxpaying retail companies and a business partially or wholly operated by the ACTU? 
Relying on my memory, I think reference has been made to this in another place. The Treasurer made some reply pointing out the obligations for payment of tax in relation to an ordinary company or organisation. Since I am representing another Minister 1 think I would be wise to obtain the precise reply which the Treasurer gave in another place, or wherever he gave it, in response to the question.  1  shall obtain that reply and make it available to the honourable senator. 
Has the Minister for Health read the report of the Senate  Select  Committee on Water Pollution? If so, will he indicate what action his Department is taking to ensure that all possible steps are taken to control and reduce the pollution which has been found by that Committee to exist in Australia to a serious degree? 
I shall answer this interjection, but thereafter I shall not answer any interjection while reading this document. I have stated already that it states at the top that it is the 'New York Times' of Wednesday, 5th August 1953. I understand the 'New York Times' to be a newspaper, and I thought that honourable senators opposite might also have the same understanding. The document reads: 
SEATTLE, Aug. 4(AP)- Following is the text of  President  Eisenhower's address at the forty-fifth annual Governors' Conference: 
I am here for a number of purposes, but among them is not that of making a long and so-called important speech for the record. The first thought that strikes me as 1 stand up is that Governors' conferences have changed in type a bit. It used to be something like this, all right, but they didn't have so much pulchritude in the rear. 
I didn't know that there was an audience of this kind. Nevertheless, while I had on my mind talking of things which I thought would be of interest to the Governors I hope that the remainder of the audience won't find these things loo boring. 
Now first of all, I am here for a very simple purpose. Because of my indestructible conviction that unless we preserve in this country (he place of the state government, its traditional place, with the power, the authority, the responsibilities and the revenues necessary to discharge those responsibilities, then we are not going to have America as we have known it; we will have some other form of government. 
And my thought was that if I could come here to pay my tribute of respect to the great responsibilities that you men as the executive heads of your states must carry on behalf of our people, then that alone would justify my trip. 
Now, within this concept, of course, is that of the need for the executive heads of each of these states to perform services for their people, the people for whom they serve as chief executives, that is almost without scope and without limit. 
By this I mean that merely because a chief executive signs the bills that are presented to him, presents to his legislature a program that he believes to be conceived in the best interests of his state, that is not enough. In this modern and complex time the problems that affect each of our lives very intimately, very definitely, are very difficult to understand. 
Duty to Supply Information 
A chief executive, in no matter what echelon, be it city, state or Federal, has many sources of information, accurate information, that are often denied to the people in general or, if they are not denied, they come to the people through certain reports that are difficult to relate, one to the other, and therefore see their significance. 1 believe that a chief executive has, among other things, the responsibility of informing his own commonwealth, his own state, about these major problems all the time, be it Korea, IndoChina, taxes, debt limit, no matter what, he has the chore of using the facilities open to him, including that of making talks.  (Quorum formed.) 
He has the chore of trying to. inform the people in that State so that they will in turn support reasonable programs nationally as well as state-wide. 
And indeed, I think at this point in the national and state plan it is again very, very difficult to establish a clear dividing Une. We know this: Unless the United States is prosperous, unless it is strong, unless it is secure; there is no strength, there is no prosperity, there is no security for any state. 
Consequently we instantly conclude there is no true division in the scope of our concern for the people we are attempting to serve. 
The dividing line, you see, is really how we co-ordinate our several functions so that we are not doing exactly the same things, but so that the efforts of each complement the other. 
Cities Request for Study 
That is the reason that one of the first acts of mine when I went to Washington and was supported by a cabinet, and, indeed, by advisers who are now sitting around this table and who occupy Governors' chairs; I asked for a commission that would study this proper division between state responsibility and Federal responsibility, not for one instant meaning that we divide our concern about these major problems of the world and which we have the responsibility of helping to inform our people. 
I do not mean to do that exclusively. We have the responsibility. But I do mean that unless we find a way of dividing the responsibility we are bound to blur too indefinitely the line that divides our several functions and eventually, as I say again, it will not be the American system as we have known it. 
Now, this goes into every field of activity of which I can think. Long years ago, you know, they attempted to establish security establishments. It was a composition of a regular and professional group supported by what we call national concerns and then the state national guard later, and the Federal. All of that was done in an effort to bring together the best capabilities of the state and of the national Government and to provide security for us at all times and with the least possible cost. 
And, indeed, in spite of the tradition that has been directed at us, I believe this: I believe that if every citizen, every state and the national government would do ils proper job under that concept, it would still be a good one for the United States. The trouble of it is jealousies develop. Inefficiencies, and recriminations start, and we have more fun criticizing than we do working constructively. It is odd. 
Of course, this is no new discovery of the human mind, but it is odd, isn't it, that we have so much  ian  calling the other fellow a so-and-so than getting out and doing something to correct either the error that he has committed on that we have. It is probably one of the things, though, that any President is never allowed to forget, even for a minute. 
If we go into the field of agriculture, if we go into the field of Federal power and the conservation of all the resources of this United States, we find this same community of purpose with the necessity of division of responsibility obtains. 
As I understand it, this morning you are going to try in a roundtable conference to sort out in your own minds and possibly sort out in our minds what these divisions should be. Certainly I know of no one in the Federal Government today, no matter what his job, who thinks he knows all of the answers. We cannot fail to benefit, then, from a discussion on those subjects. 
Sharing of Responsibility lit certain instances, I think very obvious truths should prevail. Unless  we  are partners in some of these things, they cannot be done. But if partnership is going to consist only in talking about local rights and central responsibility- responsibility, particularly when it is financial - that is going to be a pattern - there is no hope. 
When we share responsibility, we share responsibility all of the way through, financial as well as for seeing that the thing is effectively operated. 
But if we obey this principle - the closer we leave government and every kind of governmental responsibility to the people, calling in the Federal Government where there is a clear service to be performed, which could not be performed adequately without its cooperation and its partnership, cooperation and partnership in the right direction. 
This principle applies in this great problem - I don't know whether you have yet talked about it - it is one of the controversial subjects - is civil defense. Civil defense is absolutely impossible without complete and enthusiastic cooperation, not merely of governments, not merely of men, but of every man, woman and child in the United States. This is one thing that can't be handled except for the people of the states. 
It is perfectly clear that the first thing that is needed if you are going to have effective civil defense against a possible attack against this country is an ordered or disciplined movement and action on the part of the people in the case of emergency. 
Just as you train your children to go on defensive drills in school if there is a fire, that is the way we must be trained and instructed. If they are unwilling to accept that, there is no hope of a solution. 
You can dig all the cellars in the world and have the people try to get in them. They wouldn't know where they were. 
The statement continues: 
Some of you people have been present in a heavy bombing area. 
The next sub-heading in President Eisenhower's speech reported in the New York Times' of Wednesday. 5th August 1953, is'Need for Ordered Plan'. The statement then continues: 
You have seen the panic that overtakes people. The indispensable ingredient- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Is leave granted? Leave is not granted. 
May I continue reading? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Yes. 
I will begin again from the sub-heading: 
Need for Ordered Plan 
You have seen the panic that overtakes people. The indispensable ingredient of any civil defense is some self-control, and that's all that discipline is. On top of it then is an ordered plan to place people in a position of safety. On top of that you can build a number of artificial and organized defenses, even to include your warning services in the case the Federal Government takes over in the field of active defense. But without this ordered, and orderly, action on the part of the civilian population, all safety defense measures will fall Bat. 
As it is today, suppose we had an emergency in a department store in Seattle. Any American would feel self-conscious if you gave him a job of, let's say, going out and helping dragging out fire hose or standing out on the sidewalk with a pocketful of sand. 
He would feel self-conscious. Now, there is where the job of leadership has to work. How are we going to get Americans to do these things seriously and soberly and knowing them necessary? 
The Federal Government has a very wide, definite, fixed responsibility in this whole program, but we can never do it unless the localities down to the last individual will cooperate. 
I could go on enumerating every kind of problem that comes before the state. Let us take, though, for example, one simple problem in the foreign field. 
I pause for a moment not only to have a drink of water but also to say that perhaps it is unfortunate that  Senator Keeffe  and  Senator Milliner  are not here to listen to this, but I will go on because this is the important part: 
You have seen war in Indo-China described variously as an outgrowth of French colonialism and the French refusal to treat indigenous populations decently. You find it yet described as a war between the Communists and the other elements in Southeast Asia, but you have a confused idea of where is located Laos and Cambodia or any of the other countries that are involved. 
The Asian Problem 
You don't know really why we are so con  cerned with the far-off southeast corner of Asia. Why is it? 
Now, first of all, the last great population remaining in Asia that has not become dominated by the Kremlin, of course, is the subcontinent of India, the Pakistanian Government. 
Here are 150,000,000 people who are still free. Now let us assume that we lose Indo-China. If Indo-China goes, several things happen right away. The peninsula, the last little bit of land hanging on down there, would be scarcely defensible. The tin and tungsten that we so greatly value from that area would cease coming, but all India would be outflanked. 
Burma would be in no position for defense. 
Now, India is front on that side by the Soviet Empire. I believe you read in the paper this morning that Mossadegh moved toward getting rid of his parliament,andofcourse he was in that move supported by the Communist party of Iran. All of that position around there is very ominous to the United States, because finally if we lost all that, how would the free world hold the rich empire of Indonesia? 
So you see, somewhere along the line, this must be blocked and it must be blocked now, and that's what we are trying to do. 
So when the United States votes $400,000,000 to help that war, we are not voting a giveaway program. We are voting for the cheapest way that we can prevent the occurrence of something that would be of a most terrible significance to the United States of America, our security, our power and ability to get certain things we need from the riches of the Indonesian territory and from Southeast Asia. 
Now, that is the kind of thing that it isn't good enough for someone to decide in Washington. All of us understand, because out of that kind of thing grows the need for taxes. The security of the United States is not just the business of the Secretary of Defense and the Congress and the  President  and the Secretaries of the services, it's the business of every man, woman and child and,  if it is their business, then it is the business of all of us. We need help. 
I don't care what the problem is. I think  I  can always talk, my friends, just to get back to this one thought: unless the Governors of the state,  I  don't give a hoot whether a Democrat or Republican is in this kind of a job, we are Americans, in the Federal Government, unless we can cooperate on the basis of understanding of the facts and progress steadily, surely and confidently in carrying out a program that we believe will establish the security of the United States, not only from a bomb, from some kind of destructive action of the enemy, but make sure that its surpluses are carried abroad and in return for those surpluses we get back goods that will allow those people to buy our surpluses; unless we have that kind of economic strength we are going to have to live a very different kind of life than we do. 
This can all be done only through cooperation. This is no partisan proposition. We don't have a monopoly on truth or on the facts that affect this country. We must work together. 
So far as it goes, that is the document which was tabled. It may be of some interest to those who were keen to debate this subject but not keen to hear the subject matter read to have the opportunity of reading the statement tomorrow, if they so desire, so that they can see whether the context in which they used the statement was a good representation of the context in which it was used originally. I can but emphasise that what was not referred to tonight was the fact that General Eisenhower was talking about trade generally and the beneficial effects it had on the people in both countries who were involved in that trade. I do not debate the subject any further. It is interesting to know that the Opposition is so concerned that a speech of General Eisenhower's, which may or may not have been taken out of context, should not be available to anybody who reads Hansard that it refused me the leave to incorporate the speech, which caused the Senate to be detained for 15 or 20 minutes while I read the speech. I have now done so and I hope that people will now be able to see this matter in its proper context. 
Thursday,  22  April 1971 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. On 16th March last I asked the Minister whether he could inform me and the Senate as to the consideration being given to the use of ships known as LASH ships in Australian coastal services and he said that he would obtain information from the Minister. Is he now in a position to supply that information? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. By way of brief preface I refer to the answer which he gave me earlier today about the potential for the use of LASH type ships in the Australian coastal trade. Will the Minister ascertain whether the experts in the Department of Shipping and Transport favour the use of this type of ship in any section of the Australian coastal trade and, if so, what are those sections and what are the advantages to those trades? 
-A thought going back some  600  years in British law. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the MinisterinCharge of Aboriginal Affairs. I draw the Minister's attention to the fact that on 2nd November 1970, I asked the following question of the Minister who then represented the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs: 
To safeguard the industries of Australian Aboriginals from increasing competition from cheap overseas-produced imitation bark paintings, boomerangs and other traditional Aboriginal products and to assist the Aboriginals in retaining and building their markets, both domestic and overseas, for such products, which represent their culture, will the Minister request the MinisterinCharge of Aboriginal Affairs to investigate the possibility of taking action to legislate to license the manufacture and sale of any such products and to secure the widest possible patent and design rights for Australian Aboriginals? 
I have since drawn the matter to the Minister's attention by way of correspondence. I now ask: Has the matter been considered by the Minister and has any action been taken or will any be taken in relation to it? 
 As one of those who has supported the general principle which has been spoken about on the occasions when votes have been taken in this chamber, I indicate that I shall adopt the attitude which was described by 

 Senator Byrne as the attitude of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. Perhaps I would adopt a stronger attitude than the DLP because it has come from the leader of my own Party, whose assurances I naturally accept and follow and wish to see followed by everyone. I simply indicate that I for one would not support  Senator Murphy's  amendment 
I join with the other speakers who have congratulated  Senator James  McClelland on his maiden speech, which was listened to with a great deal of respect. I simply add my congradulations to those which have been forthcoming already from other parts of the chamber. I have listened with interest to the other speeches which have been made on this Bill. It seems to me that the main theme of the speeches made by members of the Opposition has been the argument that there is a need for some constitutional guarantee of right of assembly and that in some way that right of assembly is being restricted or diminished by the Bill. It appears that that proposition is assumed and that the case is argued from that beginning. I wish to look at the validity of that proposition, which seems to be the basic premise from which the speeches of honourable senators opposite have proceeded. If the basic premise is not valid, presumably the remainder of the speech is not valid. I ask, by way of rhetorical question: Why should there be any constitutional guarantee on the right of assembly? There is no restriction, other than the restriction imposed by laws made by the Parliament or the applicable common law transposed from the United Kingdom to Australia. Even then, the circumstances in which that restriction applies depend very largely upon statute or are governed directly by statute. 
Therefore, we start from a position of absolute freedom. We start from a position in which that absolute freedom has, in the circumstances of the organisation of society, to be restricted to an extent necessary to keep the balance in the community between freedom and order. I thought it was of some interest that not only does the Australian Labor Party appear to accept that some restriction is necessary - I think all speakers have subscribed to that point of view - but also that the Labor Party in Great Britain, which has just been applauded by  Senator Mulvihill,  in its 1970 manifesto stated: 
It is a first duty of government to protect the citizen against violence, intimidations and crime. 
I would have been surprised if any hon.ourable senator had argued with that proposition. If that is a valid proposition, we pass to a consideration of what are the laws that it is necessary for a government to enact to protect the citizens against violence, intimidation and crime. Let us not take too much time considering whether there should be some constitutional guarantee. We have the practical and factual situation, from which we proceed, that there is absolute freedom except where it is restricted. Perhaps we should look a little further at one or two of the other places in which this concept has been discussed. I refer to Article 29, paragraph (2) of the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights. I refer also to a statement made by Chief Justice Earl Warren of the United States Supreme Court. In a book entitled 'Essays on Human Rights', at page 183, he stated: 
World Law Day asks all mankind to praise and consider the value of human rights under the protection of law - justice - to human kind. Human Rights, which I define as justice for all individuals under just laws, are today the most sought for ideal for all peoples everywhere. To achieve this great ideal requires a knowledge among the peoples of the world that only under the rule of law can they have that peaceful order which will enable them to create great social and economic achievements within nations and settlement of disputes among nations, without the use of force. 
I would hope that no honourable senator would disagree with that principle. Some who have spoken in the debate may have overlooked it temporarily. We have had a great deal of talk about a situation in which apparently that principle forms no part of the reasoning. But if we proceed from that basis, again I ask: Why do we need a Bill of rights; why do we need some constitutional guarantee; what are the existing problems which have to be overcome? 
When one considers the problems which would have to be overcome, one is that not only is it unnecessary but that it is impracticable, or likely to be extremely  difficult.  I  remind  honourable senators that it would be necessary to amend the Constitution to take power away from the States in order to enable this Parliament to enact legislation such as that envisaged by a number of speakers on the Opposition side of the chamber. Another factor relating to this point is the consideration mentioned by the Attorney-General  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  when speaking in the debate on this Bill in the other House, as reported at page 1805 of Hansard. He said that the mere statement of constitutional guarantees is not necessarily successful. He referred to the fact that, the 1936 Constitution of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, section 125 guarantees freedom of speech and freedom of assembly. He then went on to say that although these things supposedly were guaranteed, in fact in particular circumstances that guarantee was of no avail at all and that persons were sentenced to various terms of imprisonment for expressing themselves and for assembling. The net result is that one returns to the principle that  it is  not a matter of guaranteeing the freedom by words; it is a matter of guaranteeing the freedom by system and by observance of that system. 
The important aspects of the system we observe are, firstly, that we should have a free and independent judiciary. That we have, and that I believe we are proud of. Secondly, we must have a free and independent bar, free from interference, free to do its duty, free to make such representations as the interests of the individual require. Again, in this country we have that. If we have those freedoms in relation to the system, if we have the freedom to exercise the right to speak in Parliament, if we have the right of Parliament to exercise supervision over the Executive, then again we have the practical day to day necessities for the preservation of the rights and liberties of individual subjects. These things are far more important, I suggest, than simply writing words into a constitution which are then, as in Russia, not observed when it suits those in control not to observe them. 
I suggest that there has been a completely wrong concentration upon the question of an artificial guarantee rather than looking to the particular Bill and its purposes. This Bill is related to the question of the right of assembly and the question of freedom of speech. In order to consider those two aspects perhaps we should look to what was said by Lord Denning, one of the great law reformers in the United Kingdom, a judge very well known for his liberal and reforming zeal, in relation to this particular matter. He said:  _ The right to dissent does not carry with it a licence to impose their views on the majority, lt does not carry with it the privilege of taking the law into their own hands. It does not entitle them to obstruct the processes of government, of universities, or other institutions. It does not enable them to trample on the rights of others or to resort to violence. It does not give them the freedom to do anything they like to make their protest effective. 
Yet, whilst this lesson must be taught to dissentients, those in authority have a lesson to learn too. They must be ready to listen to grievances and to remedy injustices. They must make a sincere effort to understand the views of the dissentients. If they cannot agree with them, they must explain the reason why. If they do agree with them, they must make reforms to put it right. Such is the duty of governing bodies of universities and of the professors and all in authority. It is the duty of judges and lawyers too. 
It is interesting to note, perhaps, that that statement is one with which, I think, not many people in this chamber would be inclined to disagree, lt puts quite clearly an up to date judicial view of the right to dissent and the obligation of those in authority in relation to dissentients. I think that those are 2 important aspects and again I think they have been overlooked, perhaps, by a lot of people in government. I do not necessarily mean this Government at any particular time, but people in government do tend to overlook the particular aspect of their obligations about which Lord Denning was speaking. 
One of the obligations, a matter to which I shall return soon, is an obligation to reform laws when they become outdated, outmoded and are no longer suitable or sufficiently suitable for the purposes for which they are required. 
The next question I want to ask in con.sideration of this matter is this: Does the Bill restrict the right of assembly, the right of dessent in any novel way? Is there something which is being introduced in this Bill which is novel and which therefore requires special consideration? Again I suggest that the answer, clearly, is no. There is historical precedent galore, I think, for every single solitary provision in the Bill. Certainly the whole concept of the Bill has historical foundation going back hundreds of years. It goes right back through the whole period of time since societies first began to organise and regulate themselves. No honourable senator from the Opposition side of the chamber has identified where and in what way the Bill introduces any novel provision. I would be most interested to hear any speakers following me in the debate identify any such thing. This has just not been done. If it does not introduce anything novel and . it does accord with that which has been acceptable in the community for a very long time, then again I wonder what all the noise is about. 
One wonders whether the Opposition is opposing the Bill because it provides a good opportunity to create a political issue and, during the debate on it, to talk about anything except the Bill itself. The impression which could well be obtained by someone reading or listening to the speeches made would be that that was all that was happening. Very little attention has been paid to the provisions of the Bill and as to what, in particular, is wrong with them. I suggest that we are concerned primarily with a Bill which is clarifying and bringing up to date legislation relating to a particular sector of the ordering of the society in which we live. It is simply to be regarded simply as an aspect of law reform. Referring to the law reform concept, I turn to the remarks of the Chief Justice of Australia,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, made in an address to law graduates at the graduation ceremony at Melbourne's Monash University in May 1969. As reported in a newspaper article,  Sir Garfield  Barwick said: 
. that if inappropriate laws, by-laws and regulations were not changed, agitators and law breakers would be given a claim they should not have - to break the law. 
Parliament, judges and lawyers should be constantly on the watch to change the law where necessary. Unless the law moved with the times, society was in for  trouble 
Law reform should not be occasional or piecemeal but the essential occupation of those who administered or made the law. 
Again I would be surprised if anybody in this chamber disagreed with those remarks. But, I ask: In what way is this Bill not an application of this principle? And I do not hear any answer forthcoming from the Opposition. Apart from the speech by  Senator James  McClelland, no particular consideration has been given to the question whether this Bill represents an aspect of law reform or whether it is just some political gimmick. As to whether it is law reform or not, perhaps we should consider the history of this type of legislation, much of which is still existing but will be removed from existence, so far as Commonwealth territories and property are concerned, by the passage of this Bill. A confused situation will remain in many of the States, but it is interesting to note that New South Wales recently clarified the situation. That happened in 1969. Tasmania, perhaps being ahead of other States, as so often happens, removed the confusion as long ago as 1924. I am sure that  Senator O'Byrne  would agree with me that Tasmania is always likely to be the State to move first on any matter and to give a lead. In every other State, in the Territories of the Commonwealth and in the United Kingdom, there are at least 3 Acts dating from 1394, 1411 and 1414 plus a variety of other legislation that has come down through the centuries, all still applying and all still able to be used. 
It is said that none of these has ever been used. 1 simply cite an example from my own experience of some 3 or 4 years ago when one of the defences provided by one of these Acts was held to apply in relation to certain proceedings through its translation through the common law. It provides an example of how one can have these sorts of provisions and these sorts of arguments and confusion taking place in the court unless law reform is carried out and Acts are brought up to date. As I understand it, that is the principal purpose for which this Bill has been introduced. 
The next point was that the Bill introduces nothing novel and that it does not increase the severity of penalties compared with penalties which exist in the legislation 
In- the various States, in the Commonwealth, at common law or under the old English legislation. Perhaps a comparison is that in relation to a number of offences under the Acts a penalty could be as high as imprisonment for 21 years for, say, unlawful assembly. The penalty in Tasmania is still 21 years for this offence, but the penalty under this Bill is nothing like that. We heard from Senators Kennelly and James McClelland that there were defects in the Bill and they tried to point to some areas where defects were evident. They picked on the use of the word 'reasonable' and said things such as: This is so vague as to be meaningless', this is difficult to determine', 'it is a. word which should not be used' and 'there should be greater clarity'. One of the examples where that has been used in this Bill is in clause 8 (4.) where it says: 
For the purpose of - 
Dispersing an assembly . . . It is lawful for a person to use such force as he believes, on reasonable grounds, to be necessary for that purpose and is reasonably proportioned to the danger which he believes, on reasonable grounds, is to be apprehended from the continuance of the assembly. 
That is a principle which again is very well known in the law. It has been judicially interpreted in many contexts down through the centuries. For instance, if one were to look at 'Coke upon Littleton', a book first written some 400 years ago, one finds reasonableness defined in this way: belongeth to the knowledge of the law, and therefore .to be decided by the justices. 
It is not something which is being introduced as a matter of novelty in the provisions of the Bill with which we are concerned. If one looks at the definition given in 'Stroud's Judicial Dictionary' at page 2462 one sees the sort of definition which is given to it by the law. It states: the word 'reasonable' has in law the prima facie meaning of reasonable in regard to those circumstances of which the actor called on to act reasonably knows or ought to know. 
Then there are a number of pages of various examples of the definition and cases of the use of the word 'reasonable' in its varying contexts. Those contexts include such a wide variety of legislation as the Sale of Goods Act, the Supreme Court Civil Procedure Act, matrimonial legislation, property and acquisition Acts, railways Acts and also the criminal law in the common law system in every part of the English speaking world. If the best argument that can be put forward by Senators James McClelland and Kennelly in criticism of this Bill is that it uses the word reasonable', it shows that there has been a complete absence of consideration and research in relation to the matter, that is not being dealt with on the basis of a proper consideration of the merit of the Bill but only as a political expedient. If we consider the question of unlawful assembly we find that defined in many places and in common law. The definition which I shall use is that appearing in the third edition, volume 10, page 585 of Halsbury's 'Laws of England' which states: 
An unlawful assembly is an assembly of 3 or more persons with intent either to commit a crime by open force or to carry out any common purpose, lawful or unlawful in such a manner as to give firm and courageous persons in the neighbourhood of the assembly reasonable grounds to apprehend a breach of the peace in consequence of it. 
Cases from the early 19th century are then cited as authority for the various parts of the definition of 'unlawful assembly'. I thought it might be interesting for  Senator Wheeldon  to contemplate that definition because honourable senators will recall that yesterday, in trying to attack the Government for introducing this piece of proposed legislation, he said, as reported at page 1073 of Hansard: 
For example, in clause 4 of the Bill we find that 'assembly' is defined as meaning an assembly of not less than 3 persons. So 3 persons constitute an assembly, precisely as in the South African Suppression of Communism Act. Within the terms of that Act a banned person may not attend any meeting if there are 3 persons present. The synchronisation of thought between the Parliament in Canberra and the Parliament in Cape Town is remarkable. 
I would simply like to point out that perhaps both of them are synchronised by the fact that over the centuries, going back over hundreds of years, the common law has used as its definition of 'unlawful assembly' 3 or more persons and the various statutes in England relating to this type of legislation have used 3 or more persons. So far as I can find, the only country with a somewhat similar legal system which has not used 3 or more persons is India where I think it is 5 or more persons. Perhaps that is simply because the population is so much greater there that naturally there is an increase in the number in any sort of reference like that. I answer this criticism of the Bill because it is a good example ot the nature of the criticism which has been forthcoming from the opposite side of the chamber and the complete lack of proper basis for that criticism. 
As I have just mentioned 'reasonable' is used in the common law definition of 'unlawful assembly'. It has been used in a quite wide variety of statutes over the centuries, it is well known to the law and well capable of being defined by the law. There was criticism of the use of the word 'vicinity' and we were asked: What does 'vicinity' mean? I do not intend to go into the same detail in replying to that but simply refer to the fact that that is also a word which has an established meaning and which is capable of being interpreted by a court. The meaning given in the common law definition I quoted from Halbury was in the neighbourhood of the assembly'. But if 'in the vicinity of the assembly' is questionable, so too is the old common law definition. 
So we have, 1 suggest, but shallow criticisms of this Bill. They are shallow in their real context in relation to the Bill, however significant they may be in relation to the political argument as to whether or not we should be involved in Vietnam, as to whether or not we should have a National Service Act and as to whether or not we should allow people to roam at will over Commonwealth parliamentarians' offices. These seem to be the questions that have been debated, rather than questions related to the Bill itself. As I have said, the Bill is an aspect of law reform unrelated to the matters that have been debated here. The criticisms that have been forthcoming in relation to the Bill will, in general, not stand inspection. There are some criticisms of the detail of the Bill which I will be making when we reach the Committee stage. But that is a different matter. As to the reason behind the Bill and its general nature, it is simply an updating of a very long established aspect of the normal regulation of the society in which we reside. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National 
Service: What are the main areas of dispute in the current marine stewards strike and what rates of pay and hours and weeks of work do stewards at present enjoy? What steps can be and are being taken by the Commonwealth Government to help determine the strike? Can the Minister give an assurance that every possible step will be taken to get the ships operating again, particularly those to Tasmania which is suffering serious and possibly permanent damage as a result of this strike? 
My question also is directed to the Minister for Health. Will the Minister consider arranging for the preparation of the equivalent of a White Paper on the question of the smoking of tobacco and whether any form of legislative action is desirable of not? 
1 rise to speak in relation to a matter which was noted by Estimates Committee C, of which I was a member. It deals with an item in the Additional Estimates for the development of Avalon Airport to Boeing 747 or Concorde standard. This matter was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works on 3rd September 1970 and a report was presented by that Committee on 19th October 1970. The expenditure sought and recommended by the Committee was $6,400,000. As I said, that amount was contained therefore in the Additional Estimates, having not been contained in the Budget presented in August 1970. This raises an important question of departmental or perhaps interdepartmental planning. The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works in its 33rd General Report made some points which I think it is relevant to quote. In paragraph 9 it said: 
It is the Committee's belief that, generally, with proper and efficient planning there is ample scopewithin the present procedures for the Committee's scrutiny of major works to be carried out, at the appropriate time, without delay and without detriment to the timing of design or completion of the proposals. On the other hand, when a project is hastily referred to the Committee as the last step before tenders are called, seeking a rubber stamp endorsement of the proposal, there must always be concern that hurried planning and tight building construction timetables will lead to illconceived development and cost penalties flowing from restricted construction periods. 
When that Committee considered the particular work proposal it found that there were some disturbing features. I wish to quote from paragraphs 51 and 52 of the 20th report, of 1970, which was presented by the Committee. Paragraph 51 states: 
We feel it is necessary to point out thai the Committee received the reference at a point in time which made it difficult, if not impossible, not to endorse the work. Not to do so would mean that the training of Qantas aircrew on Boeing 747 aircraft could only be done under considerable penalties after their delivery in August 1971. The Committee feels that, because of the programme, it was left with no alternative but to recommend the construction of the proposed work at Avalon. 
Paragraph 52 states: 
It is quite probable that if the programme had not been so demanding the Committee would have recommended the development of a training airfield in another location. As the Department of Civil Aviation has known of the Qantas Boeing 747 programme since 1968, we feel it is necessary to protest yet again at the apparent inability of the Department to do its forward planning effectively and at its apparent indifference to the requirements and possible implications of a Committee investigation. 
I understand that Avalon airport, which is situated some 9 miles from Geelong, was in its early life - from 1953 - a Services test flying airport which was used also for research and other purposes, but that from 1958 the important part with which we are concerned came about. It was then that Qantas Airways Ltd acquired Boeing 707 aircraft and found the need for training facilities for its pilots. The airport has, since that time, been used for civil jet training purposes - at least with regard to overseas aircraft - and, as 1 understand it, some domestic aircraft. This role is to be increased to include most domestic jet flying as well as the overseas jets at some time in the near future. Extensions to the runways at Avalon are required to bring the airport up to a standard for use by Boeing 747 and Concorde aircraft. I again wish to quote from the report of the Public Works Committee. Paragraph 47 states: 
Quite clearly, under the present civil aviation policy, the Commonwealth has a responsibility- to provide landing facilities for commercial pilot training and, because of the time factor, it is obvious that the upgrading of the facilities at Avalon is the only practicable way of satisfactorily providing for Boeing 747 training. We therefore believe that the work in this reference should be carried out without further unnecessary delay. 
It becomes relevant then to consider whether there has been adequate forward planning in relation to this matter and. further, whether any extra cost will be involved in the work having to be undertaken as a matter of urgency. The other question which is relevant is: Why was it necessary to include this item in the additional estimates? Planning and estimating for and by Government departments should presumably enable proper annual budgeting. If large projects - a $6.4m project is a relatively large one - are to be occurring in many departments obviously there will be considerable problems if they are not provided for in annual budgeting. As to these questions it is relevant to consider that Government approval for Qantas to buy the Boeing 747 aircraft was given in, 1 believe, November 1967 and finance was arranged in approximately May 1968, so that certainly since May 1968 it has been known that the Boeing 747 was to be introduced by Qantas. 
Qantas, in its report for the year ended 31st March 1970, referred to the expansion of the Sydney jet base to provide, among other things, the facilities necessary for, as Qantas described it, the new giant Boeing 747B. The report also stated that these developments would be completed in 1971 and were at the time of the report - 31st March 1970 - either under way or in the advanced planning stage. It has therefore been known since 1968 that Qantas is to take delivery of its first 747 in mid- 1971 - the actual date, as I understand it, being August. Obviously it could not be said that the need for these works at Avalon was not foreseeable from the time of the approval of the purchase of the aircraft, nor could it be said that the time when the need for the work to be completed was not foreseeable from the time when the delivery dates were fixed, which was. as I understand it, in about May 1968. 
The Department of Civil Aviation has, according to paragraph 47 of the report of the Public Works Committee, which I have already quoted, the responsibility of providing the facilities, lt has therefore had the whole of the financial year 1968-69 and the whole of the financial year 1969- 70 to plan for these works. On the face of it there could have been provision for this work in the 1970-71 Budget. As to this, the Committee's report includes a conclusion in paragraph 53. It is conclusion No. 9 and it is a somewhat disturbing conclusion. It reads: lt is necessary to protest yet again at the apparent inability of the Department of Civil Aviation to do its forward planning effectively. 
Whether any additional costs are involved due to the late planning is another question, but I understand from information which was obtained from the Department and supplied to me by the Minister - for which I am grateful, this matter having been raised during the Estimates Committee's hearing - that no extra costs will be involved as a result of any questions of late planning. For completeness I mention that that is my understanding; that in this case, anyway, no extra costs will be involved. 
But I raise this matter for the attention of the Minister and for the information and consideration of honourable senators. I believe that it is the function of Estimates Committees to draw attention to matters such as this, and the Comittee of which I am a member stated in paragraph 3 of its report which was presented to this chamber yesterday: 
Evidence given to the Committee indicated that in some cases at least, original estimates are formulated on a basis which does not include expenditure for some foreseeable departmental activities. Such estimating could lead to a situation where the original estimates would not represent a true indication of a government's anticipated commitments for the financial year. 
If the reason for the apparently inadequate forward planning is simply a matter of the large volume of planning work necessary to cater for this fast growing industry, then I ask the Minister: What consideration is being given to overcoming the difficulty to prevent this type of case becoming a regular feature of his Department's work?  His  Department is responsible for a very fast growing industry. I can well understand that there may be very good reasons why; in this particular case, it was not possible to apply the forward planning which one would have expected, bearing in mind the time schedule which I have mentioned. 1 conclude by reminding honourable senators that the time schedule was that by about May 1968 it was known that 747s would be required and when they would commence to be delivered. No reference at all was made to this project in the Budget for 1970-71, which was presented in 
August 1970, and it was not until 3rd September 1970 that the proposal for the work was submitted to the Public Works Committee with the statement: 'Achievement of the planned schedule is highly dependent on a start being made by midNovember 1970'. So although it had not reached the planning stage in August 1970 to enable it to be put into the Budget, by 3rd September it had reached the stage where it was imperative that the Public Works Committee complete its investigation of the project in time for a start to be made on the project by mid-November 1970. I simply put the matter and would be grateful if the Minister would comment on it. I raise it also for the general information of honourable senators. 
Perhaps while the Minister is answering that matter he could advert also to another aspect which seems to be of considerable relevance to what  Senator James  McClelland has just been saying, that is, the aspect that the Bill is intended to change both the statute law and the common law in relation to the sort of situation which the honourable senator has been mentioning. If he found himself in that situation and if a police officer requested or required him to assist in preventing there from being any disturbance of the peace, a riot, rout or unlawful assembly taking place, the honourable senator would have to assist the police officer and, if he did not do so, he would be guilty of an offence of failing to give assistance when required to do so. This would apply also to any other person who was present. 
This is one aspect which perhaps is relevant to the consideration raised by  Senator James  McClelland and it is something which it is intended to clear up by this Bill. It is a carry over from the early days when, as I understand it, a law keeping officer, be he sheriff, policeman or whatever he was, was unlikely to be able to call by radio or get by speedy motor vehicle or some other means any assistance which was necessary. So he had the power to call to his aid, in effect to ride posse with him, any citizens to whom he could give the direction that they should do so. This is something which still exists today and will continue to exist, unless this Bill goes through with the amendments which are proposed. 
I wish to add one further comment to what has been said by  Senator James  McClelland and to which the Minister for Health  (Senator Greenwood)  has replied.  Senator James  McClelland made great play of the fact that apparently I and possibly the Minister as well have no knowledge or experience of what happens in the real world of demonstrations or unlawful assemblies. I am quite prepared, as I said by interjection, to accept that he may have a far greater knowledge of what happens in unlawful assemblies than I have. 
 Senator Cavanagh,  I am about to demonstrate that his knowledge of the point that 1 was making is in inverse proportion to the knowledge that he displays of unlawful assemblies. The point is - I would have thought that he would have been well aware of it - that, as the law now stands, any person may be directed to participate in quelling the riot or in assisting the police to put down the riot. That would mean that, if  Senator Cavanagh  went along to see that a demonstration which he had planned and organised went off according to plan and organisation, he could be called upon by the police to participate in putting down that unlawful assembly. I would have thought that he would not approach that situation with complete equanimity. In fact 1 would have thought that he would be rather alarmed to think that he could be called upon to do so. If he failed to do so he would be guilty of an offence with which he would be charged. 

 Senator James McClelland referred to the polite conversation with the police officer who asks: 'Are you engaged in this unlawful assembly?' or some such question and the reply is: 'No, I am not, I am on my way home'. The brutal fact is that it is possible for the police officer simply to give a direction to any person present. Under the law as it stands - which is to be repealed by this Bill - if that person does not assist the policeman that person is committing an offence because he does not assist in putting down that riot or in overcoming that unlawful assembly. 
I simply want to take the opportunity to ask the Minister for Health  (Senator Greenwood),  apropos of the first matter raised by  Senator Murphy,  whether perhaps Halsbury's Laws of England' are incorrect and whether he thinks that they do not accurately represent the law, because otherwise  Senator Murphy  has put forward a rather preposterous proposition.  Senator Murphy  said that the use of the words in clause 6(1.): '. . . that gives rise to a reasonable apprehension that the assembly will be carried on in a manner involving unlawful physical violence to persons. . . .', is an outrage in law. I had a look at the definition of 'assault' which is contained in the third edition, volume 10 of Halsbury's 'Laws of England', page 741. The definition reads: 
If no actual violence is used, there must, to constitute an assault, be some threatening act sufficient to raise in the mind of the person threatened a fear of immediate violence.  1 wonder where the difference is between the definition of 'assault' as given there and the same type of principle which is embodied in clause 6(1.) of the Bill, which does not in any way at all introduce some novel principle of law enforcement and is a common matter dating back many centuries and is well known in the law of the United Kingdom and of every State of Australia. 
We heard from  Senator McManus  a very good reason why we should be giving consideration to these provisions, why we should not be dealing lightly with them, why we should not be dealing frivolously with them and why we should not be trying to use means of debate which would not be regarded as fair or intelligent play in a first form debating team.  Senator Murphy  has said that this is an unheard of introduction. The unheard of introduction is the introduction into the law of the Commonwealth of something which the Minister for Health  (Senator Greenwood)  has said is something new so far as Commonwealth law is concerned. I refer to the provision that persons who conduct themselves in a way that gives a reasonable apprehension that the assembly will be carried on in a manner involving unlawful physical violence to persons or unlawful damage to property are guilty of an offence.  Senator Murphy  said that this is something novel to the law, that this is something which is being introduced for the first time by this Government, that this is something which should be resisted as an undue intrusion upon the liberty of the subject and something which has such novelty value that it should be regarded as a most reprehensible intrusion into civil liberty. 
Let us look at how well based that assertion is. I refer to that well quoted valume, to which so much reference has been made this evening - volume 10 of Halsbury, page S8S. That gives the common law definition of unlawful assembly. That definition goes back hundreds of years. It states: 
An unlawful assembly is an assembly of 3 or more persons with intent 'either to commit a crime by open force or to carry out any common purpose, lawful or unlawful, in such a manner- 
I ask honourable senators opposite to listen to this for a moment -  as to give firm and courageous persons in the neighbourhood of the assembly reasonable grounds to apprehend a breach of the peace in consequence 'of it. 
That is the common law definition.  Senator Murphy  may like to look at such a decision as Thomas v. Sawkins, which is reported in 1935 (2) Kings Bench at page 249.  Senator Wheeldon  may also like to have a look al it. 
This matter has been discussed in detail quite recently as to the common law meaning, but let us pass on without going into detail, unless somebody wishes me to do so. and have a look at the Australian situation because it might he different from the common law situation. We find that in the States of Tasmania, Western Australia and Queensland we have a criminal code in which the provision as to unlawful assembly has been taken in general terms direct from the common law. For instance, the Queensland legislation provides that when 3 or more persons, with intent to carry out some common purpose, assemble in such a manner or, being assembled, conduct themselves in such a manner as to cause persons in the neighbourhood to fear on reasonable grounds that the persons so assembled will tumultuously disturb the peace or will by such assembly needlessly and without any reasonable occasion provoke other persons tumultuously to disturb the peace it is an unlawful assembly. I pause simply to say that once again we have the use of the words 'on reasonable grounds to apprehend'. 
Let us look now at the Tasmanian legislation. There an unlawful assembly is defined as an assembly of 3 or more persons with intent to effect a common purpose and so on, with intent to assist each other for a common purpose and so on, who manifest such intention as aforesaid in such a manner as to give firm and courageous persons in the neighbourhood of such assembly reasonable grounds to apprehend a breach of the peace. Again we have the same use of the common law phraseology of 'reasonable grounds to apprehend a breach of the peace' and reasonable grounds to apprehend a tumultuous disturbance' or whatever it may be. 
It is a pity that  Senator Wheeldon  did not pay more attention to his lecturer. Let us have a look at other provisions of more recent times because I think that this is of some considerable significance to the consideration being given to this matter by the Senate. Let us have a look at what a completely independent - a nonpolitical body considering a draft criminal code produced in 1969 in relation to this provision. The Law Council of Australia produced in February 1969 after a considerable amount of work, as  Senator Greenwood  and others would be well able to testify, a draft criminal code for the Territories of the Commonwealth. Clause 177 of that draft criminal code, which was produced as recently as 1969, again provided that where a group of 3 or more persons assembled for any purpose forbidden by law or with intent to carry out any common purpose, lawful or unlawful, in such a manner as to endanger the public peace or to cause persons in the neighbourhood to fear on reasonable grounds that the persons so assembled would tumultuously disturb the peace or needlessly and without any reasonable occasion provoke others to do so, the persons so assembled would be guilty of the indictable offence of unlawful assembly. So, as recently as 1969, a completely independent, non-political body - the Law Council of Australia - recommended for use in the Territories of the Commonwealth a provision similar to the provision in the Bill that we are now debating. 
Again I remind honourable senators that  Senator Murphy  would have them believe that this provision is a novel introduction by this Government of something unheard of and unknown in the law. It has been known in the law for hundreds of years, it has been applied in very State of the Commonwealth and it was recommended by a non-political body as recently as 1969 for introduction into the Territories of the Commonwealth. All I can say is that anyone who now has the slightest belief in anything that  Senator Murphy  puts forward as a basis, unless it is substantiated by something other than his assertion, is indeed gullible. 
Apparently trying to explain, in words of as close as possible to one syllable, that the words proposed to be included in clause 6(1.) of this Bill, namely, 'reasonable apprehension', have no novelty factor has just simply not got the message through to honourable senators opposite. I spoke earlier of the fact that those words are incorporated in the codes of 3 of the States of the Commonwealth; they are incorporated in the common law of the United Kingdom; they are incorporated through the common law into the law of the other 3 States of the Commonwealth; and they are included in the draft criminal code prepared by the Law Council of Australia, which, if  Senator Wheeldon  wishes to look it up, is Parliamentary Paper No. 44 of 1969. 1 thought that, because perhaps honourable senators opposite were not impressed by the fact that every State of the Commonwealth of Australia has similar words in its own legislation in this respect, it might be as well to see what some other countries have done. We have dealt with every State of the Commonwealth of Australia and we have dealt with the United Kingdom; so let us have a look at Canada. We find that its Criminal Code, in section 64, in relation to unlawful assemblies, states: 
An unlawful assembly is an assembly of 3 or more persons who, with intent to carry out any common purpose, assemble in such a manner or so conduct themselves when they are assembled as to cause persons in the neighbourhood of the assembly to fear on reasonable grounds that they - 
will disturb the peace tumultuously; or 
will by that assembly needlessly and without reasonable cause provoke other persons to disturb the peace tumultuously. 
I simply say that so far as Canada is concerned - another quite separate country - it has been found necessary to include in the Criminal Code words which are of the same meaning as the words proposed in clause 6(1.) of this Bill. Because it seems that sufficient precedent is not to be found in the laws of the States of Australia, the draft territorial code, or the laws of Canada and the United Kingdom, I thought I would look at the laws of New Zealand also. I find that section 101 of the New Zealand Crimes Act 1908 provides: 
An unlawful assembly is an assembly of 3 or more persons who, with intent to carry out in common purpose assembled, or conduct themselves when assembled, in such a manner, as to cause persons in the neighbourhood of such assembly to fear on reasonable grounds that the persons so assembled will disturb the peace tumultuously or will, by such assembly, needlessly and without any reasonable occasion, provoke other persons to disturb the peace  tumultouously.  . . . 
In other words, New Zealand has a provision almost identical with that applying in Canada. I wonder how much further we have to go to persuade people. I hope and trust that we will not again have to demonstrate, as clearly as it possibly could be demonstrated by reference to the exact sections of the legislation throughout almost the whole of the common law .countries of the world, that this provision has no novelty whatsoever - that it is common to all countries. As  Senator Little  has said, not only is it common to the legislation of the States of Australia but also it is common to an application in the Australian Labor Party in its day to day proceedings, apparently, although that is something about which 1 have not the expert knowledge that he has. lt is common also to the United Kingdom, to Canada and to New Zealand. I hope and trust that we will not have to worry any further about this argument that this Bill introduces some novelty which is unknown in the law of the common law countries as we know them. 
I thank the honourable senator. 
At the moment I cannot understand the basis of concern. I have listened throughout the whole of this debate to the propositions which have been put by honourable senators opposite. I have attempted to understand them but at the moment I am not entirely clear and I would like either  Senator Murphy  or  Senator Toohey  to make the situation as to the objection to clause 21 (1.) clearer. The objection, as I understand it, is that this in some way presents circumstances which are dangerous to the interests of a person who inad vertently is caught in a situation. I do not understand why that should be so on a proper interpretation of clause 21 (1.). I heard  Senator James  McClelland's statement that one could be walking down such and such a street in Double Bay on one's way to the shop to buy whatever it was that one was thinking of buying. The Yugoslav Embassy is somewhere near. One could find oneself in the vicinity of the Yugoslav Embassy and because of that one could come within this evidentiary provision. 
Earlier this evening the Minister in charge of the Bill,  Senator Greenwood,  referred to this clause as an evidentiary clause. It is not a section constituting an offence but it is simply one which assists in some way in proving, prima facie only, certain of the facts which it would be necessary to prove. It assists in the question of proof and does not in any way govern the question of proof. I simply ask whether either  Senator Murphy  or  Senator Toohey  would elaborate their argument again. What is their objection to clause 21 (1.)? Why do they believe that this clause constitutes the danger which they say it does? I can well appreciate that  Senator James  McClelland or anybody else would be concerned that an innocent person could be caught up in a situation from which he could not extricate himself. Even when it came to court proceedings he could not prove himself not to have been in any way concerned with the demonstration or the unlawful assembly but, rather, that he was on his way shopping. It is just that nexus which, so far as I am concerned, in the speeches I have heard so far is entirely missing, and I would appreciate it if this point could be made clear. 
Much as I can imagine, knowing  Senator Mulvihill  as I do. that he would be most interested and concerned with that particular situation. I shall certainly be happy to leave that for the Minister to reply to. I am quite happy to comment only about the situation raised by  Senator Murphy.  It did seem to me that in his explanation, which was an answer to the question which I had raised, rather than explaining it he had somewhat obscured it because what he said was that the objection to clause 21 (1.) was really that it got down to subjecting a person to being open to the sort of abuse which he has said a person could be open to as a result of the provisions of clause 17. 

 Senator Murphy talked about the thugs who could be able to operate against this person where situations such as he envisaged earlier in the debate in relation to clause 17 should prevail. Why the provisions of clause 21 should make any difference at all as to whether that person could be subjected to the thuggery of the thugs which he envisages is something that escapes me entirely, because it could not possibly make any difference. Clause 21 could not possibly make any difference as to whether the imagined thugs under clause 17 (4.) are able to carry out their thuggery. 
If a person is physically present, whether clause 21 is there or not, if the arguments in relation to clause 17 (4.) are valid they are valid irrespective of clause 21. This is the part that I still do not understand as to what is the nature of the objection to clause 21. I am just trying to understand what is the particular objection that is taken. 
 lt all depends what we call first grade, I suppose, and perhaps we will not go through the definitions. I simply say that I would like somebody to define what it is that is being complained about before I consider whether that complaint is valid. I am still simply saying that clause 21 has nothing to do with whether somebody could be subjected to some form of thuggery because of the provisions of clause 17 (4.) 
Am I to take it from what  Senator Murphy  has said that he wishes the Crimes Act provisions to remain as they are? He has been talking about section 8a of the Crimes Act but he has not referred to section 8. To me the 2 necessarily go together.  Senator Murphy  said that the law should be left as it stands at the moment. If we were to leave the law as it is we would have the provisions of arrest without warrant in respect of breaches of the peace and we would have the other provision about which he has been speaking, namely, section 8a of the Crimes Act. I draw his attention to that matter because to me it is an important part of the consideration of what he has been saying. 
I move: 
In sub-clause  (2.)  leave out 'Attorney-General', insert 'the person holding, or performing the duties of, the office of Crown Solicitor . for the Commonwealth or Deputy Crown Solicitor for the Commonwealth in the State or Territory in which the offence is alleged to have been committed'. 
In support of that proposed amendment I refer first to the general principles relating to this matter. I would like to put it into the context, as I see it, of consideration of the question raised by  Senator Murphy  about which I have been concerned since I first saw this Bill. First, for general principles, I want to quote something which I think is generally accepted. It is a statement by  Sir Hartley  Shawcross in the House of Commons in 19S1 as reported in 
Hansard, volume 483, columns 681-8. It states: 
The existence of this discretion and the utility of this discretion in the Attorney-General whether or not to prosecute in particular cases has been so well recognised- - 
I emphasise those words - that there has been an increasing tendency in recent years to provide that there shall be no proceedings as to particular classes of offences created by Statute without the consent of the Attorney-General or- and again I emphasise - the Director of Public Prosecutions. That kind of provision has been made to ensure that there wm be no automatic prosecutions and that there will be no frivolous and unnecessary prosecutions in such cases. That is a Parliamentary recognition, if any such recognition were required, that it is the duty of the Attorney-General and the Director- that is the Director of Public Presecutions - to exercise their discretion in every case whether or not to invoke the machinery of the criminal law. 
That is a statement which I think has been accepted and which, as I shall develop in a moment, is in my view representative of the attitudes which have been adopted by parliaments over a considerable period of years. The Bill with which we are concerned is a public order Bill. The discussion of the Bill in this chamber has been very interesting and it has tended to be related to the current matters which may or may not be regarded by some people to be matters which are likely to create public disorder. National service, war, or peace - I am not suggesting they are not important matters - are not matters which are necessarily going to be at all times the most important matters and the matters about which there may be situations which cause problems so far as the keeping of public order is concerned. An existing example is the problem of religion which is creating disorder in parts of Ireland and other parts of the world. We have the problem of the conservationists who have become extremely distressed in recent times. As a member of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution I add that there is some considerable reason for becoming concerned. Conservationists concern themselves with questions like the Little Desert plan and the Lake Pedder flooding in Tasmania. People have become concerned with various other things. So this concerns not just one sector of the community. It may be any sector of the community which may be dealt with in one way or another by the provisions of this Bill. 
I am trying to put this situation into context. I think the discussion has tended to proceed on the basis that we were looking at it as being related to one thing only. I am simply saying that there is a breadth right throughout the community of potential situations in which we may have people who may be subjected to this Bill. Let us not think about this Bill from the point of view of the Yugoslavian embassy and  Senator Mulvihill  or particular demonstrators about a particular matter. That is the point I am making. 
It is a centuries old basis of law that it is in the public interest to have the ability to control assemblies and to prevent persons inflaming feelings so that persons are incited to violence. It is something which has been known in the law of Australia, the law of the United Kingdom and the law of most of the other Commonwealth countries. There are 2 basic considerations which are well known and well established in relation to this. The first is that there should be a filter system to determine whether prosecutions should be proceeded with. This is something which I suggest is well known and well established. An example is where there is a reasonable prima facie case for the prosecution to proceed and where there is some likelihood or reasonably apparent possibility of prosecutions being launched which are mala fide - that is prosecutions which are not brought bona fide. Those prosecutions should be subjected to some independent scrutiny otherwise one can have a tendency to inflame the situation which the law which was originally passed was intended to control. It is important from the point of view of the protection of the individual against a malicious or vexatious prosecution that there should be some system whereby, for instance,  Mr Citizen  Smith cannot be charged with murder or with an offence - perhaps a serious offence - under the Public Order Bill without there being a prima facie case established before the Press are able to say that  Mr Smith  appeared in court charged with such and such. 
It may be that that prosecution had been brought entirely without any bona fides on the part of the prosecutor simply to achieve a purpose which is unrelated to the question of obtaining a conviction and whether the law was broken. These are considerations. The Minister also mentioned considerations. He said that we must prevent the system of justice from being clogged completely by vexatious litigants bringing mala fide prosecutions and clogging up the courts. So that nobody will argue that this is something novel which is being suggested in relation to there being a filter system I shall make a further reference.  Senator Murphy  will be delighted, and  Senator Wheeldon  if he were here would be delighted, to know that I refer again to my good friend Halsbury, the third edition, volume 10, at pages 338 and 339 where a vast number of Acts are set out in which this type of system is operated. I shall pick a few examples to show that it is not over a short period of time that this system has been used. The consent of the Attorney-General is required in the United Kingdom, for instance, in the Roman Catholic Relief Act 1829; the Public Health Act 1875; the Geneva Convention Act 1911; the Agricultural Credits Act 1928; the Public Order Act 1936  -  I emphasise that Act because it has some relevance to this debate; the Public Utilities Street Works Act 1950; and the Rivers (Prevention of Pollution) Act 1951. For over 120 years this type of provision - that is a provision requiring the Attorney-General's consent - has been known to the English law and used in the English law. 
In relation to the Director of Public Prosecutions the consent which is required should be that of an official, a public servant, a senior Crown law officer, as opposed to a member of the Parliament. There are numerous examples of this. As some of them I instance the Lunacy Act 1890; the Punishment of Incest Act 1908; the Local Government Act 1933; and the Incitement to Disaffection Act 1934. An Act which would interest  Senator Cotton  is the Civil Aviation Act 1949. Another Act is the Dangerous Drugs Act 1951. Again I simply cite those Acts as an example of where the Director of Public Prosecutions in the United Kingdom is the person who has the role of deciding whether a prosecution should proceed. Other examples are the customs prosecutions where a senior customs officer must decide. In the Income Tax Act in the United Kingdom the consent of the Commissioner of Inland Revenue is required before a prosecution is instituted. Again, they are senior public servants whose consent is required, not a member of the Parliament. There is no absolute right to bring a prosecution. My point is that this is a situation well known to the law for a very long time - certainly well over a century - that there should be a filter system. Under this system one has an alternative between the AttorneyGeneral who is a member of the Parliament answerable on the floor of the Parliament or a senior Crown law officer or a senior officer of the department concerned whose Minister is answerable on the floor of the chamber in respect of what that particular person does. 
We also have the situation well known in the law where, in relation to indictable offences as  Senator Murphy  mentioned, these are taken in the final situation to the Supreme Court only with the approval of the Solicitor-General. I suggest that there is ample precedent for a provision such as that which exists in the Bill at the moment or which I have suggested should exist. 
I pass then to look at what sort of filter is preferable. Should it be the AttorneyGeneral or should it be an officer of the public service such as the Director of Public Prosecutions, the Solicitor-General or some other senior Crown law officer? The considerations I mention include the direct responsibility of an Attorney-General being answerable to Parliament. That is an argument in favour of the Attorney-General being the person who should have to exercise the discretion. That is one of the considerations. But if that Attorney-General is the person to be responsible he may have a situation where the rest of his responsibility is brought to a halt because he has so many mala fide prosecutions to consider. He is bound to give proper consideration to them and he has no time to do anything else. We may have the situation where prosecutions which are authorised and directed by him may be regarded - and, of course, they would be wrongly so regarded - by some of those who are being prosecuted as being politically motivated prosecutions, particularly in circumstances, which one could imagine would be a common circumstance whoever was in power and whatever the circumstances in which these sorts of provisions were being used, where the offender is violently politically opposed to the Attorney-General whose direction is to be sought by the provisions which exist at the moment. So it would be a case where it would appear that there was not an impartial prosecution being brought. 
We all know the old saying about not only must justice be done but it must manifestly appear to be done. I suggest that the persons who are to be prosecuted under a law such as this should not, either genuinely or for the purposes of whatever campaign they are wishing to be able to conduct, be able to say that there is a political prosecution. This would be wrong. It is not in the interests of public order. In fact, it is directly contrary to the interests of public order because it is inflammatory of disorder. After all, the whole purpose for which the Bill is conceived is that there should be an ability on the part of the community or on the part of the Government to carry out its responsibility to the community to keep order within the community. 
In anything that I have said about the Attorney-General I am not to be taken as saying that Attorneys-General of all political persuasions are not always faithful to the proper principles as expounded, for instance, by  Sir Hartley  Shawcross, but the situation is that their position can be misunderstood. The Attorney-General, if he was to make up his mind, would make up his mind as a lawyer, having regard to the public interest and not just whether there was a prima facie case. He would take into account all the aspects of the public interest and then decide whether it was proper to proceed with the prosecution. He would have regard to what his fellow Cabinet Ministers in particular instances may say, but I emphasise that he would not be subject to the direction of Cabinet That is a well established and well known principle. So we would have a situation in the normal course of events where the AttorneyGeneral would be making up his mind on the same principles as would a senior Crown law officer if that senior Crown law officer was given the responsibility of making the decision. 
We have  the  examples which are well known  of the  Solicitor-General, for instance, having to decide whether a person should  be  charged with manslaughter or murder; whether, for instance, in the case  of a  person who is dying of cancer, it is in  the  public interest to go through the performance  of a  trial to get a conviction before  the  person dies in circumstances which would  be  abhorrent to most people to imagine. There are all sorts of situations that one  tan  easily imagine in which a Solicitor-General would, in the normal course  of the  administration of the criminal law,  say that  . that particular prosecution should sot,  in.  the public interest, proceed.  This is  a discretion which has to be exercised  hi every  case, whether it be by a senior Crown  law  officer or whether it be  by an  Attorney-General, and on balance I consider  that the  requirements of the first consideration which I mentioned are best served  by- - 
I thank  Senator Murphy  for his courtesy. On balance, I consider that the requirements of the first consideration are best served by the filter discretion being exercised by a senior Crown Law departmental officer rather than  by  the Attorney-General. There is in that event no incitement to further disorder by either the intentional or unintentional but in either event misguided view that prosecutions are political prosecutions. There is then the maintenance in the best possible way of the view in the community that an impartial system of justice is being administered. I think this is something which, so far as the rule of law is concerned, is important. We must in a community maintain a respect for the law, and something which can denigrate the law is something which we must consider very carefully. 
I believe that in these sorts of circumstances the discretion being vested in the Attorney-General is something which can in the ultimate bring about a denigration of the law and a disrespect for the legal system which is not in the interests of the community. I think that, having regard to the fact that the same considerations are to be applied either by the Attorney-General or a senior departmental officer, where we have the advantage of no denigration of the law and where we have no disadvantage in the same principles being applied, we have only the other question to consider, and that is the question of whether there is someone answerable on the floor of the House of Parliament in relation to the particular matter. We have to make up our minds which it should be. I simply point out that a senior departmental officer of the Attorney-General's Department is obviously someone for whom the AttorneyGeneral is answerable on the floor of the chamber, so there is no disadvantage there. 
If there has been some exercise of a discretion which is manifestly unfair, the question may be raised on the floor of the chamber of the Parliament to the Attorney-General, and it is his responsibility to investigate in exactly the same way as it would be if the allegation was that an inspector in the Customs Department had done something wrong and the Minister for Customs was asked questions in relation to his activities. 
Attorney-General be answerable if he is not in control? 
I shall finish and then let  Senator Murphy  and  Senator Wheeldon  tear to pieces, if they wish, what I have said. I simply submit that, when taken overall, the interests of the community are best served if this discretion, which has been known to the law for more than 150 years in this type of circumstance, is vested in a senior Crown Law officer as opposed to the member of Parliament, the Attorney-General. For that reason, I have moved an amendment which makes the discretion to be that of the Crown Solicitor or his  deputy.  The Crown Solicitor for the Commonwealth is a person recognised by section 50 of the Judiciary Act, and he has a  deputy  in each State. This is a situation which does not in any way introduce anything which is novel to the law or novel to Australia, so far as the position of the person who has to exercise the discretion is concerned. I simply ask that honourable senators give consideration to whether the public interest is not best served by accepting this amendment. 
After that extraordinary outburst by  Senator Murphy  I feel that I should reply. I found it quite incredible that  Senator Murphy  should have become quite so emotional when replying. If he had listened to me he might have understood. I did notice that he was not listening to the first portion of my speech. But I am grateful to him for arranging for me to be able to complete what I had to say originally. I would like to point out certain things. Notwithstanding the rather extreme language that was used, my amendment does not alter the position in respect of all the indictable offences under this Act. The Solicitor General or the senior Crown Law officer - in other words, someone other than the Attorney-General - would, if there were no provision such as that contained in clause 23 (2.) have to decide whether a prosecution on an indictable offence under this Act were to proceed. That is the situation that exists in any event. My amendment extends that provision to include summary offences. It extends that provision also in relation to the committal for trial on indictable offences. 
I cannot see that  Senator Murphy's  extravagant language is justified, when one bears in mind that the situation which I have suggested should apply will apply if the position which he wants to achieve is achieved - that is, that no provision such as that contained in clause 23 (2.) will apply in respect of the more serious offences. The filter will be a filter through a senior Crown Law Officer. The rest of his extravagant statements, which have no legal validity, about palming political responsibility onto public officers to avoid political decisions showed a rather 
Surprising and complete distraction from the way in which our law operates. I do  not  comment further about the personal abuse which was heaped on me. I denied that during his speech. As I understand it, he accepted my denial. Therefore, I will not pursue the matter further. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (3.), leave out 'Attorney-General', insert 'the person holding, or performing the duties of, the office of Crown Solicitor for the Commonwealth or Deputy Crown Solicitor for the Commonwealth in the State or Territory in which the offence is alleged to have been committed'. 
This amendment is consequential on the amendment I moved earlier this evening. It is the first of the 2 amendments circulated earlier this evening. I do not need to explain anything about it; it simply follows that because we have agreed to the amendment to clause 23 we must make clause 1 1 coincide with clause 23. 
To answer  Senator Murphy  I refer to what I said earlier.  Senator Murphy's  intemperance does not make the validity of his argument any stronger. I have already indicated that were his suggestion to be accepted - that is complete deletion of any such provision - the situation would still be the same. The same officer or an officer holding a similar position would still have to make a decision in relation to the majority of offences created under this Act; that is, those which would go on indictment. The situation postulated by  Senator Murphy  is unreal and I do not intend to answer it any further. Anyone who reads this section of the Hansard report can easily refer to the earlier sections in which  Senator Murphy  made the same remarks and I replied to them in more detail. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Rae's amendment)  be left out. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to newspaper reports of a statement made by the Premier of South Australia,  Mr Dunstan,  that he is considering taking action to make impossible the establishment of cut price petrol retail outlets in South Australia? Does this indicate a case for either the Federal Government or the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  to intervene to prevent  Mr Dunstan's  retail price maintenance plans being implemented? 
 My question is addressed to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. Has there been a resolution of the problems arising from the plans of the Premier of South Australia,  Mr Dunstan,  for resale price maintenance in relation to the sale of petrol? Is the resolution one which gives full and unrestricted freedom to petrol retailers to sell to the public at whatever rate of cut price a retailer fixes and in whatever quantities he and the public desire? 
I preface a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport by stating that on 20th April I asked a question relating to the daily dumping of acid production effluent off-shore from the north coast of Tasmania and asked whether that material was harmful to marine life or to persons. I now inquire whether the Minister is in a position to give a reply to the question that I then asked. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. By way of a brief preface, I point out that the Senate is now about to adjourn for the winter recess, which is the period of fogs and smogs, ills and chills, floods and flooded sewers and the spread of water borne diseases. Is the Minister now in a position to answer the question which I asked him on 21st April last, namely, whether he has read the report of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution and, if so, whether he will he indicate what action his Department is taking to ensure that all possible steps are taken to control and reduce the pollution which has been found by that Committee to exist to a serious degree in Australia? 
I ask a question of the 
Minister for Health. I refer to the question I asked earlier about pollution control. I note that, perhaps because of lack of emphasis, the Minister may have missed the point of my question. I intended to ask not what the Government was doing but what the Department of Health was doing in relation to its area of direct responsibility - whether it be in Commonwealth Territories or in any other way within Commonwealth jurisdiction - to implement any of the recommendations of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution. I would be grateful if the Minister would direct his comments to and answer if he can that particular matter. 
I do not wish to raise anything other than matters which are strictly related to the Bill which we have before us. In raising certain questions relating to the provisions of the Bill I simply indicate that it appears that there are some misunderstandings abroad in relation to those provisions, and on behalf of the people who have made representations to me as to that matter, and also to  Senator Buttfield,  who unfortunately is ill today and cannot raise the matters herself, I raise these matters so that they can be answered, for the benefit of those who are listening to the debate or who will read it, in the explanation of the Minister. I raise them not because I am in doubt about them but because others are and they should have the opportunity to hear from the Minister the information they seek. The first matter I raise is in relation to proposed new section 66c. I understand that some people are concerned with the effect of that provision, which states in effect that suppliers are not to make recommendations as to the price of  goods  without the following statement also being made: 
The price set out or referred to herein is a recommended price only and there is no obligation to comply with the recommendation. 
People are concerned that that may apply, for instance, to newspapers and that where the price is shown on the top right hand side of the front page of the newspaper as 7c or whatever it may be, the statement will also have to be made that 'the price stated herein is a recommended price and there is no obligation to comply with the recommendation'. If prices are printed on books, as often happens, that statement will have to appear. 
I draw the attention of the Minister and the Committee to the fact that proposed new section 66e gives some further explanation as to when a statement is to be applied to goods. It provides that a statement shall be deemed to have been used in relation to goods in certain circumstances, and it sets out 3 different sets of circumstances. Proposed new section 66b (2.) states: "... a  person . . . engages in the practice of resale price maintenance if - 
the supplier uses, in relation to any goods supplied or that may be supplied, by him to a second person,  a  statement of  a  price that is likely to be understood by that person as the price below which the goods are not to be sold. 
It appears that there is confusion as to the exact effect of these provisions, and so that people may be helped in the interpretation of the legislation when it is passed, I ask the Minister to explain just what is the effect of these provisions as they relate to newspapers and books. Another example given to me concerns a manufacturer who is engaged in advertising certain goods on television programmes. If he says in that advertising that the goods may be obtained from such and such a store at such and such a price, will that constitute a breach of the provisions of this legislation? I raise those matters first; there are others relating to other matters which I will raise later. 
I raise, in relation to proposed new section 66d, matters further to those raised by  Senator Laucke.  I raise them for the same reason as before. There appears to be much misunderstanding in the community about these matters. I raise them on behalf of  Senator Buttfield,  so that people may read the Minister's explanation. 
Yes, I am asking them on my own behalf for the assistance of people who have made representations to her. Firstly I would like to obtain some further elaboration as to whether there is anything in the legislation which would require a supplier in some way to deal with a would-be retailer with whom he does not wish to deal. 
Let us not continue with that. Let us get on with the actual questions. Secondly, will the supplier's marketing arrangements made as to outlets and as to service by those outlets be interfered with in some way? These matters were referred to by  Senator Webster  to some extent last night. They have been raised by other people. Can the Minister confirm that in no way these situations will arise because of this legislation? Further, it appears to be thought by some that in some way suppliers will be forced to discontinue discounts for volume or price differentials for some special trading reason. I ask the Minister whether there is any foundation for that assumption. To me there does not appear to be any. It may be better if the Minister confirmed that that is not intended. Will the Minister explain why the words used in proposed new section 66d(1.)(c) were used in drafting this Bill in preference to the form of words used in section 2(3)(b) of the United Kingdom Resale Prices Act of 1964, which states that if a supplier - 
. refuses to supply those goods to the dealer except  on  prices, or on terms or conditions as to credit, discount or other matters, which are - 
I emphasise these words -  significantly less favourable than those at or on which he normally supplies goods to other dealers carrying on business - 
I emphasise the following words - in  similar circumstances. 
Clause 61 (2.) provides: 
The Commissioner shall also cause to be served on the claimant ... a notice stating that, if the claimant is dissatisfied with the determination, the Commissioner will, on request by him, furnish to him a copy of . . . (a)....... 
any certificate given to the Commissioner . . . 
any document furnished to the Commissioner - 
That is any medical certificate- given to the Commissioner and any document furnished to the Commissioner on behalf of the Commonwealth. This provides a departure from the previous practice. It was a departure which I applaud. It means that a person who has been injured and examined by a medical practitioner under the provisions of the legislation, and on whom a report has been made by that medical practitioner, may now obtain a copy of the report. Under the previous legislation the practice was not to supply a copy. I wish to draw to the attention of the Minister for Health  (Senator Greenwood)  a specific case and ask him whether special consideration may be given to it. It concerns the case of one Edward Paul Morowski who was in the Royal Australian Air Force. He made a claim in Decmber 1969 in respect of what was claimed to be an injury entitling him to compensation under the Act. On 23rd September 1970 the claim was rejected on the grounds that the medical report did not give sufficient basis for admitting the claim. On 7th October 1970 the claimant was asked for a copy of the medical report and on 11 November was advised by letter that the report was confidential and would not be supplied. 
I pause to say that the situation was that this man had been refused compensation on the basis of a medical report which would not be provided to him by the persons who had caused the report to be obtained. This seemed to me to be a wrong situation. I am glad to see that the new Bill covers it. To continue this story very briefly, on 18th November solicitors acting for  Mr Morowski  again requested that a copy of the report be supplied and pointed out that if proceedings were instituted they believed they would then be able to obtain a copy of the report but that by supplying  a  copy now the necessity for and waste  of  money ininstituting further proceedings may be avoided. Eventually on 11th January 1970 the solicitors acting for  Mr Morowski  were again informed that the report was confidential and would not be supplied. In view of the fact that this amendment is being made and that this claim is still relatively current, and in the hope that the perhaps unnecessary expense of instituting proceedings can be avoided, I ask the Minister whether he will request that consideration be given to making this report available and to making an ex gratia payment to the claimant. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the Tasmanian Pensioners Union on behalf of the undersigned citizens of Tasmania respectfully showeth: 
That dueto the higher living cost, persons on social service pensions are finding it extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. 
They are only asking for the right to spend their diminishing years with a medium of comfort in the way of housing, food and clothing. Surely this is not too much a share of Australia's muchvaunted prosperity. 
We your petitioners, therefore humbly pray that: 
Old Age Pensions be immediately increased to a minimum of $24.50 per week for a single person. 
That all other pensions be increased correspondingly. 
That all pensions be increased quarterly according to the cost of living index. 
That all diabetic foods and medicines be included on the Pensioners Pharmaceutical free list. and our petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The humble petition of 12 electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth - 
That a United Nations General Assembly Resolution has declared that the Geneva Protocol of 1925, which Australia has ratified, prohibits the use in international armed conflict of any chemical agents of warfare - chemical substances whether gaseous, liquid or solid- employed for their direct toxic effects on man. animals or plants; 
That the World Health Organisation confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
That the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds that the Geneva Protocol does not prevent the use in war of certain toxic chemical substances in the form of herbicides, defoliants and 'riotcontrol' agents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray - 
That the Parliament take note of the concensus of international political, scientific and humanitarian opinion; and 
That honourable senators urge upon the Government the desirability of revising its interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical substances employed for their toxic effects on man, animals or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down by that Protocol. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
To what extent, if at all, does the Department of Education and Science consult with the Council of the Federation of Australian University Staff Associations on matters which that body would have special knowledge, experience or opinion? 
Will the Minister give consideration to instructing consultation to be undertaken if there has in fact been no such consultation? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. Knowing his background interest in the subject, I ask him whether he has, since assuming office, had the opportunity to ascertain whether his Department has made any further progress in relation to the question of Commonwealth participation with the States and the legal profession in the creation of a uniform and national legal assistance scheme to ensure that all persons in all circumstances have a reasonable opportunity to take or defend proceedings in our courts? 
1 ask the AttorneyGeneral whether he has yet had an opportunity to ascertain what progress has been made by his departmental officers in considering the possible introduction of a system of family courts in Australia. Can he indicate, either now or after checking with his Department, whether that consideration has progressed towards the formulation of a proposal? 
Before I continue my speech in relation to the evidence ordinance may I congratulate  Senator Negus  on his maiden speech. It was made with a great deal of feeling and a great deal of confidence. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate him and wish him well in this chamber. 
Before this debate was adjourned this afternoon I was speaking about the ordinance under discussion. I said that it appeared that there were 2 agreed matters which had to be resolved by one means or another. One was that we had to get as soon as possible a body of law to apply in the Australian Capital Territory in relation to the question of evidence. The second was that we had to facilitate a debate in this chamber as to the contents of the new evidence ordinance which was proposed and disallowed. 
It seems that there is no real difference between anyone as to those 2 matters; the only question is how we should go about it. I have not heard from  Senator Murphy  or from anyone else why we should not accept the proposal put forward by the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood). Senator Turnbull  said that he would change his vote if it could be shown that an injustice would occur if the matter was not proceeded with. I wish simply to indicate to him that I believe an injustice would occur if something is not done very quickly because there are people in custody awaiting trial - people charged with offences who will be kept in custody until such time as a trial takes place. 
If we adopt the Minister's idea so, too, will it be all over. I was simply indicating to  Senator Turnbull  that if we continue to debate this matter an injustice can occur to these people.  I  would like to invite him to consider stopping the argument, start the action and let us get something done. If there is no good reason for not accepting the Minister's proposal then let us accept it rather than argue about it. I suggest that the chamber proceed accordingly. 
The arguments advanced would appear to be somewhat incredible. Let us get back to the basic points for a moment to consider what is involved in this matter. First of all, the ordinance was disallowed on the argument that it was a matter which should be debated fully by the Parliament before becoming law, that it contains some novel aspects of law which were not disapproved of as such by the Regulations and Ordinances Committee but which the Committee felt should be debated within the Parliament. Accordingly the majority of the members of the Senate disallowed that particular ordinance so that there would be an opportunity, it was said at the time, for legislation to be introduced which could be debated. The second point is that by its disallowance the Senate has deprived the Australian Capital Territory of any law relating to evidence so that trials cannot continue as they would normally do and persons who are in custody awaiting trial are being held in custody for a greater length of time than they would otherwise be held. Obviously it is creating an injustice so far as those individuals are concerned. 
Therefore there are  2  problems. The first is the injustice of the delay to the individual and the second is the disruption of the normal processes of law by, in effect, having to close down the courts for a period of time until this matter is resolved. So it does appear that there is now in this chamber a general will to overcome the problem so that the Australian Capital Territory will have some necessary body of evidence law to enable the trial of persons charged with crimes or offences to continue and to continue as soon as possible. From what I have heard of the debate it seems that there is a uniform feeling towards that end. Secondly, as  1  understand it, there is a uniform feeling that at an appropriate time there should be an opportunity for this chamber to debate the substance of the proposed law or the contents of the new law which was contained in the ordinance which was disallowed. As I understand the situation there is no disagreement that that should happen at an appropriate time in the near future. So there is no disagreement about those matters. The only question is how to achieve this situation. To me it seems to be a somewhat extraordinary situation that there should be so much debate about how to achieve something which is relatively simple. I would have thought the situation is that when the Minister puts forward an adequate proposal - and I have not heard his proposal constructively criticised to show what was wrong with it in relation to its achieving the  2  basic objectives I have mentioned - and if there is nothing wrong with it why should  Senator Murphy  or anybody else- 
Sitting suspended from  5.45  to  8  p.m. 
Government Business taking precedence at  8  p.m. 
by leave -  Senator Murphy  has indicated in relation to the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange, of which I am the  Chairman,  that he believes that a prompt interim report on the desirability and feasibility of a securities and exchange commission should be given by that Committee to the Senate. In answer to what  Senator Murphy  has said 1 wish to explain that the Committee has followed a programme of inquiry to determine fully all aspects of the terms of reference. Many of the questions are interlinked and interrelated and their relative importance and overall importance can only be determined as a result of a full inquiry. Part of the problem which has existed in relation to the regulation of the securities industry, not only in Australia but also in other places, has arisen from the fact that steps have been taken in relation to it without full consideration of the interrelated effects of those steps. 
I believe that steps have been taken by the stock exchanges and by the State Parliaments this year in relation to the overall problem to which  Senator Murphy  referred. The whole matter is extremely complex. It is a matter in which it is desirable that in relation to any recommendation there should be able to be a central theme and a reconciliation between the various interests - the individual interest and the public interest and the various sections of that. The Committee has considered and is still considering the possibility of bringing in an interim report, with the full substantiating evidence to be produced at a later date. I am certain that I can speak on behalf of the Committee in saying to the Senate that the Committee is fully aware of the importance of bringing in a report at the earliest possible date. 
But whether there should be any form of national regulatory body and what form it should take if there is to be any such body is a matter as to which certain further important evidence has yet to be heard. I believe that it would be unfortunate if, after all the work that has been done by the Committee, precipitate action was to be taken by this chamber to endeavour to have the Committee bring in a report which proved to be an ill considered or hasty report or one which did not cover fully the various aspects of the terms of reference. Parts of the report are in the course of preparation at this stage. I can but indicate to the Senate that, having listened to what  Senator Murphy  said and in any event the Committee was fully conscious of it, giving all assiduous attention to it the Committee will proceed to bring in a report on this matter at the first possible time. 
I, like  Senator Withers,  am somewhat surprised to find so little interest taken in a matter of such importance and gravity by those who apparently put forward this Bill for the abolition of capital punishment under the laws of the Commonwealth. I recognise that this Bill deals with a subject about which one would not expect people to take Party attitudes. I would have expected people to reach their own conclusion after deep thought and firm personal conviction. I find it extraordinary that not a soul from the Opposition side of the chamber has felt such firm conviction as to give honourable senators on this side of the chamber the benefit of some arguments to support the case in which they apparently believe. I mention this, following upon what  Senator Withers  said, because to my mind it is more than surprising. That is where  Senator Withers  and I part so far as the debate is concerned. 
 Lengthy debates already have taken place throughout the world on this subject and I would hope that every honourable senator would have a firm, fixed and reasoned attitude to it. I do not accept what  Senator Poyser  has said as being sufficient reason for not putting on the record at least some of the reasons for the Opposition's belief. That is why I am speaking tonight. I do not know that I can add anything fresh on the subject. I do not know that anything really new can be said about it. The subject has been argued for hundreds of years. It has been argued from a moral point of view, from a legalistic point of view and from the point of view of the organisation of society; it has been argued from every point of view imaginable. 
The point I want to make is this: The result of all the argument in those countries of the world which can be regarded as advanced countries has been a decision in favour of the abolition of the death penalty. That decision has been taken after lengthy consideration and debate and a gradually growing abhorrence on the part of the people of those communities to the idea that anything worth while to society is achieved from deliberately and cold bloodedly in the name of society taking the life of a fellow human being and a fellow member of that society. 
I accept, as did  Senator Carrick,  that there can be exceptions to this. I do not wish to become involved in a lengthy explanation. I simply wish to mention selfdefence, where immediate need and immediate action is involved. There is also the larger form of self-defence to which  Senator Byrne  referred when he talked about a just war. I do not want to divert this debate onto the question of war; I simply mention it in passing because I think we must draw a differentiation between that matter and the mere organisation of internal society. I would not approve the adoption of the attitude that because someone may accept that in special circumstances of immediate need it could be regarded as justifiable to take a life, it should necessarily follow that in the organisation of society we can take a life in cold blood. 
To those who support the retention of capital punishment I pose one question. I ask them to consider whether they are prepared to carry out the execution. I know that that question is raised often in a debate on this subject but I wish to raise it again tonight. I think it is a basic and fundamental question to anybody who has to make a decision in relation to this subject. It is one thing to be a member of a group acting in self-defence, and an entirely different thing to be a member of a society and to have a cold blooded execution carried out in your name. I think that is part of the approach we have to adopt in order to reach a decision on this matter. I ask: Do you think that that may tend to brutalise you? Do you think that that may tend to make you adopt attitudes which are not to the ultimate benefit of society? If those in favour of capital punishment are not prepared to acknowledge that by their support they must reach that situation, then I do not see how they can say that society is entitled to have someone - the hangman - carry out the execution for them. That is just a consideration but it Ls one which weighs heavily with me. 
There has been some discussion tonight about other aspects of punishment. This also has been discussed throughout the years at very considerable length. There are many theories about punishment but perhaps the accepted one is that there are 3 aspects - retribution, deterrence and rehabilitation. As far as capital punishment is concerned, there is no aspect of rehabilitation. We go then to justification which must be either retribution or deterrent. I challenge anyone who is a supporter of capital punishment to produce anything which really substantiates the deterrent aspect of capital punishment. Tonight I listened to  Senator Webster  with considerable interest. He spoke about the English situation but he failed to compare the rise in crime rates in the United Kingdom during the period to which he related his comments with the rise in crime rates in other countries with a similar type of social and economic development and which have retained capital punishment. I think he would find that the world wide trend is comparable whether or not there is capital punishment. Certainly there is no evidence to substantiate the suggestion that the existence of capital punishment prevents the crime rate from rising even in respect of major offences, let alone any effect which it is supposed to have flowing down to lesser crimes for which capital punishment would not be applicable. 
I would thank  Senator Webster  not to stir me on the subject of the hanging Premier of Victoria. 
Perhaps I should say 'the Premier of Victoria who supports the retention of capita] punishment in such circumstances'. I pass on to other aspects of the subject. I suggest that as a society which has reached the stage of development which we have reached, unless we can satisfy ourselves beyond any reasonable doubt that the deterrent aspect justifies capital punishment then there is no justification for it unless it is mere retribution. Although emotionally many of us can think of the sort of example  to  which  Senator Webster  refers, where it would be normal and natural for a person to feel a desire for retribution and where I can feel sympathy for anybody who reaches the stage of being overwhelmed by the desire for retribution, standing back as one responsible for the passing of legislation I do not think we can become involved  in  that sort of emotional reaction to what happened in a particular circumstance. It is rather a matter of looking at whether there is any justification based upon the deterrent aspect. 
In discussing this matter,  Senator Laucke  said that where the matter is proven beyond any shade of doubt he believed there was justification. Knowing  Senator Laucke  as I do, 1 completely accept the sincerity of every remark . which he made. But the point I make to him is that I do . not have the same confidence which he has in the legal system as we know it to be able to reach a decision that a matter is proven beyond any shade of doubt - even beyond reasonable doubt. When one bears in mind the existence of the jury system, of newspapers and the various things which can influence people who are brought in from their ordinary jobs and put on a jury in unfamiliar circumstances - people who have probably read of the crime with which the person is charged and who have been emotionally stirred by their abhorrence of the situation - I find some difficulty in being able to accept that they could ever judge whether a matter was proven beyond any shade of doubt. That is not their charge as jurors and it is taking an impossible test which is unknown to our law. This is a matter of personal decision. My personal decision is one which I have followed and believed in for a very long time. I shall support the vote at any time for (he abolition of capital punishment in Australia or in any other place where I have any opportunity to play a part in the decision. 
I have only a short time to speak and therefore I do not intend to speak on matters related directly to the Budget. However, having listened to  Senator Georges,  I am reminded that perhaps one could say that the time has come to speak of many things. I wish to speak briefly about a number of different subjects. The first and foremost of them is the question taken up by  Senator Georges  - pollution. I propose to approach the subject from a different direction. I approach it from the aspect that the Senate established the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution and the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution to investigate these problems. Both these committees presented very full reports in which they arrived at a considerable number of conclusions of fact, some of which were alarming. They made a number of recommendations, a discussion of which on a public basis I have not heard since the reports were presented. I can but express my disappointment that a matter which is regarded by the community as one of very considerable importance, a matter which is regarded by government as being of considerable importance, a matter in respect of which Senate committees have spent a considerable amount of time in gathering together a vast body of opinion and fact evidence and have prepared a report, has not yet really been put into the public arena for debate as a result of any action of the Government. 
I thank the honourable senator for reminding me of that. I simply wish to take this opportunit to remind government generally, and the Minister in charge of questions relating to the environment, that these actions have been taken, that they are regarded by the Senate as urgent and that they are regarded by the people of Australia as urgent. 
I should like very briefly to quote from some sections of the report of the Seriate Select Committee on Water Pollution. Perhaps one of the first references that I should take from the report is the statement: 
Behind most pollution problems lie the twin  factors of  ignorance  and inertia. 
I hope that situation is changing, but I hope also that very shortly we will see some demonstration of the fact that it is a changing situation. I should like also to refer to another part of the report where it states: 
The problem of pollution is so vast, the responsibility so diffused, and the ignorance of causes and consequences so widespread, that only a concerted national effort can save many Australian water resources from becoming unusable. 
That was not an ill-considered statement; it was a statement made positively and clearly by the Committee as a result of the very great volume of evidence which it had received. I hope that the meetings which are taking place and which are to take place in relation to steps to be taken will bring about urgent action on the basis of a concerted national effort. In relation to a concerted natonal effort I mention that in the report of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution a number of points are set out on the question of a national approach. There is reference to the need for co-ordination, the need for an assessment of present and potential pollution, the question of techniques for abatement and control, the determination of criteria, finance and legislation, and international considerations. 
The Committee recommended that Australia should adopt a national approach to the management of water resources, setting out acceptable standards, co-ordinating the aims and aspirations of State and local government authorities, and creating the machinery to achieve them in balance with other national goals such as those for growth and development, lt recommended that the Commonwealth should take urgent steps to establish a national water commission. I have been wondering what has happened to the suggestion of a national water commission. I am given cause to worry a little further when I am told, subject to correction, of course, that the inter-departmental committee set up to investigate this matter did not contain a member or representative of the AttorneyGeneral's Department. I would have thought that anybody seriously approaching the question of the recommendations made by the Senate Committee would be concerned to ascertain whether or not the Committee's suggestions in relation to this matter* were valid under constitutional law. 
I notice that there were other bodies whose recommendations were considered by the interdepartmental committee set up last year. They also recommended a national approach; that some steps should be taken not necessarily exactly along the lines taken by the Senate Committee but necessarily involving consideration of the question of the extent to which action could be taken under the Commonwealth Constitution either by the Commonwealth or by the Commonwealth and the States acting together to create a national water commission or a national environment body of some sort with sufficient power, sufficient teeth and sufficient incentive to take some action to overcome the problems which have been referred to and which are set out, in startling form, in the reports of the. 2 committees. 
The statement by the new Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  quoted by  Senator Georges  a few moments ago is something else that causes me some concern. If  Mr Howson  says that the Commonwealth has no power, I would like to raise again the question whether that is a considered opinion. ls that an opinion of the Commonwealth's legal advisers or is that an assumption based upon some consideration which has not extended to the same sort of consideration as was given, for instance, by the Senate Committee which had evidence before it from top constitutional lawyers in Australia whose views were taken into account at the time those recommendations were made. I would be extremely interested to know - as I am sure many other people would - just how far has the Commonwealth considered the extent to which it can take action either alone or jointly with the States in relation to this problem. In the short time available to me in which to speak the only other matter to which I wish to refer is the question of computers and the effects that they have upon the changing society in Australia. Computers have had a dramatic effect. It was feared that they would be likely to bring about redundancy and retrenchment of staff. 
 There have been some indications that this might happen. What I was going to say is that the further surveys conducted would indicate that it has been very rare that computers have caused redundancy and retrenchment of staff. Rather they have caused the need for replacement of staff into other activities. What has happened, I think, if one goes through the industries which have introduced computers, is that they have increased the productivity per person but have not brought about any large scale retrenchment. They have revealed a need for continuing education, for adult education, for the re-education of people perhaps made redundant in one particular aspect of their prior training and experience. The need for retraining them becomes greater with the increasing mechanisation of our society. This draws into emphasis the importance of adult education or continuing education - whichever name one likes to give to it. 
I would like to take this opportunity to commend the National Adult Education Board for the steps it is starting to take in relation to this - the initiative which it is taking. I hope it will continue to receive adequate support from the Commonwealth Government and from the other bodies in industry and elsewhere in the community so that it will continue its work in relation to the question of computers and the reorganisation of the rural sector to provide re-training for people who no longer can be gainfully employed or gainfully engaged in the rural sector. All these are areas in which the continuing education programme in Australia can play an important role and, I believe, must play an important role. 
Two other questions arise in relation to computers. One is the question of copyright which, again, does not seem to have been considered to any extent but which is a most important question. The second, which has caused legislation to be introduced in the United States of America, is the right of the employee as against the employer. If an employee who is a system expert programmes a computer in a particular way he can make himself indispensable. If he is dismissed or has to leave his employer for some reason or other then without his co-operation the cost to the company of working out a system and of reintroducing a system could be very great indeed. I understand that this is a matter which has caused people in the United States to give special consideration to what are the relative rights of the employer and the employee in that type of situation. I simply suggest that this is a matter which we in Australia also should be considering. 
Those,  Mr Deputy President,  are the few remarks I wanted to make at this stage. Questions more directly related to the Budget and its implications, and some of the economic aspects of matters dealt with in the Budget, are matters which we will get the opportunity to debate at a later stage, at which time I shall take the opportunity open to me. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! In calling  Senator Brown  I should advise the Senate that this is the occasion of the honourable senator's maiden speech. 
Is the Attorney-General aware of a judgment given yesterday in the Northern Territory by  Mr Justice  Forster relating to the constitutional powers of parliamentary committees? If so, has the Minister had a chance to study the judgment? Does he agree that this in no way relates to the constitutional power of Commonwealth parliamentary committees, as suggested in Press reports published today? 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. I ask: Has he now had an opportunity to read the judgment that was given by  Mr Justice  Forster in the Northern Territory Supreme Court last Monday relating to an interpretation of the powers of the Northern Territory Legislative Council? If so, does he have anything to add to the answer that he gave to a question I asked of him last Tuesday? 
My question, which is directed to the Attorney-General, follows upon the question asked by  Senator Brown  and other questions asked earlier in this session. Is the Minister a former elected  president  of the Students Representative Council of the University of Melbourne? If he is, has he any understanding of and sympathy for the aims, the ideals and the functions of student representative bodies as a result of the experience which he may have had? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. Is it correct that one of the important aspects of the responsibilities of the Ministers in the other place is the role of co-ordination? If so, will the Minister ascertain from his colleague and report to the Senate what steps have been taken since his appointment to co-ordinate the actions of the various Commonwealth departments and the actions of the Commonwealth and the States in relation to pollution abatement and control and towards achieving a balance between conservation and development? 
asked the Minister repre sentingthe Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has the Treasury made any overall survey, in the past 3 years, in relation to the various forms of taxation in use in Australia; if so, has consideration been given to (a) the introduction of either a capital gains tax or net wealth tax; (b) the abolition of death duties; and (c) any consequential variations in the form and incidence of sales tax, income lax, company tax and other taxes and, if so, will the Treasurer consider presenting to the Parliament  a  'white paper' setting out the details of the various factors considered. 
In recent years some studies have been made in the Treasury and the Taxation Office of various features of the taxation system of Australia and of some other countries. These studies have naturally touched on matters of the kind referred to by the Honourable  Senator. The  question of presenting a 'white paper' will be kept under notice for consideration at the appropriate time. 
Has the attention of the Attorney-General been drawn to Press reports of statements of various directors of Queensland Mines Ltd relating to the introduction to the board of that company of  Mr R.  J. Searls, who is the Australian managing director for Newmont, a large United States mining company? 
In addressing my question to the Minister for Works, 1 have no doubt that he will be well aware that an adequacy of trained personnel will be of great importance to the future development and stability of Papua New Guinea, particularly after it has been granted independence. Will the Minister inform the Senate of the action being taken by his Department to train local personnel? 
I think perhaps the debate of this evening and this afternoon could be described now as something which had a degree of importance, a degree of seriousness, which certainly warranted the attention of the Parliament - the attention of the Parliament by way of question, the attention of the Parliament by way of answer - but the attention ot the Parliament by way of a lengthy debate on an amended motion which no longer has any real meaning to it is something which I find hard to understand. 
 Senator Poke,  if you would mind just trying to pay attention to running your side of the show and stopping  Senator Murphy  from whipping  Senator Poyser's  head off I will get on with my speech and we will all be much better off, I am sure. Getting on with the matter under discussion, the statement of the matter of urgency originally raised by  Senator Murphy  was in these terms: 
The Government's neglect  in  failing to  introduce  legislation to regulate and supervise accident insurance. 
We have already heard from  Senator Durack  as to the meaning of accident insurance and how apparently the drafting of this motion was not quite in accord with what intended by it. I will not pause any longer other than to say that  Senator 
Murphy's motion apparently was intended to relate to general insurance and not accident insurance. But then at the suggestion of  Senator Byrne  he accepted an amendment which deleted the words 'neglect in failing to introduce' and substituted the words 'delay in introducing', so that we now have the statement of a matter of urgency in these terms: 
The Government's delay in introducing legislation to regulate and supervise accident insurance. 
This matter, I would have thought, has been fully explained by the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood)  who is in charge of the debate and who has indicated the sort of considerations which have created the delay. Perhaps if one can take the simple matter that if Rome was not built in a day, general accident insurance legislation is not likely to be built in a day either. 
Or a year because, as  Senator James  McClelland is happy to remind me, it tends to happen that parliaments before having presented to them by a government legislation for consideration expect that government to have given adequate consideration to the drafting of it, and this is what happened in 1945 in relation to the Life Insurance Act. I must say to the credit of the then government, the Labour Government of the day - a credit which I am not sure is reflected in similar terms in the attitudes expressed by the Opposition here - it worked long and hard on drafting the Life Insurance Bill 1945. The Bill was supported by the Opposition - the present Government - and the then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Menzies,  spoke strongly in favour of it, with one or two exceptions into which we need not go. But one of the features about that legislation was that it was a matter which had been very carefully considered. It was a matter in relation to which the drafting had taken into account the legislation from Great Britain, South Africa and several other countries. It was legislation which had taken into account the royal commission which had taken place in Victoria at the end of the 1930s and a number of experiences of the various States in legislating in this field. I think the care that was taken in preparing that legislation is well demonstrated in its usefulness by the report in 1970 of the Insurance Commissioner appointed under that Act who said: 
Since 1946 it has been found desirable to amend the Act on several occasions and it is inevitable that further amendments will be required from time to time to meet changing conditions. Nevertheless, the basic principles embodied in the Act remain the same as when the Act was first introduced. This record is a testimonial to the foresight and skill of those responsible for the preparation of those principles and for their translation into legislation. 
I hope that when in 25 years time this Parliament is considering the general insurance legislation it will be possible to have before it a report of a general insurance commissioner or such other person in a similar position who will be able to say that the record of that legislation is a testimonial to the foresight and skill of those responsible for the preparation of those principles and for their translation into legislation. 
I was referring to 25 years of operation. One anticipates that we will have legislation this year. One anticipates that 25 years from then we will be a'ble to look back, as we can now on the operation of the Life Insurance Act, and see with what success, with what dangers, and with what inefficiencies the Act has been able to be enforced and used by those charged with administering it. I would hope that a good Act, even if delayed, in a field such as this is a better Act than one hastily but ill-conceived which creates problems greater than the problems which it was intended to overcome. 
I pass from that, which is a matter of relatively little importance at this stage of the debate, when the whole debate has lost its meaning as a result of the amendment accepted by  Senator Murphy  who gave the impression of spinning the motion off his head as he walked in, having in his hand the 'Sydney Morning Herald' and in his mind a feeling of bitterness towards  Senator Greenwood  for some reason inexplicable to those who sit back and try to watch with some objectivity what goes on. There may be some explanation. I do not know why  Senator Murphy  displayed such animosity this afternoon and this evening towards the Attorney-General. It was said  that  Senator Greenwood  said that there was no problem. I think we should refer to Hansard of yesterday.  Senator Greenwood  did not say that there was not any problem nor did he say, as was attributed to him by  Senator James  McClelland and  Senator Murphy,  that he was unaware of any problem. He said: 
All I will say is that it is a matter which has had some publicity given to it in recent months. 
How could  Senator Greenwood  say that it is a matter which has had some publicity given it in recent months if he were unaware of the existence of the problem? It is being pedantic in the extreme - in fact, it is offensive nit picking - to use the arguments which have been used in relation to  Senator Greenwood's  answer to try to support an unsupportable motion when the matter should have come before this chamber by way of question only. The question should have been: When is it anticipated that the legislation will be introduced? 
If the question had been directed to the responsible Minister, the Treasurer, through the Minister representing him in this chamber one might have expected an answer. 
Apparently  Senator James  McClelland is not able to realise within whose ministerial responsibility the matter falls, notwithstanding the fact that his colleagues in the other chamber know and have been able to direct questions to the right person on previous occasions when the matter has been raised in the Parliament. If one asked the Attorney-General about a matter coming within the jurisdiction of the Treasurer, one might expect him to say: 'Cool down a little. Do not start a rush on insurance companies generally. This is a matter on which the Government will act. It is preparing legislation in accordance with the promises it made. The legislation will be introduced as soon as it had been drafted properly so that in 25 years time we can look back, as the Insurance Commissioner does on the Life Insurance Act, and say that it is a testimonial to the foresight and skill of those responsible for its preparation.' 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Will the Minister seek from his colleague, the Minister for Shipping and Transport, an early indication to be given to the Senate and to the people of Tasmania of the Government's reaction to the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade in relation to the Australian National Line's freight rates to and from Tasmania? In particular, will the Minister indicate his intentions in relation to the recommendations in the report for the reference of certain matters for further investigation by the Bureau of Transport Economics, including the suggestion in my reservation to the report that the question of the reintroduction of a shipping subsidy to Tasmania be investigated by that Bureau? 
Will the AttorneyGeneral give urgent consideration to taking appropriate steps to review, either alone or with his appropriate ministerial colleagues, the protection of Australian ownership and control of the valuable deposits of that vital power resource, uranium, located and to be located in Australia? Will he review the Companies (Uranium Mining Companies) Ordinance and either amend that Ordinance or introduce legislation under the corporations power to bring within provisions similar to those in the present Ordinance relating to the Nabarlek uranium deposit all uranium deposits in the Northern Territory and elsewhere in Australia? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. By way of brief preface I mention that last week the Minister for Shipping and Transport announced the reference of certain matters relating to transport in Tasmania to the Bureau of Transport Economics for investigation. Bearing this in mind, will the Minister endeavour to expedite a reply to the question asked recently by me seeking to have the subject of the reintroduction of a shipping subsidy to Tasmania investigated by that Bureau? 
We have just listened to an interesting speech from  Senator Devitt,  but I would like to go back a little further to cover some of the matters which, to an extent, were glossed over by him because to me, and 1 hope to other members of this chamber all of whom I have no doubt, are listening with great interest, the history of this project which comes to fruition with this legislation goes back for a very considerable period. The project was first mooted in the early 1900s. It culminated in 1912 with the first real investigation of the project for the Bell Bay rail link being undertaken by a then world authority on transport,  Mr Hunter,  who had come from the United Kingdom for that purpose. He reported favourably and suggested that it was essential for the collection of cargo and for the success of the new deep water port that the port should be directly connected with the Tasmanian Government Railways. But, alas, his words of wisdom were not heeded. 
Many years passed during which time some of those who had faith in the project continued to urge that it should be studied again by the Government. This continued until eventually in 1950 with the introduction of Comalco - the Australian Aluminium Production Commission as it was then known - at Bell Bay the project was put forward again and a select committee of the Parliament of Tasmania was set up to investigate it. But, alas, once again the fate that sometimes befalls reports of select committees of the Parliament befell the report of that particular select committee. lt, like  Mr Hunter,  was in favour of this project. It, too, set out all the reasons why it was a good and viable project, but it, too, was not listened to by the government of the day. During the 1950s we saw various spasmodic revivals of the idea by some of the faithful. Then, as  Senator Devitt  said, a very small number of the faithful were able to get the idea written into the Australian Labor Party Federal policy - not State policy - for the 1964 election campaign. The Australian Labor Party did not win that election so nothing was done about that. 
However, in 1966 something more important happened. At the Australian Labor Party conference that year to decide policy for the State Government, Labor then being in office in Tasmania, it was decided to recommend that the State Government approach the Federal Government for capital assistance to give effect to the recommendations of the parliamentary committee which inquired into the Bell Bay rail proposal in 1950. Unfortunately, apparently the enthusiasm of one or two of the dedicated members who had that resolution passed was not shared by the Premier of Tasmania, then  Mr Reece,  or his Government and nothing whatever was done about the project until the time Labor lost office in 1969. It is interesting to note that one of the promises on which the State Liberal Party, in coalition with the Centre Party, came into government in 1969 after a very long time in the wilderness was a promise- 
 I do not know whether  Senator Poke  is in a position to make any comment about that. If they are in the wilderness, he is even further out. Let us check the promise that was made in 1969 by the Tasmanian State Liberal Party. It said before the election that one of the first things it would do if elected to government would be to conduct a proper investigation into the feasibility and desirability of the Bell Bay rail link. This was done. The net result of that investigation eventually comes before the Parliament in the form- of this Bill, supported as it is now by all parties. It is very satisfying to those of us who have taken a particularly close interest in this matter for a long time to see this Bill before the Parliament. I well recall that on 15th October 1968 in a speech I made in the chamber in relation to the report of the Senate Select Committee on the Container Method of Handling Cargoes I said that there was a number of proposals which needed consideration. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
 Before the suspension of the sitting I had outlined a brief history of the matters leading to the introduction of this Bill. I had reached the stage of referring to the debate in the Senate on the report of the Senate Select Committee on the Container Method of Handling Cargoes. I believe that that report is well known to you,  Mr President.  It was an important report in many ways, not the least of which was the consideration of the effect of the introduction of the container cargo system on shipping to and from Tasmania. 1 had referred to a speech I had made on 15th October 1968 which is reported at page 1267 of the Senate Hansard of that date. In that speech I said:  1 therefore urge that consideration be given to retaining this well developed port as an integral part of the feeder service for containerisation and that as a necessary adjunct consideration be given to the construction of a rail link from Launceston to Bell Bay. 
The rail link from Launceston to Bell Bay is the subject matter of the Bill before us. One of the features which led to this legislation was the team work of a community of people who were prepared to dedicate themselves to the achievement of an objective which had eluded them for more than half a century. I mentioned earlier that the project had been mooted shortly after the turn of the century. At various times people had put forward the idea with varying degrees of enthusiasm or cynicism. Those who were not cynical but were dedicated to the idea included representatives of the Australian Railways Union. I pay a tribute to the work of the Australian Railways Union towards the achievement of this objective. For a long time the ARU worked very hard to prepare tor various Tasmanian governments a full and detailed proposal as to the viability of the project. It passed through various secretaries and committees but at all times the ARU and a union with fewer members but of considerable importance supported the project. 
 That is so.  1  had many discussions with  Mr Ralph  Taylor about this project over a considerable number of years. He is no longer in Tasmania as he holds a position in the office of the ARU in Sydney. No doubt he will have satisfaction similar to mine in seeing that this project is coming to fruition.  Mr Taylor  was one of a number of people within the railways service in Tasmania who worked very hard to achieve this objective.  Mr R.  C. Robertson, a railways employee and railways union official in Tasmania, is another person who worked hard for the same objective, although he had a slightly different interest from a union point of view. Perhaps more than any other individual  Mr Taylor  and  Mr Robertson  were prepared to stir and continually to keep alive the project which will come to fruition after the passing of this Bill. 
A large number of community organisations were involved including the Marine Board, the Northern Tasmanian Development League, the Tasmanian Chamber of Commerce, the Launceston City Council and a number of others which put forward the idea with varying enthusiasm and support at different times, but who never lost sight of the objective through the long fight towards success. I think the Senate could spend a few minutes thinking about the history of this achievement through a combined community effect. It is the realisation of a dream of a community for almost three-quarters of a century. I believe that the history will show to honour able senators from other States that we are dealing with something more than just another grant. It is the achievement of a dream which some of us have had for a long time. 
The Bill provides for part grant and part loan of moneys to Tasmania to enable a railway line to be constructed from just out of the port of Launceston to Bell Bay.  Senator Devitt  has cast some doubts as to the cost and viability of the project. I remind him that it has been investigated by almost every conceivable type of committee, each of which has agreed that it is a viable project. But there is always somebody who will be a knocker and will be prepared to say: 'Oh no, it will not work. The cost is going up. Or something else will go up.' Yet every time an expert committee - a parliamentary committee or any other type of committee - has looked at the idea it has said that it is viable, it is essential, and it should be done. 
I deplore the introduction into this debate of the suggestion that the idea should be reconsidered or that it will not work, for some reason, which is really a furphy, put forward by those who do not have the same interest as the people who have always had faith in the idea and have worked for it. A related point, and  Senator Devitt  adverted to it, is the general question of Tasmania's internal transport system. Many years of neglect have left the railway system in Tasmania in a condition which was described to the Senate Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade, when inquiring into Tasmanian shipping freights, by  Mr Webb,  the Commissioner of the Tasmanian Transport Commission.  Mr Webb  said: 
The railways are in a poor condition. I have explained this to the Government. I have explained it to the Commonwealth Grants Commission and it has been explained in the submission which the State has made to the Commonwealth for financial assistance for the Bell Bay railway which sets out the position of the State railways system and this submission for assistance includes upgrading 100 miles of railway as well as the construction of the short section to Bell Bay. There is no question that the railways are in a very poor condition. They need considerable expenditure on track, first of all, to put the track right; on modern equipment and on heavier and more powerful locomotives. I have looked at this matter very closely since I took up the position of Commissioner and it was put to me, not by the Government but by business quarters, that the railways in Tasmania should be closed. My advice to the Government is that despite the expenditure which is necessary and the condition of the railways it is essential for the long term development of the State and to maintain freight rates at the lowest possible level that the main line railways be maintained and upgraded. This task will have to be attempted. 
That is an important aspect of what I wish to say here tonight. Not only is it the view of all those who have considered the Bell Bay rail link that it should be built; it is also the view of all those who have considered the railways in Tasmania that those railways, firstly, are in need of upgrading because of the neglect of many years, and secondly, that they are an integral part and an economic part of the transport system of Tasmania which is basic to the development of that State. 
The Senate Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade, which heard the evidence from  Mr Webb,  made recommendations. Its recommendations included the following, which I quote from page 62 of its report: 
We recommend that in the light of any approach made by the Tasmanian Government the Commonwealth Government give consideration lo the granting of some capital assistance under section 96 of the Constitution for the upgrading of the Tasmanian mainline railways. 
Recently a report was produced by P. G. Pak-Poy and Associates following a study on the transport of goods for Tasmania. The following is stated at page 43 of the principal report, which is report No. 1: 
Bell Bay has the natural resources to accommodate the facilities required. The bulk movement  through  Bell Bay shows a higher growth rate than the other ports and it would appear that under natural growth circumstances Bell Bay would tend to become the principal port for Tasmania. A policy decision to centralise at Bell Bay would reinforce this process, and would increase the difference between the present value of the transport costs by reducing the computed land transport cost component for the central port system. 
There are many other parts of the report to which reference could be made by anyone concerned to see in what way the Bill with which we are dealing tonight plays an integral part in the development of Tasmania's transport system which is so essential to it. 

 Senator Wilkinson, who was a member of the Senate Standing Committee which dealt with shipping freights to Tasmania, will well remember that a lot of evidence was devoted to this particular question. It is interesting to note that every committee involved, every investigation into transport in Tasmania, has come out with the same answers. The answers included, firstly, the statement that the rail link is essential and, secondly, that the retention of and the upgrading of the rail transport system in Tasmania is essential, particularly bearing in mind the fact that Tasmania, as an island, is dependent upon shipping and that shipping in these days can best be organised upon a basis whereby in effect you have a shuttle service across the water division between what I like to refer as the north island of the Commonwealth of Australia and the south island of the Commonwealth of Australia. That shipping Service, conducted with the greatest possible frequency ' and leading to the railheads in northern Tasmania, can provide what in other places is provided by a road system or a bridge. It is essential to the continued viability of the economy of Tasmania. 
In my view and in the view of everybody who has investigated this matter, the Bill with which we are dealing will play an integral part in the development of Tasmania's transport system. But it cannot be left there. This is the point I wanted to make because I do not want to be taken as an Oliver Twist. I do not think anybody has ever suggested thai Tasmania has made its one and only request for Commonwealth assistance in relation to its transport system. As  Senator Devitt  pointed out, Tasmania, even with the passing of this Bill, has received for its railway system but a small percentage of the assistance that the States of Australia have already received. I do not think it would be unreasonable in any way for Tasmania to expect the sympathetic attention of the Commonwealth Government to a further request, in due course, for assistance in the essential upgrading of that internal railway system. That system is already in existence but it was described in somewhat horrific terms by  Mr Webb  to the Senate Standing Committee which looked into Tasmanian freight rates. 
I am delighted to be able to speak on the occasion of what I trust is the passing of this legislation. I trust that in passing this Bill neither the Government nor the Parliament will sit back and say. 'We have done all that is necessary to pacify the island State'. It is not a matter of pacifying the island State of Tasmania; it is a matter of retaining viability in the economy of all the integral parts of Australia. One of the essential aspects of retaining viability in the economy of Tasmania is that it have a transport system which overcomes its natural disability created by that stretch of water known as Bass Strait. To obtain that viability it will be necessary, as has been said by  Mr Webb  and others, to upgrade the internal system and to promote the shipping services in a way which will provide the utmost advantage and overcome to the greatest possible extent the disability which Tasmania faces. 
The Senate Standing Committee which looked into Tasmania's freight rates made a number of recommendations. Among them was the suggestion that the Bureau of Transport Economics should investigate certain aspects of Tasmania's transport problems. In a reservation to the Committee's report I recommended that the question related to the introduction of some scheme of subsidy or freight cost equalisation be referred to the Bureau of Transport Economics for consideration at the same time that it carries out the recommended quantitative assessment of Tasmania's transport disabilities relative to the other States. That was the Committee's second recommendation. I understand from an announcement made recently by the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  that that is being done. It would appear to me that there would be no conceivable disadvantage but every advantage to Tasmania if the question of a subsidy were investigated by the Bureau at the same time. I made the further recommendation, in my reservation to the Standing Committee's report, that the Bureau's report upon both matters be published for the consideration of all interested persons so that they could then determine what action should be taken on a government level. 
I am not suggesting that Tasmania is entitled to the shipping subsidy but I am suggesting that it is entitled to the services of the Bureau of Transport Economics to determine the real facts relating to this disability and what are the real facts relating to the effects which a subsidy provided in relation to that disability - I think all persons accept that a disability exists - would have. Would it be advantageous or would it be disadvantageous, as suggested by some of the people who gave evidence to the Standing Committee? 
These are matters which could properly be investigated by experts. I trust that the Minister for Shipping and Transport will give favourable consideration to this matter at the earliest possible date so that no time is lost in coinciding the 2 aspects of the inquiry in order that the Parliament eventually may decide, upon the advice of experts, whether a subsidy should be reintroduced. 
I remind honourable senators that a subsidy on freights to and from Tasmania existed for many years. It was cut out with the introduction of the Australian National Line. It may be that its re-introduction is justified; it may be that it is not justified. I do not know. Unfortunately the Standing Committee did not get enough evidence to justify it, in my view, making a decision one way or another. It simply said that it was not satisfied that it was justified. I expressed my extreme disappointment that in my opinion we did not receive enough evidence to enable us to reach a decision. 
 1 had some reservations,  Senator Wilkinson.  I was disappointed that a considered case had not been put forward in the detail that I had hoped for. It may very well be that the investigation by the Bureau will show that there is not really a case for a subsidy and that on the balance it would be better not to reintroduce a subsidy. But I do not think any harm could be done by giving consideration to this matter. In supporting the passage of this legislation, I once again pay tribute to those people who for nearly three-quarters of a century have set their sights on this objective and who now see it achieved. I look forward to further attention being given to overcoming some of the other problems in Tasmania's transport system. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. By way of brief preface I refer to my reservation to Chapter 9 of the report by the Senate Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade on the Australian National Line shipping services to and from Tasmania, and also to my earlier question to the Minister. I now ask the Minister: Will he draw the attention of his colleague to and urge his colleague's close consideration of a motion passed at a meeting attended by approximately 280 persons, representing a cross-section of business, industry and local and State government, and held at George Town in Tasmania last night? The motion reads: 
That this meeting believes that it is essential that the Commonwealth Government should refer to the Bureau of Transport Economics for consideration- 
 Mr President,  mayI complete the question whichI was asking earlier of the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. It will not be in any way a reference to a newspaper report. I refer to a statement of fact to render intelligible the question which I wished to ask and it is authenticated by me. I again read the motion which I was in the process of reading. The motion reads: 
That this meeting believes that it is essential that the Commonwealth Government should refer to the Bureau of Transport Economics for consideration, assessment and recommendation- 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport ascertain whether one of the 2 Australian National Line ships 'Lake Boga' and 'Lake Macquarie' which are at present being laid up due to lack of trade can, if an economical conversion is possible, be made available to make scheduled voyages to northern Tasmania to transport livestock from Tasmania to the Victorian markets? 
 I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport a question. By way of brief preface, I refer to chapter 9 of the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade on the Australian National Line shipping services to and from Tasmania, and I refer also to my questions to the Minister earlier this session. I now ask: Will the Minister draw to the attention of his colleague and urge his close consideration of a motion passed at a meeting attended by approximately 280 persons, representing a cross-section of business, industry and local and State governments held at George Town in Tasmania last night? The motion passed at that meeting, at which I was present and of which I have knowledge, read as follows: 
That this meeting believes that it is essential that the Commonwealth Government should refer to the Bureau of Transport Economics for consideration, assessment and recommendation the question of the advantages and disadvantages of the introduction of a scheme of subsidy by freight cost equalisation for shipping to and from Tasmania at the same time that it carries out its already announced quantitative assessment of Tasmania's transport disabilities relative to the other States. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
What has been the role and function of the Royal Australian Navy Band duringthe past 6 months. 
At what functions or on what public occasions has the Royal Australian Navy Band performed during the past 6 months and in each case: 
how many members of the Band performed 
what was the location of the performance 
what was the date of the performance 
what was the cost of transporting the Band  to  attend the performance. 
What engagements for public performances has the Band accepted for the next 6 months. 
-I present the report of Estimates Committee B, together with the minutes of the proceedings. Also I table the Hansard report of the evidence taken.In doing soI wish to draw to the attention of the Senate the following paragraph in the report of the Committee: 
In addition, the Committee draws the attention of the Senate to the following: 
There appeared to the Committee to be a lack of understanding by officers of the Broadcasting Control Board and the Australian Broadcasting Commission of the accountability to Parliament of Statutory Corporations. The Committee is of the opinion that whilst it may be argued that these bodies are not accountable through the responsible 
Minister of State to Parliament for day to day operations, Statutory Corporations may be called to account by Parliament itself at any time  and  that there are no areas of expenditure of public funds where these corporations have a discretion to withhold details or explanations from Parliament or its Committees unless the Parliament has expressly provided otherwise. 
The Committee's examination of the proposed expenditure by the Australian Broadcasting Commission was hampered by a lack of officers with sufficient authority and information to reply adequately to questions asked by Senators. 
Whilst recognising that the Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts is a newly established Department and obviously some reasonable lime is necessary to obtain full efficiency, the Committee, in its examination of the Estimates of the Department, found that there was a considerable degree of confusion, lack of information and slow progress in reaching establishment in certain areas, particularly the section dealing with the environment. 
I move: 
That the report be primed. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Mulvihill)  adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. As gifts of money in respect of school building appeals are deductible for income tax purposes, will the Treasurer consider extending that benefit in respect of gifts of books to school libraries and gifts of teaching aid equipment? If the Treasurer decides against such an extension can he be requested to inform the Senate as to the  reasons for that decision? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONAs I have indicated on other occasions when items related to budgetary considerations have been mentioned, this matter would have to be examined by the Treasurer. No doubt when he examines it he will respond to the question and in his response, which will come through the Senate, he will reflect upon the reasons why the decision has been made. 
My question is directed  to the Minister for Health. I ask: Will he cause an investigation to be made as to whether the properties of fresh apple juice are equally beneficial to children as is the milk paid for by the Commonwealth and supplied free of charge to school children? If such apple juice is comparable, will the Minister investigate whether it is possible to supply it during the warmer periods of the year, as the milk supply cannot always be kept chilled and becomes unpalatable. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe honourable senator asked me whether I would have an investigation. The word investigation' seems to me to be dangerous because in response to a question some time ago I said I would inquire about something and I was horrified to read in one newspaper next day that the Minister for Health was going to have an inquiry - an expression which has an altogether different connotation. If 'investigation' is understood to mean that I shall seek some information I say that I shall have an investigation. I hope that those words will not be distorted. Apple juice is competing with milk, as is orange juice and pineapple juice. 
It is alarming to hear some of the comments which have been made . by honourable senators opposite this evening in relation to the operation of the Estimates Committee system. T believe this system has done more to involve this chamber in a full and proper consideration of the Estimates than anything that existed before the introduction of this system. There may be some deficiencies in the operation of the system. There may be improvements which could be made but I hope that the consideration of the future of the Estimates Committees will be on the constructive basis of how we can improve them, not how we can destroy them or how we can cut off our noses to spite our faces. We heard some remarks from  Senator Cavanagh,  who I am glad to see is returning to the chamber. He has been out for only a moment and I mention it in no other way than to say that I am glad he has returned because I want to make a remark about what he has said. 
 Thank you. What  Senator Cavanagh  said about the happenings on the first day of meeting of the first Estimates Committees is really dredging to find some reason for complaining about them. He made some remarks about his colleague from South Australia,  Senator Davidson,  which I regard as unfair and which I think should be placed in their proper perspective. On that day, not only  Senator Davidson  as  chairman  of one of those Committees but also other honourable senators as chairmen of other Committees adopted the same procedure. It was based on a belief and on advice that, during the time when the Committees met to elect their chairmen and to carry out any other formal business of a procedural nature which they had to carry out, they should do so as committees of individuals and not as committees carrying out an inquiry into the Estimates in which any member of the Senate could participate. It may be that that procedure should not have been adopted but to suggest either incompetence or mala fides or any other of the impressions which one could get from the remarks which  Senator Cavanagh  made about  Senator Davidson  or any of the other honourable senators who were chairmen of Committees on those days, is not only unfortunate but also does not do  Senator Cavanagh  the credit which I would hope his arguments do to the debates which take place in this chamber. I do not think there is any point in pursuing that matter any further. Let us just leave the record straight. It was not only  Senator Davidson;  it was not any particular  chairman.  lt was a matter of following what was believed to be appropriate procedure during the teething stages in the development of the Estimates Committee system. Nobody was cut out of participating in the consideration of the Estimates. 
Proceeding from that matter we have asother criticism which was made by  Senator Cavanagh.  It was an extravagant criticism and a demonstrably unreal criticism. He said in relation to the supply of information during the consideration of the Estimates by the Committees that there were more promises than information. A quick look at the unanimous reports of  3  Committees which I have in front of me - I do not have the other  2  - will reveal the shallowness and hollowness of that criticism. The unanimous report of Estimates Committee D says: 
In accordance with undertakings given by the Minister during the hearings, further information was supplied to the Committee in reply to questions raised during the proceedings. Copies of the documents containing this information are included as an Appendix to this Report. 
The pages are not numbered so I am not able to say exactly how many there are but I estimate that there would be something like  50  or  60  pages. Estimates Committee C in its report said: 
Subsequent to the hearing of evidence and in accordance with undertakings given by the Minister for Works during the hearings, additional information was forwarded to the Committee in reply to certain questions asked during the proceedings. Copies of these replies are attached as an Appendix to the Report. 
There are perhaps  30  pages of replies. Estimates Committee B in its report said: 
. the Committee records its appreciation of the explanations provided . . . particularly in relation to the preparation and speedy supply of detailed information sought by, Senators. 
They were unaminous reports from the Committees. It is my belief that the Senate can be grateful not only to the Ministers concerned but also to the departments for one thing that they have tried to do. However inadequate some departments may have been, however inadequate any of the Ministers may have been, however inadequate anybody may think any of the answers of performance may have been - and that would be a matter of opinion although my opinion is that the performance by and large was most adequate - the one thing that is beyond doubt is that  Senator Cavanagh's  point has no substance. By far the greater part of the information sought during the hearings of the Estimates Committees, has been supplied speedily and has involved a great deal of effort and work by the departments to ensure that it was made available speedily. 
The next point that  Senator Cavanagh  made was that there was no opportunity to obtain information in cases where the answers were fobbed off. That was the impression that he gave. He implied that a Minister or departmental officer could say. 'We will supply the information to you', and that that would be the end of the matter; the information would never be made available.  Mr reply  to that is twofold. Firstly, most of the information, if not all of it, has already been supplied. Secondly, this debate provides honourable sena'.ors with an opportunity to obtain any information which they require and which has not been supplied, in exactly the same manner in which they could have obtained it prior to the introduction of the Estimates Committee system. 
The situation which 1 found most unsatisfactory was the situation in which a senator wished to ask a question or raise a matter and, instead of having an opportunity to ask the officer concerned, get a reply from him and perhaps pursue it with him, the senator had to ask the Minister who got a hurriedly scribbled note from the officer advising him. The matter may well have been one about which the officer knew nothing. One can understand that a Minister representing 4 other Ministers could not possibly have at his disposal all information about all matters. The hurried note usually lacked real substance and real information. The net result was that we had what I believe was a most unsatisfactory system of consideration of the Estimates. 
The introduction of the Estimates Com- "mittee system has given honourable senators an opportunity to really participate. There may be shortcomings and difficulties, but let us try to overcome them. tet us not just criticise the system. It can develop and, I believe, play an important part in the administration of this country. Every senator has an opportunity to participate in a meaningful way, if there are only 2 committees sitting, in the deliberations of at least one of them. The way in which consideration of the Estimates was conducted in the past was completely lacking, in my view, in any reality. It was not possible to obtain from the Minister any real answer which would satisfy a senator with a real, knowledge of the subject, having done his homework and being concerned about the matter into which he wished to inquire. This is not a criticism of the Minister but of the system which existed prior to the introduction of the present system. If honourable senators will apply themselves to the system, if they will join with it and help it grow, the system can, I believe, serve a most useful purpose not only for this chamber but also for this country. I hope that I do not hear people trying to knock it rather than trying to help it grow. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament asembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
Parents have the right to choose their children's education and as taxpayers they are entitled to ask that public funds to which their taxes have contributed should be shared justly and equitably for the education of all children. 
The Commonwealth Parliament has accepted the principle of an Independent School System in Australia and has also accepted the principle that those schools should be assisted from public funds. 
The very existence of a large number of independent schools is now threatened due to the changes in economic circumstances and due to the increased demands on the resources of these schools. 
The reduction of the number of independent schools in Australia will effectively deprive many taxpaying parents of their right to choose any alternative type of education for their children. 
The closure of  a  number of independent schools will result in serious overcrowding in and further deterioration in the standard of Government schools. 
It is in the interest of all school pupils whether in Government or independent schools that the Independent School System should survive and function efficiently and effectively. 
The absence of any increase in capitation grants by the Commonwealth since 1969, notwithstanding the great increase in costs since then, has created serious problems for independent schools. 
Your petitioners request that your honourable House make legal provision for - 
An emergency increase in capitation grants for independent schools to enable them to survive without increasing fees beyond the capacity of parents to pay. 
A just and equitable means of increased support for all schools both Government and independent to the intent that such support should be integrated into the economic and financial planning of Australia and that the question of proper support of both independent and Government schools should cease to be  a  matter of political debate and expediency. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. During the debate on the National Health Bill 1970 I suggested and requested that a White Paper be prepared relating to all the considerations governing the question of medical benefits in relation to the services of opthalmologists and optometrists, and .he prescribing and supply of spectacles. Will the Minister reconsider this request which was made prior to his appointment and let the Senate know whether he is prepared to arrange for such a White Paper to be published so that further and full consideration can be given to this important and apparently vexed question? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONPerhaps a White Paper would have far more implications than I would wish to give to the point raised. But I certainly shall give consideration to the points which were dealt with in the debate on the National Health Bill 1970. I would be prepared to put down a normal ministerial statement covering all the implications of that side of medicine and the historical background to what the Government has done about it. 
 As the  Chairman  of Senate Estimates Committee B whose report has been mentioned during this debate, I wish to make several points in generally indicating that I, too, support the motion. One of the points about which there would appear to be some confusion is the suggestion that the Committee accused the Australian Broadcasting Commission of refusing to supply information. I make it quite clear that the Committee's report did not make that accusation. What it said was: 
There appeared to the Committee to be a lack of understanding by officers of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board and the Austraiian Broadcasting Commission of  the  accountability to Parliament of statutory corporations. 
The Committee's report then goes on to express its view. There is no suggestion that there was ever a refusal, as such, to supply information. But, as has been apparent from the passages which have been read from the Hansard report of the Commitee's proceedings today, there was a certain amount of discussion on this question. As yet, the attitude of the Australian Broadcasting Commission on whether in the final analysis it will supply the information requested is not known. 
A further point on which I wish to comment is the suggestion that the AttorneyGeneral,  Senator Greenwood,  had adopted an attitude which was perhaps different from the attitude expressed today by honourable senators who have spoken and. perhaps, even different from the attitude which he expressed today. I draw the attention of honourable senators to the Hansard transcript of the proceedings at page 389, where  Senator Greenwood  is reported as saying: 
I too, appreciate the point you make, but I think that fundamental to an appreciation of its significance must be the recognition that, as distinct from other departments, the area of the Postmaster-General's Department with regard to the Broadcasting Control Board, and as we will come to it, the Australian Broadcasting Commission, is that these bodies are significantly independent of the ministerial control. In short, there is a lump sum given to the Broadcasting Control Board because in so many areas, and indeed over the vast range of what it does, it is completely independent by Act of Parliament from any control by the Minister or by the Parliament while it is carrying out its functions. 

 Senator Byrne said: 
Not behind a parliamentary screen. 

 Senator Greenwood continued:  1 accept full well if the Parliament has not abandoned what ought to be one of its roles, it will exercise a scrutiny, and it should exercise that scrutiny of course by the language with which it vests authority in independent bodies. And if, in times past, the Parliament has vested authority in independent bodies in such a way that it cannot scrutinise them, then it is a matter I think of concern to the current Parliament. 
I do not regard that as a statement which says what some honourable senators speaking today have indicated the AttorneyGeneral said during the proceedings of the Commit ee. I think it should be added to the other questions of what he said to see the full context of the way the matter was approached both by the Attorney-General and by the Commi'tee in its consideration of these estimates. Having drawn attention to those matters, 1 support in general terms the other references which have been made by honourable senators in speaking to this motion. 
I wish to join in the debate on this motion. Lest there be any confusion, I wish to make it quite clear at this stage that unfortunately, asI feel that it is necessary, I propose to support the motion. The general problem of pollution and the general recommendation in regard to it are not matters to be treated lightly. The problem has been investigated carefully, and I believe fully, by 2 Senate select committees composed of responsible members with expert assistance. They obtained and collated a body of evidence never before available in Australia as to the extent and the nature of the problems which confront us in the preservation and protection of our environment. 
That body of evidence is, to anybody who wishes to read it - this would apply even if he read only the summaries which arc contained in the reports of the committees - frightening, disturbing and of any other description which one might like to give to it and which can create in one a sense of urgency and alarm. I believe that unfortunately this sense of urgency and alarm has been absent so far from the activities of the Government of whichI am a supporter. I believe that it is most unfortunate for any supporter to have to criticise the Government in the way which I feel it necessary. But there has been ample opportunity, notwithstanding anything which has been said by the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood),  as Minister representing the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson),  for this Government despite any constitutional problems which may exist to have taken action and to have shown an awareness of the problem and a keenness to take steps to overcome the problem. 
So far, the steps taken are that last year during the election campaign it was announced by the then Prime Minister that steps would be taken in relation to the environment. That announcement was made following a report presented by the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution and dared 10th June 1970- that is 18 months ago - and a report of the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution presented earlier in the year. As a result of that promise action was taken. Eventually, a Ministry was created to deal with this matter. Now. some 14 months after the announcement, all that can be said by the officer who represented the Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts before Estimates Committee B is that'one and a bit' officers have been appointed. I find the lack of seriousness and lack of gravity with which the problem is approached to be appalling. 
If this was a war in the normal sense. I find it hard to believe that 14 months after the declaration of war we would have 'one and a bit' officers appointed to look after it. I regard the war in relation to the preservation of the environment as being of significance comparable with that of a war in relation to the preservation of a society from external attack. What really is the difference between the insidious and cumulative effect of pollution and the rather more dramatic effect of external attack? Both can destroy a society. It is said that 'one and a bit' officers are all it has been possible to appoint to date. Unfortunately, there is no evidence of a serious approach being taken to what I regard as a very serious problem. I endorse  Senator Laucke's  remarks. I accept completely the general remarks which he made and I wish to add to them. 
I wish to add that there is no evidence of Commonwealth action on a real basis. It is suggested that there is no opportunity for Commonwealth action because the Constitution does not provide the power which would be necessary.In answer to that argument, I point out that one of the recommendations of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution was that there should be, firstly, a quantitative assessment of the past, present and future pollution situation in Australia and, secondly, a continuing assessment of water resources. There is no reason at all for saying that the Commonwealth has not the power. That is something which can happen. At the moment, apparently, it is happening through the Australian Water Resources Council, but without any urgency and without any relationship between the twin factors which are essential in relation to this problem, namely, quality and quantity. 
The second aspect in relation to which the Commonwealth could take action, notwithstanding any limitations that there may be in relation to its constitutional power, is the techniques for abatement and control. Where are the research, the development and the techniques for overcoming these problems being developed by the Commonwealth as a result of the expenditure of Commonwealth funds, in the way in which this is being done in other countries to find out what is the real problem and how it can best be overcome? Can the States, divided and singly, be expected to attack this major problem and to devote the maximum of the nation's resources to the earliest possible solution of its problems? I believe not. I believe that it is a responsibility of the Commonwealth Government to undertake the sort of programme which is being undertaken by the governments of other countries which are similarly attacked by this problem. But there is little evidence so far that any approach has been made to real testing and researching in an endeavour to overcome the problem. 
I had the privilege of visiting in Japan the research station which is run by the Tokyo and Japanese governments to try to find out how they can best overcome the various serious problems in regard to pollution which they have. They regard their problems as serious. But I wonder how many Australians have thought of the fact that, according to the evidence given to the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution of which I was a member, Sydney Harbour is no longer capable of sustaining marine life in its lower levels and that the crucial level is rising quickly from the bottom to the top, so that unless something is done soon Sydney Harbour is unlikely to be able to sustain any normal marine life. 1 wonder how many people have thought of the situation in my home area of Launceston and the Tamar River. I wonder how many people sail down that river and see the changes that have taken place in the past few years, how quickly this problem is creeping up on all of us and how little action is being taken by the people who should be concerned but who apparently are nol concerned about this problem. 
Let me go on to deal with the further things that the Commonwealth could do and is not doing. The determination of criteria is something which could be done. It could be put forward. If the States will not accept it, they will not accept it, and they will be shown up for what they are if they will not. But it is something which could be done and to my mind there is no excuse for not doing it. Other matters which could be considered are the general research question, the overall research question and the education programme. Both of the Committees decided that one of the basic problems with which we are concerned is how to educate the people to the existence and the reality of the problem; how to educate them to overcome it. What is being done about the development of an education programme? What money is being expended by the U members of this division of the Department in relation to the development of an education programme and the expounding of that education programme? What is being done in relation to tax measures to overcome the problem? Surely to goodness some real consideration could be given as to how best the major taxing authority could adjust its taxing measures to encourage industry, to help industry to provide a protection from the pollutant effects which very often are a necessary result of industry unless uneconomic steps are taken to preserve the ecology of the area in which that industry is set up. 
These are matters which 1 believe could well be given consideration by a serious department. So far, I find, we are told that there has been a conference, that we have started, that something has happened. If the States are so small minded that they are prepared to fight to the death for the protection of their own rights to control this problem and are not prepared to engage in a co-operative effort to overcome a national problem, I believe that if proper action were taken by the Commonwealth, the States would stand condemned, if in fact that is their attitude; and I find it hard to believe that it is. I cannot believe that anyone realising the extent and the nature of this problem would be prepared to stand by and say. 'The preservation of my own rights stands above the preservation of the rights of those who are to follow us in this country'. That is why I cannot believe that any States would be sufficiently small minded to stand out from a suggestion which was made not in a spirit of taking away from the States their rights but in a spirit of what is the only solution which is available to this country to a problem which is a national problem, if we wish to preserve for those who are to follow us anything like the beauty, the majesty and the integrity of the environment which we inherited. 
There are 2 aspects of the remarks made by the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  on which I wish to comment. The first is the suggestion that Estimates Committee B was not justified in making the report which it made because it did not have sufficient information. To that comment I reply that, if it did not have sufficient information, that was not the fault of the Committee, the criticism of which around this chamber was that it had been too probing and too long in its examination of these matters. The criticism which flowed quite freely in this chamber, or at least through the corridors outside the chamber, was to that effect. The Committee sought information, and if the information was not forthcoming it was not the fault of the Committee. I assert on behalf of the whole Committee - not any party represented within the Committee, but on behalf of the whole Committee - that it acted bona fide on the basis of the information which it was able to elicit in the course of its examination of the estimates. 
The further point thatI wish to make is this: Accepting as I do the information given by the Attorney-General - for whose information, veracity and opinions I have the greatest of respect - as to the workings of the Public Service in relation to the appointment of officers to the Environment Division of the Department, I can say only that this has demonstrated more vividly than anything else I can imagine in quite some time the need for the Senate to forgo the number of references to Committees which were passed today and to look urgently at the workings of the Public Service. If it takes so long to get under way and past the one-and-a-bit stage, or two subject to one appeal stage, of appointments to what is regarded by most members in this place andI think, the community generally as something urgent, there must be something seriously wrong which should be looked at. That is the second comment whichI wish to make. I do hope the Minister will give consideration to the effect of what he has told us and perhaps the Committee itself and honourable senators will give some consideration to those factors. 
 Mr Temporary Chairman,  the motion- 
Perhaps we will but I would like to say what 1 wish to say about the motion, lt states: 
That the Committee is of the opinion that the Government should prepare urgently and implement a national fuel and power policy. 
I can well understand and sympathise with the remarks made by  Senator McManus  about the lack of notice and the complete surprise with which honourable senators are called upon to debate this matter. 1 believe that this is a serious matter, a matter of great moment to this country and a matter which should not be debated without notice, without prior warning and without an opportunity of considering it by having a proper and full debate. What on earth does the motion mean? The Government is to prepare urgently and implement a national fuel and power policy. That is an ambiguity which I find hard to understand. There are significant and important difficulties in this matter which relate to uranium, coal, oil, gas and one might even say timber and various sorts of fuel and power. Does this mean fuel for domestic use or does it mean fuel for export? Does it relate to Australia's negotiating position and the policy it should adopt in relation to the export of our fuel and power resources or does it mean exploitation for domestic purposes? Presumably, if  Senator Murphy  means that the motion is comprehensive then it covers both purposes. 
Let us consider uranium for which there is a very limited market. It is a market of limited duration on which the price and demand are likely to increase temporarily for perhaps a period of from 15 to 20 years. Depending upon which projection one accepts, the demand might decrease almost entirely. It could be a market in which control is in the hands of a very few multinational or supra-national companies and in which the consumers are limited in number and subjected to incredible degrees of control by a few people. Can we say that the policy there is to be the same policy as that to be adopted in relation to coal? Can we say in relation to oil and gas which, basically at the moment, have an unlimited future on the consumer market, that we should adopt the same policy that we adopt in relation to uranium? These are questions which should be considered. I hope and trust and believe that they are being considered. But to mouth some words of a genera] and imprecise nature will do nothing either to the credit of this chamber or to the credit of the party which moved the motion. 
I ask for leave to make a statement relating to the activities of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. 
 I draw the attention of the Committee to clause 13 of the Dried Vine Fruits Levy Collection Bill which contains provisions similar to those about which I spoke earlier this afternoon requiring, by notice in writing, the furnishing of a return within the time specified in the notice. The comments I made earlier apply also to this provision. I take it no further than that at this stage. 
 I give notice that if this matter is not dealt with 1 shall introduce a Bill next year to amend this particular legislation and any similar legislation. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment: report adopted. 
I wish very briefly to refer to clauses 23 and 26. Clause 26 provides for access to premises. It is with considerable pleasure that I note that the Bill as drafted provides for the obtaining of a warrant prior to entry by an authorised person, pursuant to that power. Honourable senators on both sides of the chamber have directed their attention to similar provisions in the past and as a result amendments have been effected. In respect of this Bill I simply say that the provision is there in clause 26. I now direct attention to clause 23, which provides: 
The Minister or an authorised person may, by notice in writing, require a person to furnish to him, within the time specified in the notice, such return or information in relation to matters relevant to the operation of this Act as is specified in the notice, including a return or information verified hy statutory declaration. 
There is nothing to prevent an arbitrary, unreal and unfair action being taken under that provision. I am not suggesting that as anything other than a possibility, but while it remains a possibility I believe that it should be covered by an amendment. Notice in writing should be defined as to the form it is to take and how it is to be served. The time specified in the notice should be at least a reasonable time. If those requirements were met it would seem to me that the persons subjected to this provision would be given adequate protection from either arbitrary action by mistake or arbitrary action by intent. 
It is a form of protection which would be reasonable in all the circumstances. While it may not be possible for amendments in the form I have suggested to be made today - 1 would not want the benefits of the scheme to be delayed until next year when the House of Representatives resumes - I would hope that an undertaking could be given for the matter to be brought back into the Senate by one means or another for further debate at a later stage, or that an undertaking could be given to review this provision, thus avoiding a delay in the passage of this legislation but ensuring that an opportunity will be given one way or another for this matter to be adjusted. I do not think I am alone in feeling that adequate protection such as 1 have detailed should be provided for in this and similar legislation. 
1 am a little disappointed that it is not possible, by one means or another, to get something in the nature of an undertaking that a further opportunity will be given by one means or another to consider the amendments I have suggested and which have been supported by  Senator Durack  and, as ( understand it,  Senator Cavanagh.  The situation may very well be precisely as the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  says. But 1 do not think that he has said any more than that perhaps the legislation does not do as much harm as it might do in other circumstances. To me it is bad to have bad legislation. lt does not properly provide for the rights of the individual, lt does not allow him reasonable time nor does he know in what form a notice in writing is to be served. I think the legislation is bad and should not continue in that form. As I said before, I would be extremely reluctant to force the situation of moving an amendment to hold up this legislation but I am not at all happy that we find repeatedly coming before this chamber legislation in relation to which notice has been given of proposed amendments, quite a long time before and which cannot be dealt with properly because the House of Representatives has adjourned and the scheme, whatever it may be, will be held up. Per haps this is a matter which should be considered again at some other stage. I ask again whether the Minister, by one means or another, will consider having this matter reconsidered in the next sitting of the Parliament. 
1 ask the Minister for Health: ls it a fact that action has been taken to arrange a seminar to discuss a recommendation made by the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse concerning reporting in the news media in relation to drugs? If such a seminar has been arranged, will the Minister inform the Senate when the seminar will be held, whether it will be open to the public and whether adequate steps will be taken to publicise it? 
Yesterday I issued a Press statement which 1 hope will be given significant publicity. As mentioned by  Senator Rae,  my Department has arranged a seminar directed towards responsible reporting by the mass media on the effects and use of drugs. The seminar is to be held in Canberra next Saturday and Sunday, 26th and 27th February. About 60 journalists, academics and educationists from all States will attend the seminar. The journalists will represent major metropolitan newspapers and radio and television networks. The seminar is being held as part of the Government's national drug education campaign. I expect - indeed, I hope - that nearer to the date of the seminar, and certainly following it, extensive newspaper publicity will be given to it and that the views expressed in the seminar will be given wide publicity by the mass media. I could read to the Senate the names of all those who will participate in the seminar, but I do not think I need to do that. I issued a Press statement yesterday, copies of which will be circulated to all honourable senators and members of the House of Representatives. I hope that it will be given the widest possible publicity because of what we are trying to achieve in this field. 
I found it interesting to hear  Senator Mulvihill  say on behalf of his Party, in response to what  Senator Carrick  had said, that apparently it is all right to gaol people without trial during time of war but during any other time draft registers should not be gaoled for breaches of the law. 
If that is not what he said, perhaps it would be interesting for us to know just what is the explanation of the Australian Labor Party's past behaviour and its present attitudes. There has been no explanation of the complete apparent hypocrisy in the explanation given to us by  Senator Carrick.  The crocodile tears flow in this chamber on various, occasions when we hear about how terrible it is for anything to be done against any of the friends of the Labor Party. We have just heard that, according to  Senator Mulvihill,  it is perfectly justifiable to gaol small shop- keepers, to gaol people without trial, to close down newspapers or whatever may be the case. That is all right if you are in power, apparently, but not if you are in Opposition. This appears to be the only distinction that could be drawn by anyone listening to any of the remarks that have been made. I continue to deal for a moment with some of the actions of the Police Force in this case which gave rise to this debate. I have not yet discovered clearly from the honourable senators on the other side of the chamber the real nature of the complaint they make. It seems to vary. 
If it is accepted that the police have a duty to do and if it is accepted that in the course of performing their duty they have to try to apprehend the person in respect of whom a warrant has been issued, it must be accepted, I presume, that to carry out their duty it may be necessary to enter premises and it may be necessary to obtain a search warrant to enter premises. 
Let us come to that in a moment. Let us just take it step by step and see what is the real nature of the complaint which is made in this case and whether it is not just a lot of political humbug. If it is accepted, as I have said, that the police have a duty to perform, if it is accepted that they are expected to enforce the law, the only distinguishing factor which appears here is one of 2 points. Either the objection is that this was in respect of a so-called draft resister or, alternatively, that it happened on Christmas Day. 
All right; there is the method. We have 3 points: It happened in respect of a draft resister; it happened on Christmas Day; and there is the method. Apparently, what is objected to in respect of the method is that the police entered the premises and  Mrs Matteson  said they entered having produced a document which she could not read. She said: 'All right, go in'. That is what I think she said in the letter to  Senator Douglas  McClelland. Having seen the document, she could not read it and so she admitted them. She then went to telephone. The police version, as given by the Attorney-General, is only fractionally different from that. One finds it hard to sec what is the real distinction between those 2 accounts. The police version, as reported to the chamber by the AttorneyGeneral, is that 2 people entered the house. By way of interjection, I think  Senator Douglas  McClelland said that it was not suggested that any more than 2 entered the premises. So I really do not know what is the point about the vast difference in numbers. I think the story is almost identical as between the police and  Mrs Matteson  on most aspects of this matter. The only real differences are the somewhat emotional connotations which are placed upon it by people who apparently wish to make the action, which in any other circumstances would be perfectly proper, become improper because it involves a political issue. One gets the impression that the only reason that this matter is raised is because of its political content, not because of its content from the point of view of civil liberties or the rights of the citizen in relation to the police force. In this particular case I think one should add that at least it is a matter for suspicion if one recalls the attitude which has been adopted by  Mr Matteson  in relation to the warrant which is out for his arrest and his trying to dare, in effect, the police and the Commonwealth Government to enforce the law with regard to him. 
Apparently he has been proud of the fact that he has been able to display a contempt for the law and to endeavour to make, insofar as he can, fools of the police and a joke of the law. Would it not be a good laugh to be able to do it in this particular way, by conning the cops, if I may use that expression for the purposes of making a point, into a raid on Christmas Day? How would a person go about it if he wanted to organise something like that? Possibly he might think it would be a good idea to tip them off that he would be at his mother's home on that day. Possibly it might be a good idea to give some indication that he was there, to give some visible signs to an observant police officer who is trying to check the tip he got from an anonymous call before he enters the home. ] can imagine that there may well have been a little chortling when the police cars arrived. lt may well be that  Mrs Matteson  knew nothing about it. lt may very well be that it was not a put up job at all. But what 1 do not understand from anything that has been said by any honourable senator opposite is what was the real nature of the wrong committed by the police in this case. They were merely carrying out their duty and no doubt felt just as unhappy about having to do this nuisance job on Christmas morning as anybody else would feel about having to work on Christmas morning. If the circumstances are such that it is obvious that some wrong - at least a prima facie wrong - has been committed by the police I have no doubt that the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  will want to know a lot more about it and will want to conduct some form of investigation. 
He has not. He was asked to explain what happened and in the time available to him he sought information. He gave a version which he had obtained at very short notice. It was as much as was available to him to give to the Senate this evening. That was all he was asked to do. Since then  Senator Cavanagh  has suggested that there should he a form of investigation. That request was not made prior to the AttorneyGeneral's speaking. It was made subsequent to his speaking. 
 I would not support that request unless there was some reason why there should be an investigation. Apparently the honourable senator has not been listening to what I have said. If it is suggested that the police behaved improperly in carrying out their duty in relation to a matter which has a political content to it, and if there is some prima facie evidence against them, there should be some further inquiry, but until such time as someone on the opposite side of the chamber can point to that I cannot see what on earth people are doing other than trying to create a political issue for political purposes and for political gain in pursuance of a political plan. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport aware that grave concern has been expressed as to the number of incidents involving failures of synthetic motor tyre tubes and the numerous accidents, deaths and injuries which appear to have resulted from such failures? Will the Minister indicate whether the recently announced safety standards to be imposed in relation to motor tyres will apply also to motor tyre tubes and whether the setting of standards will include a full investigation as to the continued use of such tunes as at present constructed? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. I ask the AttorneyGeneral whether his attention has been  drawn to a statement by the Leader of the Opposition in another place,  Mr Whitlam,  relating to the endorsed Australian Labor Party candidate for the seat of Hotham,  Mr Johnston,  who was described by  Mr Whitlam  as a draft dodger, in the following general terms: 

 Senator Greenwood has been making  public statement's apparently asking me to  find him - 
Johnston. Why doesn't he write to me or see rae about it? 
I ask: Firstly, has the Attorney-General made any such public statement? Secondly, regardless of whether he has made any such public statement, will he take up  Mr Whitlam'*  apparent offer to assist in apprehending a man for whom there is a current warrant of arrest for failure to appear in court to answer a charge? 
 I wish to raise another matter, lt is not related to the point raised by  Senator Cavanagh;  it relates to the provisions as to disclosure of shareholding. In raising this matter I do not wish to do anything to prevent the passage of the Bill and I do not propose even to suggest an amendment at this stage. 1 regard the passage of this Bill as being of the utmost importance. It should be passed by this Parliament with the greatest expedition. There are very good reasons why it should be carried at the first possible opportunity. However 1 think it is appropriate to mention that there are some points to which further consideration could be given with a view to a possible amendment at a later stage. The matter I raise specifically at the moment is the requirements as to disclosure and whether provisions as to disclosure similar to those in the Broadcasting and Television Act could be incorporated in this legislation so that the disclosure may be more effective or more certain in its effect than it may be at the moment. I offer that as a suggestion but I do not wish in any way to impede the passage of the Bill, which I regard as most urgent. 
I suggest for the consideration of honourable senators, and of the Minister, that perhaps this might be an appropriate matter for consideration by the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. There is a number of matters in regard to this legislation which 1 believe should be considered. Some of them are relatively easy points; some rather difficult points. As I indicated earlier, 1 do not wish to see the legislation delayed, but if legislation of this kind is to work effectively then very deep consideration has to be given to it and I believe that my suggestion would be the appropriate way for this chamber to make a contribution towards the real working of an idea which obviously is supported by all parties here. I make the request that it be considered in due course as a matter suitable for reference to that Standing Committee. 
 I listened to the rather amusing speech which  Senator Poyser  made. He made much of the fact that the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  has not yet spoken in the debate. I say to the Attorney-General that I am grateful to him for standing aside to permit me to speak before he does. I wonder what has been happening so far as the Australian Labor Party is concerned. 
There has been a strange order of speakers on that side. There does not seem to have been much concerted support from one of the 2 sides represented by the Opposition in this chamber. I am sure that the Senate will have the opportunity of hearing the Attorney-General who, I have noticed, is making notes of the rather scurrilous arguments that have been raised against him in this debate. As he usually does, he will proceed to demolish, with a skill which qualified him adequately for his position, the argument put by the Opposition. 
But let us look for a moment at the terms of the motion moved by  Senator Murphy.  The motion states that the Attorney-General has dishonoured his office by making prejudicial statements about one Barry Johnston who has been charged but not yet tried on an information alleging a breach of the National Service Act. Let us see what  Senator Greenwood  did say. He. said: 

 Mr Johnston failed to appear before the District Court in Melbourne on 7th February. A warrant has been issued for his arrest and he is being sought by both Commonwealth and State police. 
It is deplorable for any parliamentary candidate to adopt such a contemptuous attitude for lawful processes and deliberately to create a situation where a court issues a warrant for his arrest. 
That statement contains no comment about the only issue relevant to the trial, as  Senator Byrne  has mentioned already, and that is the question of whether  Mr Johnston  is guilty of an offence under section 51 of the National Service Act. As  Senator Byrne  has said, the matter on which the Attorney-General commented very properly in carrying out his official duty was the extraordinary and deplorable behaviour of a candidate who has been endorsed by the ALP to stand for election to this Parliament and who has thumbed his nose at the due process of law. That was the point which was being made by the AttorneyGeneral and that was the point which was overlooked entirely by  Senator Murphy  and by every honourable senator opposite who has spoken to this stage. I note that  Senator James  McClelland has not yet spoken. Knowing his legal background I assumed that he would be speaking, and I still assume that he will be speaking. Perhaps he has been gagged, perhaps not. 
But if he does speak I will be most interested if he can do what  Senator Murphy  failed lo do, what  Senator Wheeldon  failed to do and what  Senator Poyser  did not even attempt to do, that is to explain in any way at all how there is any relationship between the allegation made about the Attorney-General and the true I acts as produced not only by Government supporters but also by  Senator Murphy  himself.  His  own facts do not support his case. How reminiscent it is of another occasion when  Senator Murphy  did precisely the same thing, when he behaved in an extraordinary way in relation to a present Minister who at the time represented the then Attorney-General, lt was the same sort of specious argument and the same sort of fallacious legal argument that was put forward, an argument which was demonstrated to be false, unsound and without the slightest basis either in fact or in law. 
On this occasion  Senator Murphy  has improved, and I suppose we all can be grateful. At least  Senator Murphy  has his law somewhere within a semblance of being accurate. He read from a number of judgments quite accurately but beyond that it is hard to see the slightest relevance of what he said to the facts as disclosed. Let us just have a further look at the facts. All wc have seen so far in what I have read out is that the Attorney-General commented on a statement of fact that  Mr Johnston  had failed lo appear before the court to take his trial. The statement has nothing to do with whether he is guilty or not guilty, lt states simply that he failed to turn up and that a warrant has been issued for his arrest. In other words, he is a man who is being sought by the police for refusing to undergo his trial, not because he is guilty or anything at all but because duc process of law requires that people should have their fair trial. All this talk about his having a fair trial and his fair trial being prejudiced is so much bunkum. He is not prepared to go and have his trial, fair or otherwise. ls it suggested by the ALP that in fact he will not get a fair trial because there is something wrong with the magistrate? Is it suggested that the magistrate is biased in some way, or is it suggested that the magistrate is incompetent in some way and would be so incompetent as to be unable to distinguish between a comment made by the Attorney-General about a fact well known to the magistrate, that is that the man has failed to turn up? Surely to goodness a magistrate who made the order would know that the man had failed to turn up. Is slating that going to prejudice the man's fair trial when the magistrate knows it already? Let us have a look at the law on this particular subject and see whether  Senator Murphy  can tell us in any way at all how he distinguishes this statement of law from the facts in this case. I wish to refer to a judgment of the Court of Appeal in England dealing with a question of contempt. The judgment defines contempt' and goes on to say: 
This is not an action which will be tried by a jury and. although 1 suppose there might bc a case in which the publication was of such a kind that it might even be thought that it would influence I he mind of J professional judge, it has generally been accepted- 
I repeat those words for  Senator Murphy's  benefit -  it has generally been accepted that professional judges are sufficiently well equipped by their professional training to be on their guar.!  against  allowing any such matter as this to influence them in deciding the case, and it is not suggested in the present case that anything had been done to prejudice the trial of this action in that sort of way. 

 Senator Murphy is insulting the magistracy of Australia. 
Sentor James McClelland - Can we have the reference? 
1.965, 2 Weekly Law Reports, page 791.  Senator Murphy  has stated that this action of the AttorneyGeneral will prejudice the fair trial. That means that a magistrate of the State of Victoria, in this case, is incompetent lo do what the Court of Appeal in the United Kingdom expects of any professionally trained person. 
Sentor RAE - That is the inescapable effect of it.  Senator Cavanagh.  I know that the honourable senator does not like it. but that is it. Lel us have a look at what else  Senator Greenwood  said in his capacity as Attorney-General. What did he say about  Mr Johnston?  He said: 

 Mr Whitlam and  Mr Crawford  have  clear duty to repudiate  Mr Johnston  and to disown his course of conduct. 
That course of conduct was a course of conduct by which the man refuses to front up to a court, refuses to take his fair trial, refuses to defend himself, and refuses to comply with the due process of law. The Attorney-General also said: 
Failure to do so is to give support to those who defy the law, and the ALP as a party seeking office should unambiguously show whether or not it encourages lawlessness. 
Apart from  Senator Cavanagh  's suggestion that the fact that he has been endorsed by the ALP would prejudice his fair trial, I cannot see why on earth anybody should say that that would prejudice the fair trial. Let us look at the next statement. The Attorney-General, after a very intemperate statement by  Senator Murphy  - the sort of statement that we have become so familiar with - said: 
If  Senator Murphy  reads my statement he will see that 1 made no judgment on any matter before the Court. The ALP candidate,  Mr B.  Johnston, is evading arrest. He refused to register for national service and was fined. He refused to attend medical examination and was fined and imprisoned. 

 Senator Wright in addressing himself to this matter has slated already that they are matters of public record, that they are matters which would be known and that  they  are matters which could be referred to during the course of the hearing before the magistrate.  T  cannot see for one moment how it can be argued by the ALP  thai  that constitutes a contempt of the court in some way or prejudices in some way the fair trial of the man. ls there any other statement to which  Senator Murphy  or any other member of the Labor  Party has  made reference? I remind honourable senators that we have tried by interjection to get somebody to identify the heinous crime of which the Attorney-General is guilty by way of identification of the  statements  that  he  has made. 
 Thank you very much.  Senator James  McClelland will do it. Apparently it is being saved up so that, we can debate  the  matter for 24 hours before we find out what it is we are supposed to be debating. Let us proceed then to have a look at the other statements. In a further statement, on 27th February the AttorneyGeneral said: 

 Mr Johnston is being sought by police who have a  warrant for his arrest issued by  a  magistrate. His appearance at the ALP conference was impudent. 
And who does not believe that it was? Certainly almost every newspaper editor in Australia believes that it was, and I would say that the vast majority of Australians would believe that it was impudent in the extreme. It was done as a political gimmick. The whole thing has been carried on as a political gimmick. This afternoon's performance is a political gimmick on the part of  Senator Murphy.  Whether or not it is for the reason implied by  Senator Wright  is only conjecture, but it is quite obviously a piece of political gimmickry. 
But let us see what did happen. During a period of some 3 weeks there was comment about the fact that  Mr Johnston  would not face up to his trial, that he was evading his trial and that the ALP should do something to state where it stood on the matter. Apparently by arrangement between  Mr Crawford,  the  President  of the ALP in Victoria, and  Mr Johnston,  he attended a meeting of the ALP Executive in Victoria last Saturday. What did he do there? He addressed the ALP Executive. He was welcomed there and he was wholeheartedly supported not only by  Mr Crawford  but also apparently by all others present. So now we all know where  Mr Johnston  stands, where  Mr Crawford  stands and where the ALP stands. The only trouble is that although we may know where  Mr Crawford  stands for long enough to find him if we want him, we do not know where  Mr Johnston  stands for long enough to find him, because he is not prepared to stand and face his trial. He is a man who is prepared to avoid standing up to what the law requires and what in all other circumstances would be regarded as being the appropriate way to determine whether or not he is guilty. 
 As  Senator O'Byrne  has reminded us, the shopkeepers of New South Wales were gaoled with monotonous regularity by the Labor Government in that State which thought it appropriate to put men in gaol for keeping their shops open. 
Those are the double standards which are applied all the time. I am not saying whether it was right or wrong;  J  am just comparing it with the other things the honourable senator has said. It is funny that there is so much difference between the honourable senator's words and his deeds. Let us think also about the Party which was prepared to put people in gaol without trial; the Party which was prepared to close down newspapers; the Party which sent truckies to gaol for not paying their fines; the Party which has taken all the autocratic and authoritarian action that it could take whenever it has had the chance to get into office and to exercise its power. But let it be out of office, as it has been for so long, and it pretends that the rule of law is something important to it, that is, until the rule of law conflicts with its political interests and then, as it is doing right now in relation to national service, it applies double standards. How typical, how consistent this behaviour has been throughout the history of that Party. 
Let me return to the matter in issue. 4f one looks at the remainder of the statement, the other aspect referred to is that on 28th February the Attorney-General said: 
The conduct of  Mr Johnston, Mr Whitlam  and the ALP generally is becoming a national scandal.  Mr Johnston  is mocking the law and authority and is doing it with the full support of the Victorian ALP. 
That is a statement of fact. The man deliberately went to the ALP executive meeting on the Saturday preceding that statement by the Attorney-General. He went there to mock the law.  His  attendance was made public so that the law would be mocked, but the extraordinary thing about it is that apparently  Mr Whitlam,  the Leader of the Opposition in another place, believes that the police should have been present al the ALP executive meeting so that they could have arrested  Mr Johnston.  That is an extraordinary statement. Perhaps again it is those double standards that apply. 
We are not worrying at the moment about exonerating the AttorneyGeneral. Let us deal with  Mr Whitlam  first and then I will get on with exonerating the Attorney-General.  Mr Whitlam  was interviewed on an Australian Broadcasting Commission programme on 28th February. He was asked: 
As of this moment,  Sir, in  the interim was it wise for the draft resister to appear before the Victorian ALP? 

 Mr Whitlam replied: 
Why were not the Commonwealth police doing their job? 
Why were they not there, 1 add. so that they could have arrested  Mr Johnston?  Perhaps,  Mr Attorney,  I could make a suggestion to you through  Mr President  that you take up  Mr Whitlam  on his offer and that you might like to send police officers to meetings of the ALP in future so that they could see whether any draft resisters were there. 
 Mr Whitlam  has already offered to do that, so apparently he will not only dob them in but he will suggest as well that the police be there so that they can be caught if his information breaks down. Let us look at what has been happening and the attitudes which have been adopted by the ALP. In moving this motion  Senator Murphy  repeatedly failed to distinguish between the comment by  Senator Greenwood  in relation to the failure of  Mr Johnston  to turn up to stand his trial, and matters relevant to the issue of prejudicing the trial itself or matters relevant to the issues which will be the relevant issues in the trial. He failed completely to distinguish between those 2 thing-;. Of course, he had to fail to distinguish between them because if he had distinguished between them there would not have been any basis for his motion. Let me demonstrate that a little further. The argument he put forward overlooked entirely the quotation to which I have referred already as to the difference between trial with a jury and trial without a jury. 

 Senator Wheeldon referred to the man in the Liberal Party in another Stale who is awaiting trial, and he asked whether we were condemning that man. Of course we are not. That man is standing his trial. He is not running away from it. He is prepared to stand up to it and let due process of law take place.  Senator Wheeldon  then referred to  Mr Dargan  and talked about his being a hero of the Liberal Party in 1948 or 1949. He said that  Mr 
Dargan had stood out against the law. In fact I think history will show that  Mr Dargan  stood out against union blackmail. That is what he stood out against, not the law. He was not defying the law; he was defying the blackmail attempts of those who would force him to take actions for political purposes that he was not prepared to take. He stood up to those people. He did not offend against any law in doing so. and he may well have been regarded properly at the time as a man who could be looked up to. 
Please keep out of this.  Senator Cavanagh  said that  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson had suggested that you should report any offence.  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson certainly did not do that, and on his behalf I would refute any suggestion that he did. What he did say was that it would be the undoubted obligation of any responsible citizen, if a person came to him and said: 'The police are after me; I am wanted for something or other' to say: 'I will help you in any way I can but you must go and answer the charge which is against you'. That is the advice that he said would be given. There was no suggestion on the part of  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson that in some way you should dob  a  person in as was suggested by  Senator Cavanagh. 

 Senator Cavanagh made the point, as did Sentor Poyser, that they believed they could oppose the National Service Act because it was  a  bad law. If it was a bad law then why, as  Senator Wright  has pointed out already, did they support it? Who introduced it? Who passed it? What suddenly changed the nature of it if it was not party political problems or differences which might have changed the weight of numbers within the Labor Party and within the Caucus? Is that the explanation for what has happened? Let us look at some of the actions of the Labor Party in relation to other matters. Why did  Senator Murphy  have to buy into this matter in the first place? Was it not proper, if the Labor Party was so offended by what the AttorneyGeneral had said, that  Mr Whitlam  should have jumped into it? But  Mr Whitlam  has done everything, until the night before last, to make sure that he did not buy into this argument. At last he did buy into it and he really put his foot in it when he did when he made the famous statement that draft dodging - in other words, refusing to obey the law - is not a crime. 
A bad law passed by the honourable senator and others. 
Then the honourable senator must be ashamed of himself supporting it. Now  Mr Holding  is trying to get into the act. He made an extraordinary statement when he suggested that amnesty should be given by the Attorney-General. Amnesty would be appropriate if the man was guilty of something.  In  fact what  Mr Holding  has done is to suggest that the man is guilty. The Attorney-General has never done that. This is the extraordinary part of the manoeuvres to try to protect  Mr Whitlam  from becoming further involved in this matter. Alternatively, the move by  Senator Murphy  this afternoon might have been intended to get  Mr Whitlam  further involved in it. One never knows what is happening in the internecine warfare that goes on within the Opposition Party. 
In 1967  Mr Whitiam  described a group in the Victorian ALP Executive, which obviously included  Mr Crawford,  as being disloyal to the ALP, disruptive of its electoral prospects and destructive of all that the Party stood for. He said further that it was disgraceful that such men should be on the ALP Executive. I remind honourable senators that the majority of those men aire still on the Victorian ALP Executive. Where is  Mr Crawford  today, the man who is harbouring, encouraging and supporting  Mr Johnston  in his flouting of the law? A few years ago  Mr Whitlam  was prepared to describe  Mr Crawford  as  a  man who was disloyal to the ALP, disruptive of its electoral prospects and destructive of all that it stood for and that it was disgraceful that he was a member of the ALP Executive. 
He is the  President  of the so-called reformed executive of the ALP in Victoria, as I am reminded. 
Sitting suspended from 5.45 to 8 p.m. 
Tonight we are continuing the debate on the double standards applied by the Australian Labor Party to the rule of law and the National Service Act. A motion was moved this afternoon by the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Murphy.  That motion was unsupportable and so far no real attempt has been made to support it as such. Instead we have had argument which slurs over the basic differentiation between that which would support the motion and that which is fact. The motion. I suggest, has become in reality a motion of no confidence in the Leaders of the Opposition - that is, the Leader of the Opposition in this chamber and the Leader of the Opposition in the other place. It is a motion of no confidence related to the double standards applied by those people and their Party, a Party which is an authoritarian party in government but which when it is in opposition suggests that it espouses the principles of the rule of law. They are confused. They find it. difficult to espouse both principles. They find it necessary as a government, apparently to he authoritarian, to do  the  things that  Senator Carrick  reminded us about the other evening - to put people into gaol without trial, to put into gaol people whose crime is that of keeping their shop open after hours, to put into gaol people whose crime is not to pay some fee relating to driving a truck along a road without a permit, or whatever it may be. 
Yes, we have that as well. They find it difficult to follow a principle.  Senator Murphy  said that the Atorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  had interfered with the fair trial of one Johnston, the endorsed Australian Labor Party candidate for the House of Representatives seat of Hotham. He said that the AttorneyGeneral did some things but this the evidence does not support. He said that the Attorney-General interfered with the fair trial of this man and that he condemned this man in some way. In fact there is not a shred of evidence in the statements read to this chamber which would support this charge. The person who condemned himself, the person who made no pretence whatever of being in any doubt about the situation is none other than  Mr Johnston.  I wish to quote for the benefit of  Senator Murphy  and those who have supported this motion the exact words of  Mr Johnston  when he was interviewed by  Mr Willesee  last evening on channel  9  in Victoria. He was asked: 
Do you accept the fact (hat you are breaking the law? 
He replied: 
I accept the fact that I am breaking this law and I am very proud to be doing it. 
He was then asked: 
But it is breaking the law and the police arc within their rights lo arrest you? 
He replied: 
Yes the police themselves say  they  lune a duty to perform and I agree with them in this case. 
In the same interview  Mr Johnston  referred to the fact that he had  2  prior convictions and that he had been to gaol.  Mr Johnston  said all the things which  Senator Murphy  alleged were the terribly heinous offences committed by the Attorney-General in prejudicing the fair trial of this man. It is perfectly obvious that the whole matter so far as the ALP is concerned is a publicity gimmick and a complete sham. 
Let us see what the result was. We had  Mr Whitlam  commenting about draft dodging. 'National service draftdodging is not a crime', said  Mr Whitlam.  But his own Party's amendment to the National Service Act which is at present before the House of Representatives includes a penalty of  12  months for draft dodging. That is the Labor Party's own proposition. 
It provides for  12  months imprisonment for draft dodging. That is the Labor Party's proposition in a Bill which is now before the House ot Representatives. How much sham can people perform? The Labor Party comes here and says that it is justified in opposing this terrible Act, yet it is an Act which it supported in  1951,  an Act which it supported when it was amended in  1968,  and an Act which it now proposes to amend at its own initiative and which still includes the crime of draft dodging. Yet we have the leader of that Party,  Mr Whitlam,  saying that draft dodging is not an offence. 
That is a good interjection from  Senator Gair. 
 Senator Gair  reminds us that it was the Democratic Labor Party which was vigilant about the authoritarian attitude of the ALP as typified by the situation to which he referred. We continue to find double standards applied, as ever before, by the Australian Labor Party. The standard it adopts depends on whether it wants something or whether it is opposing what the Government has done. The one thing which is beyond doubt is that the Australian Labor Party is prepared to make a sham of this Act and of our law and our legal system, lt is prepared for political gimmickry purposes to hold to ridicule the whole of the legal system, to endorse as a candidate - admittedly he was the only applicant for the position, which shows the depths to which the Labor Party has sunk - a man whose self-confessed attitude towards the matter is this: 'I have a compaign of legal defiance, of due processes of law and 1 am prepared to continue defying the due processes of law so long as 1 think it suits my political purposes'. If necessary, as he said last night, he would be prepared to go to gaol if he thought that served his purpose better. He has condemned himself by his own words but more importantly he has condemned  Senator Murphy's  sham, he has condemned the sham of  Mr Whitlam,  and he has condemned the sham of the Australian Labor Party. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. At the time that he is giving consideration to the matter raised today by  Senator Carrick,  will he also give consideration to the outstanding aspects of the copyright law relating to material stored by computer or data bank? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs make inquiries to confirm or deny the allegation that the Leader of the Opposition in another place  (Mr Whitlam)  has clearly an J wilfully misled the people of Australia by claiming that during his discussion with the Premier of Mainland China, Chou En-lai, last year an indication was given that China would join another Geneva conference? Is it correct that a Chinese Foreign Ministry transcript discloses that the only discussion on the subject was with the acting Foreign Minister, Chi Peng-fei, who stated that there was no such possibility at present? 
Has the AttorneyGeneral had the opportunity to study the report of the Law Council of Australia on uniform consumer protection legislation? Bearing in mind the very real importance of further and more effective steps to be taken to provide proper consumer protection throughout Australia, will the Minister indicate as soon as possible his attitude to the report and its recommendations? 
 I will reply to  Senator Hannan  very briefly. I challenge him to produce any authoritative or statistical evidence to show that the position which he raised is any more of a problem in places which do not have the death penalty than those which do. In fact, my reading indicates to me that there has been no rise in the extent of the problem and that most prison authorities regard the lifer as one of their least problems. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. Bearing in mind the evidence given to Estimates Committee B and that Committee's report to the Senate as to its concern at the slow rate of progress in the Office of the Environment reaching establishment, can the Minister indicate what progress has now been made in bringing that office's staff up to establishment? 
I too was shocked by the remarks of  Senator James  McClelland. I do not propose to become highly involved in the events which have taken place, but I. found both the accusations and the way in which they were made quite extraordinary. I do not think I need say more. They were more than extraordinary. But I will not go into them. The matter I will go into is that an accusation has been made, has been repeated and is false. That accusation is that the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  was deliberately scheming to keep this Bill from coming before this chamber to reach finality when he recommended and moved that it be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. That is an untrue allegation. 1 can speak from my own knowledge as to its lack of foundation. But the accusation has been repeated and encouraged. 1 was one of those who was present when a discussion took place with the Attorney-General as to whether it was a good idea to have the matter referred to that Committee for the purpose of trying to iron out some of the problems. I had hoped that some of those honourable senators from this side of the chamber who have a free vote, as well as members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party and the independent senators in this chamber who may be wavering in their attitude or who may be in favour of capital punishment would have had an opportunity of hearing the matters argued in a different context from the context of the chamber debate. I was hoping to have some of the considerations such as those put forward by  Senator Withers  in his contribution to the second reading debate and those matters put forward by  Senator Byrne  and other honourable senators considered by a committee. That is one of the reasons why I thought it was a good idea for this whole matter to be referred to that Senate Standing Committee. I fully supported the proposal and encouraged the Attorney-General to move in the way in which he did. 
As honourable senators know and as I have proved, I am personally in favour of the passage of this Bill. There has been a continuing smear against a person whose integrity in relation to this particular matter is beyond question. If anyone wishes to challenge other honourable senators on this side of the chamber who voted as I did he will find that the support for the move was unanimous. He will find that I spoke to those honourable senators who were not present at .the meeting and obtained their agreement to the course of action which was proposed. A stop has to be put to the continuation of this smear against the Attorney-General that he has been deliberately avoiding this matter coming to a hearing. If  Senator Murphy  would be fully frank he would agree also that there were special circumstances last week as to why this matter did not come on, and those circumstances were not the fault of the Attorney-General. 1 simply wish to make it abundantly clear to this chamber and to anybody else, who is interested in this matter that it was not at the instigation of the Attorney-General that the matter was referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. 
1 wish to speak about this particular amendment. lt is the only occasion on which I propose to speak about any of the amendments and therefore to an extent I shall address myself to all of them. The absence of facts and material to enable us to debate this aspect of the matter wilh greater particularity is a disappointing result of the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. I had hoped that, amongst the other things that Committee would do. it would have ascertained some of the facts about the matter raised by  Senator Hannan.  One. must bear in mind that the total number of murders in the United Kingdom is very small. In 1965 1 think there were 32 capital  murders  and in 1967 there were 49 capital murders. 
Yes. The increase may or may nol be of great significance. If there were some particular event in one year, such as a particular action on the part of one man, mad or otherwise, who shot it out with police officers, there could be a dramatic rise in the number of deaths of police officers irrespective qf the existence of the death penalty. I make no further comment on thai point. These are the sorts of things that I hoped the Committee might have been able to consider and report on to the Senate. The argument that if the death penalty is not provided persons convicted of murder and certain other crimes may be let out again and may commit further crime was dealt with, 1 think, in the earlier debate. To  Senator Wood  I would simply say that surely the 2 questions are separable. If one thinks of a person such as Bradley, the murderer of the Thorne boy, one would not find it very hard to imagine that if one had the opportunity to shut the door and throw the key away one would feel like doing it. 1 am not sure that that is a justification for taking Bradley's life. After all, we hope that we have reached the stage in civilisation where the taking of life is abhorrent to the organisation of our society. 
I cannot see that the arguments put forward in relation to times of war, the conduct of persons, the administration of law and the keeping of law and order justify the reintroduction or continuation of something which our society generally regards as abhorrent. The question is not an emotional one, although the approach is usually emotional. I rather regard it as a matter of the ideals of a society. To what do we aspire? Is there a justification for a departure from that to which we aspire? Much as I can sympathise with the problems that have been raised by  Senator Wright  and other speakers who are in favour of the amendment, who have spoken of the problem of the wartime situation and the problem generally of the control of prisons, 1 suggest that these are not justifications for the continuation of something which is totally abhorrent. There must be other ways in which our society can organise itself to deal with those problems. 

 Senator Wright, Senator Hannan and  Senator Wood  have referred to what has happened in other countries in relation to the increase in the number of deaths by murder of police officers, prison officers and other people in similar positions. Let us look at the experience of Australia. Has there been a dramatic increase in murders in the States which have abolished capital punishment? Do those facts which may be perfectly proper and relevant to be brought into the argument in relation to other countries actually apply in Australia? I have not heard anybody giving the figures, although it is my recollection that in the earlier debate  Senator Greenwood  made some reference to them. There does not appear to be any fundamental statistical evidence to support the argument as being applicable in this country, at this time. In conclusion, let me support  Senator Carrick.  I wish to make it quite clear that no vote of mine in relation to this matter which we have been debating should be taken as in any way supporting or approving the action which I regard as infamous conduct on the part of  Senator James  McClelland this evening. Because I have voted continuously in one particular way I do not wish to be taken as in any way condoning or accepting that behaviour. I make that point quite clear. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Tasmania respectfully showeth: 
That the appalling pollution of the River Tamar is caused by the raw effluent of the City of Launceston being prevented escape into the sea by incoming tides. This tidal motion of raw effluent is rapidly breaking down the River's ecology with disastrous effects on the bird and fish life in and around the River. 
Your petitioners therefore, humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Ensure that emergency Commonwealth finance is made available to the State of Tasmania for the establishment of a Primary and Secondary Sewerage Plant in Launceston. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 

 Senator RAE (Tasmania) -  Mr President,  I ask for leave to make a short statement of explanation in relation to the petition and some associated signatures. 
I move accordingly. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 I wish to speak briefly to this particular aspect of the Standing Orders Committee report. Following the growth of the Senate committee system consideration of this matter is most important. Many of the matters referred to standing committees, particularly, and to a lesser extent some of those referred to select committees require, because of the public interest in them which caused the Senate to refer them to committees, that the reports of the committees be made available for public information at the earliest possible date. There are  2  periods of the year during which a committee may miss out by only a few days in presenting its report to the Senate and may have to wait several months before (he report can be presented. That is not in the best interests of the Senate, of the Senate committee system or of the general public. One must bear in mind that a committee may be able to finalise its report during a parliamentary session but then have to wait a period of time for it to be printed and thus find that it cannot be tabled for several months because the Parliament has gone into recess. 
If there is a doubt about whether privilege attaches to a report, it seems to me that this is a matter which could be overcome either by legislation or by clarification of certain aspects of the Standing Orders. Whichever may be the feasible course, I urge that the Standing Orders Committee give full consideration at the earliest possible time to recommending the appropriate steps so that such reports may be presented during the period that the Senate is in recess. In this way the committee system can be given the utmost opportunity to be fully effective in the interests not only of the Senate but also of the Australian public. 
 I would be most interested if it is possible for the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  to indicate to us any of the advice which caused the Standing Orders Committee to express the doubt it has expressed in paragraph 22 of item 7. If this could not be done, I ask in the light of what  Senator Cavanagh  has said, whether the matter could be stood over rather than received. If what  Senator Cavanagh  says is correct - that is, that it was the general view of the Committee that this was desirable - then the remedy would seem to be relatively simple. I would be in favour of getting on with effecting the remedy at the earliest possible time. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales - Minister for Health) (5.37)  -  I hold the same view as  Senator Cavanagh  holds to a degree. I would need to read the transcript of the evidence again to bring out all the points that were raised. Some suggestion of doubt as to the procedure was raised, I recall also the question being raised that when a committee is appointed it has an obligation to report to the Senate. Those 2 points came into the matter. It was a question of whether business of the Senate was being conducted out of session and whether the report could therefore be sent to the  President  to be published, before it had been presented to the Senate, with it containing all the imprimatur of being a Senate document per se. There were 2 ingredients in that element. Firstly, there was the element of whether the document must first come to the Senate because the Senate is the master of the committee. Secondly, there was the element of publishing the report before it was placed before the Senate and it not having the protection of a document of the Senate once it was put down. 
Those are the types of elements associated with the question. That is why the Committee made the suggestion it did. J would not like it to be thought - I know he did not mean this - that what  Senator Wright  said could contain the connotation that the Committee was just going to put the matter aside, lt was going to come back to it. lt intended to take note of it. The idea it had was to obtain, the reaction of honourable senators in the Committee of the Whole and perhaps obtain some additional angles in relation to it for when we next deal with it. That is why I have suggested we take note of paragraphs 20 and 22 of item 7. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Item 8 (Rights of witnesses - Standing Order 390). 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales - Minister for Health) (5.40)  -  in regard to standing order 390, the Standing Orders Committee considered the suggestion that it was advantageous to have formulated a code of rules relating to the fundamental rights of witnesses. This has become, very critical. This is what the Committee laid down. In the light of what has transpired subsequently in relation to the rights of witnesses, we were almost pathetic in our looking at the situation. In regard to the rights of witnesses, dealt with in item 8, the Committee states: 
The Committee considered a suggestion that it would be advantageous to have formulated a code of rules relating to the fundamental rights of witnesses appearing before standing and select committees of the Senate, including provision in such code for protective procedures where individual interests might be under inquiry. The types of matter suggested for codifying included the questions of notice of allegation, interval of time before questioning, representation by counsel, the right to question adverse witnesses, and the grounds of privilege excusing witnesses from being required to answer questions. 
In considering this matter, it was noted that the Senate has already referred a cognate matter to the Privileges Committee, with a view to establishing the rights, responsibilities, obligations and protection of senators, members of the Press and others in relation to Committee proceedings. 
To assist in the formulation of rules, the Standing Orders Committee recommends to the Senate that the scope of the reference to the Privileges Committee be enlarged to include a consideration of the general question of provision for protective procedures where individual interests are under inquiry. 
I move: 
That the recommendations contained in paragraphs 23 to 25 be agreed to. 
As we have developed our committee system and the references to be dealt with, we have gone into fields which have required the calling of witnesses from commerce and industry. The question of the rights of people and the procedures that should be adopted is a matter which has grown with the growth of the. concept of the committee system in the Senate. As I say, the Committee has very properly brought its mind to the matter and feels that it has to be dealt with and resolved. I might add that it has been a matter of some Press comment. I have read, as 1 am sure other honourable senators have read, even leading articles in relation to this question. It has to be dealt with. Here again, a situation exists in which we will be seeking some reaction from the Committee of the Whole because my motion at this point of time is merely that the recommendations in paragraph 25 be agreed to. The Committee states: 
To assist in the formulation of rules, the Standing Orders Committee recommends to tha 
Senate that the scope of the reference to the Privileges Committee be enlarged to include a consideration of the general question of provision for protective procedures where individual interests are under inquiry. 
All it does really is to pass the matter to a more legalised committee, the Privileges Committee, for it to express an opinion on it. I would be delighted if we could get some reaction from the Committee of the Whole on this matter. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Sitting suspended from 5.44 to 8 p.m. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales - 'Minister for Health) - by leave - I wonder whether I could intercede to suggest that we report progress so that we can clarify the situation in regard to the motion moved by  Senator Cavanagh  this afternoon. 
Progress reported. 
I note that the main objective of the discussion is the question of the reference of a number of these matters to the Privileges Committee so that the Privileges Committee may complete the inquiry which it has undertaken for some considerable period. I therefore do not intend to go at any length into a number of the matters that I believe are of most considerable importance, but will refrain and debate them as a member of the Privileges Committee. However, I do think that it is necessary and desirable to refer to a couple of points. 
The first is in relation to the distinction made by  Senator Murphy  between the penal jurisdiction and the inquisitorial jurisdiction of the Senate committee. There is considerable confusion in the minds of many people, including the authors of some public commentary on the matter of the Senate committee or the parliamentary committee, in their approach to the two. Whether they come to the conclusion that the same protection should apply in either instance to a witness is another question. 1 feel that it is necessary and desirable that they should distinguish between the 2 and realise the different considerations which apply in relation to them. I felt that  Senator Murphy  was drawing attention to an important point of distinction during his earlier speech. 
The matter which has been more latterly discussed is the' standing order relating to evidence being taken in camera and the possibily of publication of that evidence. I simply wish to remind honourable senators that there may be many reasons for taking evidence in camera. The bald statement that one would expect that that evidence will never be released unless with the consent of the witness or that it will never be released under any circumstances which would exclude one situation which readily comes to mind. That is this: It may be necessary in the interests of the fair trial of a person or the fair trial of some litigation which is to take place between persons that evidence should be taken in camera until the conclusion of those proceedings which are to take place in a court. But it may be also a matter which is particularly relevant to the inquiry of the Senate committee and particularly relevant to the report which the Senate committee will make. It may be that the appropriate way to deal with the matter is to take the evidence in camera and to make quite clear to the witness that the evidence is being taken in camera not permanently but to prevent publication at the time of taking- 
 I realise that. I am simply referring to that example not by way of criticising what was said by  Senator Murphy  or by  Senator Brown  but simply to indicate that if we leave this discussion on the point that that is all there is to say about it we are excluding a vast number of considerations that can lead to the taking of evidence in camera with no intention that that evidence should be permanently retained by the Senate committee in private and never revealed. I have mentioned but one example of a situation which could give rise to that consideration. 
It may very well be that there are some other situations of doubt at a specific time. It may be that, for a wide variety of reasons, a Senate committee may decide to accede to a request to hear evidence in camera making it clear, I would hope, to the witness at the time that the committee would be reviewing its decision and reserves the right to publish that evidence at some later time. It may be a matter of very considerable importance to the committee's  report  that it should be free to publish that evidence. I feel that it is important that very special consideration be given to standing order 390 which provides the general protection to which reference is made in the report of the Standing Orders Committee. That general protection is stated in these words: 
All Witnesses examined before the Senate, or any Committee thereof, are entitled to the protection of the Senate in respect of anything that may be said by them in their evidence. 
But the question which immediately arises so far as 1 am concerned is what the Senate does to protect the person if the evidence given has been misused. It can only use its privileges powers to punish the person who has misused the evidence, but it may very well be that by then damage has been done. I am inclined to the view that the Senate could very well give serious consideration to suggesting some greater protection than the protection which is provided by standing order 390. When one makes that suggestion one immediately is likely to receive the answer: Yes, but greater protection is already given by the Bill of Rights of 1688. I agree that the Bill of Rights does provide substantial protection, a very important protection, but one wonders whether there are not some imperfections in standing order 390 and whether there are not some doubts in relation to the Bill of Rights. Not the least of the doubts is the meaning of 'proceedings of Parliament'. One may very well feel that these doubts could be. overcome by a new approach which took into account the need to give adequate protection, clearly, unambiguously and at the time it is needed, not simply by punishing someone afterwards for a breach that they might have committed. That is another matter which one could debate at very considerable length. I simply draw attention to it because it is directly relevant to the standing order which has been reported upon by the Standing Orders Committee. 
I should like to sum up in general what I see the argument as being. It is an argument between those who would favour codification and those who would favour the common law approach. One of the other things I say, not by way of criticism of  Senator Murphy  or of anything that he or any other honourable senator might have said, but simply because I feel that it is desirable to put this beyond doubt, is that this debate has tended to give the impression, because of the points that have been raised, that there are insufficient rules to protect witnesses and that in fact one might have concluded that there were not very many rules at all. I think an examination of the existing rules in the Standing Orders will show that there are many standing orders which specifically protect witnesses. It is only when one goes through the Standing Orders and lists the ones providing protection that one is able to get a full list. It is an impressive list. I should hate anyone either listening to or reading the debate which has taken place tonight to go away with the impression that Senate committee procedures are inadequate at the moment. It may be that they could be improved and it may be. that a number of things should be done, but to suggest that they are inadequate, or for one to have the impression that they were inadequate, would be mistaking the nature of the debate and the comments made by various speakers. 
The other aspect which is of very great importance in a consideration of the rights of witnesses before parliamentary committees and particularly Senate committees is the law of the customs of Parliament or the common law. It has been built up on the same principle as the common law which governs much of the law of the people not only of Australia but also of the United Kingdom. Of course we inherited it from the United Kingdom originally, or much of it, and have since built more. 
Yes, we have made a few changes in it, and it may be that we should make more changes in the law in relation to the customs of Parliament. I simply refer to the existence of that law and the fact that one can quite readily ascertain a very great body of law which does apply to committees and to committee hearings, and applies particularly to provide a substantial protection to witnesses who appear before committees. That law is definable, discernible and effective. I should not like to allow the opportunity to pass while speaking here tonight without drawing attention to this protection because a false impression that there is inadequate protection might otherwise be obtained. That we may be able to improve that protection is one thing; that it does exist at the moment and does work is another. I simply leave it on the basis that I applaud the reference to the Privileges Committee for the very full consideration which the subject does deserve with the growth of the Senate committee system. But, please, let there be no misunderstanding. There are rules, both written and unwritten, which do protect witnesses at the moment. Those rules are effective, although they may be in need of greater perfection and greater modernisation or greater ease of application. 
I present the following petition: 
To the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder, a wilderness area in South-West Tasmania possessing unique flora  and fauna is threatened with destruction by inundation as a part of the first stage of the Gordon River hydro-electric scheme. 
That a suitable alternative for a hydroelectric scheme does exist, which, if developed would ensure that the unique qualities of Lake Pedder would be preserved. 
That, having regard to the fact that Australia is becoming increasingly urbanised, the need to preserve such a wilderness area as Lake Pedder in its natural state is considered by a large number of persons as being of vitalimportance for the well-being of the present and unborn generations of Australians. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, will through its Standing Committee on Social Environment, examine whether the proposed inundation of Lake Pedder is in the national interest, having regard to the need to preserve the unique flora and fauna of this wilderness area for the enjoyment of all Australians, including future generations. And your Petitioners, asin duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question to the Minister for Civil Aviation is further to the question asked by  Senator Byrne  and answered by the Minister earlier this afternoon relating to the attempted takeover of Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. Will the continued employment of the present highly qualified and experienced staff of Ansett Transport Industries Ltd be one of the matters taken into account by the Government in any consideration of the approval of transfer of ownership? I ask this question bearing in mind the importance to air safety of the continued use of experienced and qualified airline staff. 
I present the following petition from 156 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
Tothe Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the Australian Post Office proposes to construct a solid concrete tower, housing radio- telephony/television transmission facilities and including a viewing platform and restaurant on Black Mountain in Canberra. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled should: 
Take note of the opinion of many responsible citizens that such a tower would seriously impair the beauty of the city and is likely to lessen the value of the Black Mountan flora and fauna reserve. 
In view of the need to preserve the environmental quality of the national capital, urge the government to examine this proposal, and in particular to consider placing the solid radiotelephony structureon one of the alternative sites, using Black Mountain for  a  television transmission mast only. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Health. By way of brief preface, I state that on 2nd December 1971 in answer to a question of mine he said that he would give consideration to the points raise.d in the debate on the National Health Bill in 1970 relating to medical benefits for the services of ophthalmologists and optometrists and the prescribing and supply of spectacles. The Minister said further that he would be prepared to put down a ministerial statement in rela  tion to the matter. I now ask the Minister whether he will give consideration to making that ministerial statement at the earliest possible time. 
I do recall the statement that I made in response to the question. Naturally, what I said automatically would go to the Department. In fact, the issues that were raised are continuing and are under consideration at present. I have not yet in my possession the views that I would wish to study before transposing them into a ministerial statement. But this will be done and there will not be any delay. So, when I do put the ministerial statement down, it will have the full value of the study that I have given to it. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. Is it not a fact that one of the primary conclusions of the report of the Advisory Committee on the Teaching of Asian Languages and Cultures in Australia was that there was in Australia inadequate treatment of Asia in social studies and other courses at secondary school level? What steps are being taken by the Commonwealth Government to remedy that situation? If no steps have yet been taken will the Minister make representations to his colleague the Minister for Education and Science to have action implemented to achieve adequate treatment of Asian languages and cultures in secondary schools in Australia? 
 I wish to deal with clause 24 which provides for leave of absence for service with a State or outside Australia. There is a relevant consideration there which I raise not with a view to wishing in any way to amend the provisions but to draw attention to something which I think is of some importance. One of the matters which I think is agreed by most people to be desirable is that there should be an increase in the opportunity for the interchange of experience between universities, teaching colleges and schools. In many instances members of the Commonwealth Teaching Service probably will not be suitably qualified to be engaged in university teaching, teachers college teaching or college of advanced education teaching. But there may be some and it would seem to me to be highly desirable that those people should have available to them the opportunity to serve in a university or other tertiary institution for a limited period and then return to the Teaching Service. 
The same position should apply to those who are engaged in the tertiary institutions. They should be able to be seconded to the Teaching Service for a limited period to have the opportunity to become more familiar with current problems and practices so far as practical teaching within schools is concerned. It seems to me that there is a limitation of transfer imposed by clause 24 and by the definition that leave of absence is available only for service in a school operated by a State or other government authority as opposed to a university. I simply draw attention to this. I do not wish it to be pursued at the moment but it may be a matter of some relevance to be considered at some later time. 
My question, which I address to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science, follows the question I asked yesterday about the teaching of Asian languages and cultures in secondary schools in Australia. Can the Minister supply any further information about steps which have been taken for the teaching of some Asian studies in secondary and tertiary institutions in Tasmania? 
 Consideration has been given by the Government to the terms of the original motion and to the amendments sought to it by  Senator Murphy.  I have conferred with the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotion),  who has already spoken during this debate, about the proposed amendments and he has indicated to me that it is the Government's attitude that there is merit in some of the amendments proposed by  Senator Murphy  but that the Government is not persuaded that the remainder warrant an alteration to the original terms of the motion and therefore does not propose to support them. It boils down to this: The changes that  Senator Byrne  has indicated will be made by  Senator Gair  at a later stage will be supported by the Government. They include the addition to paragraph 1 (a) of the motion of the words Ansett Transport Industries' so that the ascertainment will be of the degree of nonAustralian ownership, whether direct or indirect, of the issued share capital of not only Thomas Nationwide Transport but also Ansett Transport Industries. The Government will also support the proposal to include paragraph 7 of  Senator Murphy's  circulated amendment. 
I have been authorised to do so,  Sir. 
I indicated that the Minister for Civil Aviation had already spoken in the debate and was therefore not in a position to speak again., I also indicated that after a conference with, him I had been authorised to say what was the Government's attitude. 
I thank  Senator Cotton  for the interjection in which he confirmed that I was so authorised. As I have said support will be forthcoming also for the inclusion of  Senator Murphy's  seventh proposition, which reads: 
The foregoing provisions of this resolution shall have effect notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Standing Orders or in any previous resolution of the Senate. 
Having indicated that, I wish to make my own comments - I emphasise that they will be my own comments - in relation to this matter. The demarcation line has been drawn. From now on I speak wholly and solely for myself. First of all, I wish to express my general support for action to be taken in accordance with the general terms of the proposal. I think that there is general but not unanimous agreement within this chamber on this. There are 2 important aspects to this proposal. One is the particular interest that has been shown in this attempted takeover. Various speakers have put forward the reasons why they believe it would or would not be in the national interest and why they believe It warrants investigation. I do not propose to canvass those matters again. I think they have been canvassed sufficiently already. Although I do not necessarily agree with everything said by either  Senator Gair  or any other  speaker,  I think enough has been said at the moment about the proposed takeover. 
The other aspect which concerns me is the manner in which this market operation has taken place. I tried to ascertain from  Senator Murphy  what he meant by 'the manner of the proposed takeover' in paragraph (d) of his amendments. He seemed to indicate that he was wondering about what might happen to the structure of Thomas Nationwide Transport in the event of the takeover proceeding and of some changes eventually coming about as a result of the takeover. I was not able to elicit from him any real meaning to be given to those words which went beyond the types of matters which would be investigated in any event under the other paragraphs of the reference. 
I do not understand how that comes within  Senator Murphy's  proposal as to the manner of the proposed takeover. That is why, by way of interjection, I tried to obtain some elucidation from him. Perhaps I can talk about 'manner' in a different sense or not limit myself to the sense in which  Senator Murphy  mentioned it. I would understand 'manner of takeover' to mean the market operations and the general transactions which are involved as a necessary part of what will result in a takeover. I find some considerable cause for public disquiet in relation to a number of those things. I make no concluded judgments whatsoever. But if one looks at what appears from the Press reports to have taken place one finds that a number of steps taken in relation to this matter would warrant an investigation by an investigatory, body, if one were available in Australia to make such an investigation. 
Just a moment. In the public interest it may well be that such an investigation should be conducted in public. There are some bodies such as the Commissioner of Corporate Affairs in one State or the Companies Registrar in another State, or an inspector under the Companies Acts in the States, which could conduct such an investigation under State legislation, but at the moment there is no Commonwealth body which is able to conduct that inquiry.  Senator Murphy  interjected a moment ago that he thought that there was such a body. I assume he was referring to the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. I would mention to him that he has expressed an interest on a number of occasions in that Committee reporting at the earliest possible date. In a statement to the Senate in 
December last the Commitee indicated that in its view matters were still continuing that warranted some investigation but that in the interests of producing a report at the earliest possible time it did not intend to conduct any further inquiry into any new matter unless specifically directed to do so by the Senate, which would involve the consideration that any such further investigation would inevitably delay the production of a report by the Committee. 
I thank  Senator Murphy  for making that clear. I do believe that there are matters of public concern as to the conduct of the capital markets in Australia - the conduct of general stock market practice - which may very well warrant investigation. I think we should make it clear as to whether it is intended that this Committee ought to include those matters in its investigation because by leaving in the terms of reference such things as 'matters incidental thereto' it may well be that the Committee will have the power to examine them. I think the Senate should indicate whether it intends the Committee to look into the market operations side as well as into the public interest side. I am not saying that there is not a public interest aspect in market operations because there is. But the debate so far has been associated with the general public interest rather than being directed in any way to the question of market operation. I think the Committee would be advantaged by having some indication from the Senate on what it requires of the Committee in this respect. I think that if the Senate requires a quick investigation and a report within 28 days, obviously the Committee will not have enough time to conduct fully both types of inquiry. In fact, I would have some considerable doubt whether it would have time to conduct the first type of inquiry, namely, that which is clearly stated within the proposed terms of reference. 
Yes, I know. I mentioned that and say I think we should make it clear to the Committee whether under 'matters incidental thereto' we, as  a  Senate, intend the Committee to investigate the market operation side. 
 Senator Wright  has expressed his view that this matter should be raised. I believe it is important that this whole matter should be clarified during this debate. I do not raise it because I wish to create difficulties for anybody in the consideration of this question. Let me mention some of the things I have in mind that this Committee could investigate. I very deliberately omit a number of matters which I regard to be of importance. If Ae Committee concerned itself with all of these matters the inquiry could take some time. It could investigate the circumstances surrounding the $6m share placement by TNT which was an integral part of the first part of this undertaking. Should the investigation by this Committee of the takeover to which we are referring include the initial steps? I refer to the purchase by TNT of 23i per cent of the issued share capital of ATI? It may be that that placement which was part of the means by which the original purchase was able to take place is a matter which would come within the Committee's terms of reference; it may be outside them. Again, I think this needs to be specifically spelled out. 
I would think that it is, but I think that this sort of thing needs to be spelled out for the. benefit of the Committee since it has to do a job within 28 days. That is a short period in which to do it, especially when the investigation of each one of these matters could require a considerable amount of time. If the matter to which I have referred is to be investigated by the Committee, let that be made clear. Another matter that I wonder about from the point of view of stock market practice is the reports of the private briefings of limited numbers of shareholders by the directors of TNT. Again, is that a matter into which the Committee should make inquiries and make comment? Another matter concerns the circumstances surrounding, and the nature of, the public statements made by the directors of both companies which apparently were intended to affect the market value of the shares of each of those companies and which were, made publicly to the Press and not to the stock exchanges. Those are matters of very considerable importance in relation to the manner - I use my meaning of the word manner' - in which this takeover has been effected and the defence to the takeover has been effected. Are they intended to be included? Are the actions which were taken in possible market support of the shares of both of those companies intended to be included in the matters incidental to the terms of reference of the Committee? 
Suggestions have been made in the Press - I do nothing more than simply refer to what has been said in the Press - that there has been, or was likely to be, market support engaged in by those assisting and those participating in either trying to take over or trying to defend the takeover. Are they matters which are intended to be included in the terms of reference? If they are not, then I think the Senate's view in relation to those matters should be made reasonably clear to the Committee. I have mentioned only a few of a very considerable number of matters which conceivably could be of concern to the Senate and which could be investigated by the, Committee if lt took a liberal view of its terms of reference in relation to matters incidental to the general question of the takeover. 
Will the Committee be concerned to find out in detail the. financial structure of TNT not only as at present but also in the future? Is this important as to exactly how the takeover is to be financed? In view of our 2-airline policy and in view of the extent to which the Government is involved already in the support of Ansett Transport Industries, it may be that if the future structure of that company and TNT is to be something which is supported by, shall I say, paper issue, only rather than hard cash we may find ourselves in a situation where the Government has to come to the rescue. I do not think I need dwell upon the problems that arose for Australia as a result of the crash of Mineral Securities Ltd which some may believe resulted from an over-extension on short term credit. Is that one of the matters which is to be investigated by this Committee? In other words, is the Committee to find out - if so, in what depth - in what manner the financing of the takeover eventually will be supported? I mention these things only because I think it is important that they be clarified. I am not urging in any way that  Senator Gair's  motion should be altered; although I think it would be helpful if he and the members of his Party gave some consideration to these matters and, simply by way of indication to the Senate, clarified his meaning and the way in which he believes the Committee should procee.d to carry out its inquiry. A very great number of points could be raised in relation to this matter. I think probably most of them are better not raised at this stage. For that reason I do not propose to say anything further except to raise, as I have, just a few of the more outstanding possible other lines of inquiry in which the Committee could be involved unless it receives some reasonably clear indication from the Senate that it is not required so to do. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Cant)  - Is leave granted? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - There being no objection, leave is granted. 
On 12th April,  Senator Cant  spoke on :he adjournment and raised in this chamber a number of serious allegations involving the integrity and the ability of the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood).  The AttorneyGeneral replied as to his bona fides in relation to the particular matter and as to the merits of his particular action. But there was an area of  Senator Cant's  speech and the matters which he raised which was integral to his argument and vital to its validity. He said, amongst other things, that the Attorney-General could not even read the law correctly. He accused the Attorney-General of misinforming the people of Western Australia and possibly other parts of Australia in relation to the law relating to the circumstances in which prisoners in gaol in Western Australia may be released on study leave. But  Senator Cant  went further and issued a challenge to any other member of this chamber to gainsay his exposition of the law. 
I wish to accept the challenge. I limit myself to that and to that aspect only because 1 believe that the other areas raised by  Senator Cant  have been replied to by the Attorney-General. I do not intend to raise those in any way at all. A number of statements by  Senator Cant  as to the law have not been answered and they do require an answer because, wittingly or unwittingly, it was  Senator Cant  who was guilty of mis-statement rather than the Attorney-General. Perhaps it was because he received a rather poor brief from those whom he quoted as the authorities in Western Australia who had informed him. 
No, he did not. The honourable senator may have noticed that while  Senator Cant  was speaking I left the chamber to go down to the Library to check what he was saying. I found that it was not possible to find any regulation such as that which was being mentioned by  Senator Cant.  This caused me to search a little further to find Whether any such regulation existed. This is what has brought me here tonight. 

 Senator Cant, according to page 10S2 of the daily Hansard report of the Senate debates stated first of all: 
The authorities in Western Australia advise me that, under the Liberal Parly-Country Party Government in Western Australia, the terms and conditions for the release of prisoners were very restricted and that the then Minister for Justice would not agree to any liberalisation of them. But on 4th March 1971 there was an amendment to the Prisons Act. 
I think he meant 'regulations'. There was no amendment to the Prisons Act on 4th March 1971. So, I searched to find whether there was any amendment to the regulations. There was no amendment to the regulations on 4th March 1971. However, significantly there was an amendment to the regulations on 4th March 1970, when the former Liberal-Country Party Government was still in power. The significance of that date ls that the political point which  Senator Cant  attempted to make in alleging that the former Government of Western Australia was harsh in its treatment of prisoners, as distinct from the free and easy, generous and compassionate Labor government which came in and made appropriate amendments is a misconstruction of fact and has no substantiation whatsoever. In fact, the only amendment to regulations which is relevant to the debate was an amendment introduced by the former Government and not the present Government of Western Australia. 
No. That is the second misstatement, as I will show by quoting what happened. In order to make a political point  Senator Cant  relied upon a wrong date, as I have already explained. Secondly, he referred to regulation 280 in relation to the prisoner who is the subject matter of the debate. He said: 
He is a prisoner within the regulations. Regulation No. 280 relating to Part VIC of the regulations sets out the purposes for which leave may be granted. Among these purposes - and I want the Minister to take particular note of this provision - is this: 
A prisoner may be granted leave for his welfare or the welfare of the family unit. 
Regulation 280 does not refer to prisoners obtaining leave for the welfare of themselves or their family units. 
Just a minute,  Senator Cavanagh.  Regulation No. 280 refers to institutions for the reception of convicted inebriates. I am not clear on the exact relationship between that and the matters with which we are concerned. If one turns to the regulation to which one must assume  Senator Cant  was referring - I will take up  Senator Cavanagh's  point - one finds regulation No. 283, which provides: 
Subject to this part of these regulations on the application of a prisoner the Comptroller-General may with the approval of the Minister grant leave of absence to a prisoner for any of the following purposes - / 
to engage in employment outside the prison during the period of his detention; 
to attend at a hospital for medical treatment; 
to seek employment; or-  1 emphasise the next provision - 
to be in attendance on his family - 
on occasions of family illness or family bereavement; or 
for his welfare or the welfare of the family unit. 
There is no such regulation as that quoted by  Senator Cant  to substantiate his allegations against the Attorney-General. The only regulation to which he could have been referring is regulation No. 283 which, again I emphasise, provides only that, a prisoner may be granted leave of absence to be in attendance on his family, amongst other things, for his welfare or the welfare of the family unit. There is no provision which in the terms quoted by  Senator Cant  says that a prisoner may be granted leave for his welfare or the welfare of the family unit. It was a misstatement by  Senator Cant  in accusing the Attorney-General of a lack of knowledge of the law and a lack of integrity. I believe that if the matter is checked by anyone it will be found that I have not in any way misstated the provisions of the Western Australian prison regulations. I think it will be found that the basic validity of  Senator Cant's  attack upon the AttorneyGeneral is completely specious. He has misquoted and misstated and it is my suggestion that he owes the Attorney-General an apology. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs been drawn to the resolution of the Victorian State Executive of the Australian Labor Party supporting and applauding the Communist North Vietnam- ese and their invasion of South Vietnam? Has his attention been drawn also to the recent election advertisements of the ALP in Tasmania which carry the message Teamwork's the Thing - and Labor's Got it'? If so, can the Minister confirm that some of those advertisements also have carried a photograph of 2 men in earnest conversation? Is it a fact that those 2 men so pictured are respectively the Secretaries of State of Socialist West Germany and of Communist East Germany? If so, can the Minister confirm that these matters clearly constitute public confirmation of the Australian Labor Party's belief and pride in the existence of teamwork between the Socialist and Communist Parties? 
Will the AttorneyGeneral advise whether any progress has been made in the consideration being given by him and his Department to the introduction of a system of family courts in Australia? 
Will the Minister representing the Treasurer ask his colleague the Treasurer to consider publishing at the same time as the awaited White Paper on overseas investment the fullest details of Australian investment in overseas countries together with an expression of the Government's views in relation to the further encouragement of such Australian investment, particularly in countries in South East Asia? 
I will put the honourable senator's request to the Treasurer. 
I take exception to the words 'unconscionable delay' in the introduction to the honourable senator's question. The answer to the question, stated briefly, is that the report of the Select Committee on Securities and Exchange will be presented as soon as possible. 1 can assure you,  Mr President,  and the Senate that a great deal of work - voluntary work, paid work by persons other than Committee members, and work by Committee members - has been going on constantly. That work began shortly after the Committee was set up and shortly after the motion to refer very wide terms of reference to the Committee was carried. Although the Committee has completed public hearings and has made a report to the Senate by way of a statement in December last year, it has been continuing to undertake a number of inquiries which were necessary for the purposes of the preparation of the report. It has received a vast quantity of documentary evidence which it has been necessary to assess for the purposes of the report. The matters related to the areas covered in the public inquiry. 
Through you,  Mr President,  I point out to  Senator Murphy  a fact which perhaps he has overlooked. There has never been a public inquiry into the very broad areas - I emphasise this - which were referred to the Committee by the Senate on the motion of  Senator Murphy.  Certainly in Australia there has been virtually no inquiry into these areas since 1945. Under its terms of reference the Committee was bound to raise a very wide area of issues in which there have been vast changes. It does take a considerable time to prepare a report on such a broad field. Perhaps  Senator Murphy,  due to lack of experience or for some other reason, is not aware that to prepare a report on such a broad spectrum as that covered by the terms of reference does involve a great deal of research and compilation work. I take one aspect alone. In Australia there has never been an inquiry into brokers' accounts. The Committee received 5 years brokers' accounts. That alone is a major task of analysis. There was no prior information as to brokers* finances, earnings, capital structure and all the other matters involved. 
In every other country in which such an inquiry has been undertaken, many single areas of investigation alone have taken longer than this Committee has taken so far. For instance, in the United States of America the Securities and Exchange Commission started an inquiry more than 2 years ago on one aspect alone - that of brokers' rates. Only now is the policy arising from that inquiry coming forward. I could go on by way of explanation. The question was raised in what I regard as an offensive manner and 1 have replied at greater length than I might have done had it not been framed in this way. 
I have listened to my friend  Senator Mulvihill  speaking with, I thought, some justifiable emotion about what sometimes happens to Senate committee reports. 1 felt that when he was speaking he had in mind the reports relating to the environment. I was somewhat disappointed that he did not spend more time talking about that matter, upon which I acknowledge he is an expert, rather than a matter upon which I have the greatest doubt as to his expertise. But with no further comment T pass on to talk about the matter which we are debating and thai is foreign investment and the sudden radical action proposed by the Australian Democratic Labor Party and supported by the Australian Labor Party.  Mr President,  I suggest that for a start we cut out the emotion in dealing with this matter on which it is easy to become emotional. I accept that people can, with considerable justification, become emotional on this matter. 
That precisely sums up the situation. Although I say 'Let us cut out the emotion' let us not cut out in any way an expression of economic nationalism. I believe that Australia has reached the stage where it is entitled to indulge in a little economic nationalism - and not only entitled to indulge. I believe that any Australian government with the interests of the Australian people at heart is bound to indulge in a little economic nationalism even if it ls defensive rather than offensive. At a later stage I shall refer to a little offensive economic nationalism which I think we could usefully undertake. But let us be rational and weigh the considerations. Everybody accepts that we need growth. Everybody accepts our need for investment for development. Do we still need foreign capital to enable us to have that growth, that capital for investment and that development which we seek? Are the present circumstances still such as to warrant an unrestricted inflow of capital into this country for the purposes of encouraging development and investment. 
I shall diverge for a moment. Because of our striking a particular rate in relation to our currency, have we created a situation which, temporarily at least, cuts out any necessity for a consideration of the encouragement of investment funds flowing into this country? Are we almost at the stage where we can say that we no longer need to worry about that, temporarily, because obviously the exchange rate is such as to introduce capita] whether we want it pr not. Whether people wish to invest in particular projects or not, it will flow into this country while we maintain an unreal exchange rate. Also 1 suggest that we should bear in mind the need to retain the opportunity to share in the growth of this country. Australians should have an opportunity to participate in the major growth points of the economy and in what might be described as the 'goodies' which are available to capital, particularly risk capital, in a rapidly developing nation such as this. 
Like everyone else's resources, our resources are limited. If these resources are fully and rapidly exploited at this stage and if further exploration and development fails to find greater quantities then we may find ourselves in a very difficult situation. To this extent I quite agree with the sentiments which have been expressed in this chamber today in relation to this matter. It is a matter for concern. It is a matter about which I believe we are all concerned. Certainly the Government has indicated in varying degrees through various persons its concern about the matters which have been raised here today. But the first and foremost matter which I urge upon the Senate is that balance in the approach is required. The problem is: Where does the balance lie? At the present time that is very hard to determine. If I could criticise - mildly of course - the information available to us I would say that there is a lack in Australia at the moment of adequate information to enable us to say with certainty what is the situation. What is the balance which we should strike? Perhaps before Australia moves in any other direction it would be most advantageous to move in the direction of really finding out what is the inflow, where is it going, why is it coming in and the way in which it is affecting the situation in Australia. To what extent are the matters about which people have been speaking this afternoon and this evening being affected? 
 Senator Gair,  with that I have concurred and I do not take issue, but 1 point out that the Committee has undertaken, as the Select Committee on Securities and Exchange has undertaken, because of the terms of reference, a complex, long and necessarily involved examination. I think the matter is a little more urgent than that and I hope not only that we can benefit from the results of the deliberations of the Committee to which you refer but also that we can obtain results more quickly, enabling the Government to act even tentatively by requiring and ensuring that we obtain a greater degree of information available to us now as well as a thorough Senate committee type examination, which can be and is usefully being conducted. 
This is where you and 1 part company,  Senator Gair.  I do not think we know enough at this stage to support the motion, though, as you will gather, I am not differing with you on a lot of major points. I am saying there is a lack of information but the indications are clear. 1 believe the prima facie indications at this stage are that we have a continuing capital inflow. We have a situation in which we need not be as concerned as we were in the days when the Current Affairs Bulletins on overseas investment in Australia published in August 1961 said that the basic attitudes to foreign investment in Australia were largely the product of the universally felt desire for rapid national development. I think we are past that stage. Perhaps it is the result of the particular adjustments that were made lo the exchange rate, but I think we were passing that stage anyway, notwithstanding that. I think we can say, as set out in that very interesting article in that Current Affairs Bulletin in 1961, that no longer do we have to approach it in that way. Whilst we are considering this matter let us have another look at the motion itself that has been proposed by  Senator Kane  and supported not only by his colleagues in the Democratic Labor Party but also by members of the Australian Labor Party. It says: 
The need lo initiate immediately such legislative and administrative measures either alone or in cooperation with the States-  and, one may say, wonder of wonders if that could be achieved at this stage - in this particular field, I hasten to add -  as will impede, delay or prevent the transfer of the beneficial ownership of shares in Australian public companies lo non-Australian ownership until the report ...  or until something else has happened. What is the effect of it? The effect of it is to put a complete ban immediately upon the transfer of shares by any person, be he an overseas investor in Australia or an Australian investor, to any person who is resident overseas. The problems of definition are difficult to go into when one has only a quarter of an hour in which to speak, but 1 wish to raise briefly, for the benefit of those who are to speak later in the debate, the problem of definition of Australian companies. What does that mean? I do not know. It has a number of possible meanings. It could mean Australian registered public companies. It could mean Australian public companies which at the moment are 50 per cent or more owned by Australian shareholders. It could mean Australian companies which are owned other than through nominee holdings in some of the States in which it is possible to hold in nominee names by Australian shareholders, or it could mean a great number of other things which at the moment are impossible for us to determine. I suggest with the greatest of respect to  Senator Gair  and the members of his Party that there are problems in trying to implement a motion such as this. Even if one could overcome the definition problems and understand precisely what is meant, one then comes to the problem  of  what will happen. With the greatest of respect, I have not heard from those who have preceded me in this debate an examination of the possible effects of this particular action which is sought, andI hasten to add again that I am not in any way at all debating or disputing the general sympathy for the matter which has given rise to this particular motion. 
That is so, and I trust that we will see from the Government not only a will but also a way. 
As a member of the Government parties, I am expressing a will so fur as I am concerned. I think there is a will amongst a great number of the members of the Government parties that something should happen in relation to these areas and there is a confidence that our Government will act in relation to them. Earlier speakers have referred to the measures that have already been undertaken and the measures that are expected to be undertaken. Let us not have any difference about the general sympathy. Let us get down to a consideration of some of the matters involved. One question that  1  ask, and I was asking when  Senator Gair  interjected - an interjection whichI did not mind as it was a perfectly reasonable observation - was whether any  speaker  this afternoon had considered what might happen as a result of the implementation of measures such as these that are suggested. For instance - and I raise this only as a possibility - has anybody ascertained or commented upon the extent to which British and Japanese investment in particular, plus other foreign investment through our stock exchanges and our capital markets in Australia can be taken as a basic element of the support of the depth of those markets. Can anyone say that if Australia withdraws summarily and arbitrarily by legislation the possibility of those people continuing to invest in some of those markets, that such markets will not collapse, particularly when one bears in mind the present much publicised loss of confidence in the Australian economy. I hasten to add that I am not suggesting that  1  believe this to be likely, butI believe it is prudent to consider it before voting in favour of a motion such as this.  1  certainly have not heard an economic argument and a detailed and reasoned argument supplied to us in support of this motion which would make me go even so far as to say that upon the balance of probabilities that would not happen. I have my own view, and I hasten to add that it is that the inflow of portfolio investments into Australia from overseas in recent times has been relatively small and that the amount of money that is available in Australia through the various institutional investors is more than sufficient to take up the lag, and I do not believe that the matter I have raised is a reality. However, I suggest to the mover of the motion and his supporters that it is one of the important things that should be considered and confirmed or rejected before the vote is cast in favour of a motion such as this. 
I have my view, but J did not have time when the matter came to my notice this afternoon to research adequately and confirm what is a general feeling as far as I am concerned. I certainly was disappointed to find that apparently nobody who supports this motion was concerned enough to find out this information. If we go on to look at some of the other possibilities, I wonder whether those who support the motion can say with satisfaction that these things which may happen are less dangerous than the thing we all know is happening at the moment. I repeat that I am not suggesting that some action is not necessary. However, I ask why it is necessary to do it in this particular way - this particular and extreme way that has been suggested here today. Let us look for the moment at the capital inflow question. Is Australia really receiving capital inflow only because, as we have heard so often, andI think already heard referred to in this debate, of our relatively high interest rates.I think the Euro bond or the Euro dollar interest rates are higher. I consider that interest rates are no longer the cause, and that there is no cause stronger than that of the exchange rate. I notice that, unfortunately, I have exhausted the time allowed to me in which to speak. However, although my time is completed, I hope that Australia's time in relation to investment is not. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Is the Minister aware that certain groups of people in Tasmania have expressed concern regarding the suggested establishment of an Omega navigational station in Tasmania? Will the Minister endeavour to have a statement made to the Senate giving any information of a factual nature that is available to the Government in relation to this project? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI am not briefed on this matter. I shall certainly refer the question to the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. I shall spell out the honourable senator's request that consideration be given to making an official statement on the issues concerned. I shall certainly do that in good faith. 
Is the Attorney-General aware of the growing concern at the large increases in marriage breakdown and divorce in Australia? Is the Minister also aware of the growing concern at the operation of the present matrimonial causes legislation? Will he therefore consider making a statement as to any possible legislative amendments or other steps which he considers may overcome or reduce the concern to which I have referred? Are any steps being taken to undertake further research into the operation of marriage guidance in Australia? 
by leave - I present the report of Estimates Committee B. together with the minutes of proceedings. Also, I table the Hansard report of the evidence taken. In doing so, I wish to draw the attention of the Senate to the following paragraphs of the Committee's report: 
The Committee, noting the confirmation by the Senate of the view expressed in its November 1971 report, has considered further questions which arise in relation to this matter. 
After some delay the Committee received from the Acting Postmaster-General the deferred answers to questions asked by Committee members. 
In that reply the Minister raised the question of the possible detriment to the business interests of a Statutory Corporation, and therefore to the public interest, if such a Statutory Corporation was required to divulge, in public, information which would weaken the bargaining and competitive position of that Corporation. 
The Committee unanimously agreed that without necessarily accepting the reasons stated in the Minister's letter in relation to the particular questions and their subject matter, it did recognise the existence of some circumstances which would warrant the objection of a Statutory Corporation or government department to answering questions or supplying information in public. 
The Committee believes that all such information should be available but that in some circumstances it must be upon a prima facie confidential basis. The Committee believes that in such circumstances a Committee should hear such information whilst sitting in private session. 
With these views the Attorney-General, as the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, agreed.  . . upon consideration and advice, the Committee has concluded that considerable doubt exists as to whether a Senate Estimates Committee has, under the present Standing Orders and Terms of Reference, the power, on its own initiative, to take evidence in private session. 
It would therefore appear that some revision of the Standing Orders and terms of Reference under which Estimates Committees operate may be necessary to permit them to hear evidence in private session on their own initiative. 
The Committee is therefore of the opinion that the matter of Estimates Committees meeting in private session should be referred to the Standing Orders Committee for its consideration and report to the Senate prior to the next meetings of the Estimates Committees. 
In making this report the Committee draws attention to the 2 important principles arising. First, that subject only to any express legislative provision to the contrary, there is no area of expenditure of public funds of Statutory Corporations which cannot be examined by Parliament or its Committees' and secondly, that circumstances may well exist where the interests of such corporations may be adversely affected by the public disclosure of information relating to their commercial or business activities. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Has there been any discussion of Australia's established immigration policy' or Australia's restricted immigration policy', as it is also known, since the inception of the Immigration Advisory Council or its Standing Committees: if so, (a) on what occasions, and by which Committee or Council was the matter so discussed, and (b) what was the general nature of the discussion as minuted. 
Will the AttorneyGeneral inform the Senate whether he will consider making a statement on behalf of the Government in regard to the blatant and deliberate promotion of violence in the streets and law-breaking by members of Parliament? If so, will he indicate what matters he will consider including in that statement? 
 I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of government education services has established serious deficiencies in education, the most important areas being a severe shortage of teachers, inadequate accommodation, and, as a result, oversized classes. 
That extra Federal finance is urgently required to save the government school system. 
That while the needs of the government schools are being neglected, large amounts of public money are being given, in various and numerous grants, to private schools. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate and the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to make emergency Federal finance available to the States for State school education, and divert the large sums of public money being spent on private schools, to the government school system for which the government is specifically responsible. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport: What progress has been made on the study being conducted by the Bureau of Transport Economics in relation to the transport disabilities suffered by the State of Tasmania? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration aware of a document published in the name of the Immigration Control Association and forwarded to many members of the community, including members of Parliament? Is the Minister aware that that document claims that figures published recently by the Department of Immigration show that the total intake of people of non-European and mixed descent for the year to June 1971 is 9,055? The Bureau of Census and Statistics reveals that for the same period the number of arrivals, less departures, of people born in Asia and Africa, excluding temporary visitors and whites from South Africa, was 26,828. Will the Minister seek to obtain a full statement as to the accuracy or otherwise of the reconciliation in relation to those figures? Will the Minister comment upon the apparent racialist basis of the Immigration Control Association's publications, the nature and extent of its membership and the circulation of its newsletters? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. Bearing in mind the urgent concern which was expressed by all members of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution, can the Minister indicate whether the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts has taken any of the recommended steps, that is, the steps recommended by that Committee in its report made nearly 2 years ago? 
We have heard from  Senator Turnbull  a speech which I think was, from what I gather was shown on television, not unnatural and not unreasonable. From  Senator O'Byrne  we have heard a lot of- 
As my friend  Senator Davidson  interjects, preposterous nonsense. Let us consider for a moment what really happened. I happened to be in Kings Hall and saw a number of gentlemen who were so obviously policemen that I wondered what was happening. I did see all the events that took place at lunch time today. Perhaps that puts me in a position which is a little better than some of those who may have seen those events on television. I also wish to mention that I was a unversity student and that I enjoyed doing these sorts of things. But if they backfired, my thought was that I had to accept that they had backfired. I can imagine what  Senator Turnbull  might think- 
Yes. That is the simple thing. It was an impersonation, as I understand it. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! 
If I may, I would like to say a few words without being crossexamined by counsel for the draft resisters' union or whatever  Senator Cavanagh  is. I know- 
Are you taking a point of order or not? 
No, I will not call him that. I will simply say 'being crossexamined by  Senator Cavanagh  or anybody else'. The simple position, as I understood it, was that the enthusiasm which has become evident here is student-like enthusiasm for playing what is substantially a game. After all, it has lost its real importance. There was a time when draft resisters, draft dodgers or whatever they may be called according to the particular philosophy of a particular person did have, perhaps, a particular point. They used to maintain that their real stand was against being conscripted to take part in a particular war, but that possibility is no longer current. It may be at some time in the future - one never knows - but it is not current at the moment. The whole thing seems to have become substantially one of the undergraduate games of the current day. I have participated in undergraduate games and I have enjoyed undergraduate games, but 1 do not think  -  I direct this to  Senator Turnbull  - that they should be taken too seriously. I can imagine that if some students wish to play a game by a deliberate impersonation, one of another- 
 I would like to make my speech, if I may, without the assistance of  Senator Devitt.  The situation, as I understood it from observation, was that the police had been put in a position where they were led to believe that a certain young man by the name of Shanley was one Wood for whom a warrant of arrest had been issued. There were graphic descriptions in the Press this afternoon of this young man running down the steps of Parliament House and being chased across the street by the police. I saw that young man walk down those steps and walk across the street, and I saw the police come out of Parliament House some time later and walk across to him. I repeat that it was some time later. There was an appreciable gap in time between the two events. I was also conscious of the existence of a man whom I subsequently believed to be one Wood who was the second person arrested. I saw his presence on the steps of Parliament House; I saw him walk from the far side of the road back to this side of the road and into Parliament House. Apparently  Senator O'Byrne  has been told that he never came into the place. That is not correct. He came in. He was continually endeavouring to attract attention. The whole thing was extremely well operated. 
 I do not have a copy. 
 I have not even seen the statement, but I did see what happened at lunch time. 
No, I did not know that there was another television camera at another entrance to Parliament House, but I did see all the television cameramen waiting for some considerable time before eventually the Draft Resisters Union managed to raise its flag on the far side of the road to the right of the Aboriginal 'embassy'. They assembled right opposite the entrance to Parliament House; they raised their flag and then they proceeded to have their little lark. May I through you,  Mr Deputy President,  ask  Senator Turnbull  to draw my attention to any part of the Attorney-General's statement which he wishes to bring to my notice? 
That is right. They came into Parliament House. They then left Parliament House and walked down the steps and across the 2 roads to the far side, and they were followed shortly afterwards by gentlemen whom I did not know personally but who were so obviously policemen that I would simply- 
 I am not ridiculing the Commonwealth police; I am saying that they obviously were policemen. They followed Headland and Shanley across the road. They went across to this fellow. I did not hear what was said and I do not pretend that I know what was said, but  I  did hear him protesting at that time that there was no warrant for his arrest and that he was not Wood. The police having been told either directly or only very indirectly that this gentleman claimed to be Wood, that he had told the Press throughout the morning that he intended to come to Parliament House for this particular &lt; performance - the Press was warned; the  i  Press was there - and then having claimed that he was Wood but upon arrest claiming 1 that he was not Wood, I can imagine the horse laughter throughout the community if it had turned out, upon the police releasing him, that in fact he was Wood. The situation would be ludicrous. Fortunately we have not reached the stage where the police have a dossier on every person in this community. The police do not have photographs of everybody. They are not necessarily able to identify every person who happens to a tuppeny-halfpenny draft resister or some other relatively unimportant member of the community. I hope that the situation never arises where the Commonwealth police or any of the State police can turn up a file and automatically identify any person in the community. 
I simply make the point that this was a student prank. If it backfired on  Mr Shanley,  then it backfired on him. I do not think he was seriously hurt. As I understand it, he was released. He certainly was not being manhandled in any vicious or nasty way. For  Senator 0'Burne  to start talking about fascist-like conduct is emotionalism and extremism quite unwarranted in the circumstances. The position of those policemen acting in a difficult situation, trying to carry out a duty which I think is not made any easier when at the moment it is regarded as a standard joke for university students to play this sort of prank, is not made any easier when they are attacked in this place. I think  Senator Turnbull  raised this matter reasonably; I think  Senator O'Byrne  unreasonably jumped in to make quite outrageous statements about rights being taken away by a bungle, about fascistlike conduct and about other things. 
A crowd was watching this performance. The police had a job to do within that crowd. Pressmen were present. A film crew was there. Can one interview a man when one has a microphone shoved under one's mouth? Can one really find out whether he is the guy one wants in these circumstances? Is it not reasonable to take him to the car and said: 'Come to the station and let us sort it out there'? 
He may have said so on television, but he was also getting a great deal of assistance from a number of other people present, and 1 would have thought that the best possible way for any policeman, acting reasonably, to find out what happened would be to take him from that situation. As I understand the position from what the Attorney-General has said - I did not hear what happened in the car- once they got into the car the invitaton was extended to go to the police station. Certainly there was no manhandling. Certainly there was no breach of what is a reasonable code of conduct which one can expect from the police. Maybe after a few more inquiries the police may not have taken him to the station. But really it is Wowing it up out of all proportion to have a debate such as this on this matter. 
 Mr President,  I have a point of order to raise. I move, under standing order 364: 
That the documents from which  Senator McAuliffe  quoted be tabled. 
 Pursuant to standing order 364,I move: 
That the documents quoted from by  Senator McAuliffe  in the speech which he has just concluded be tabled. 
A Document quoted from by a  Senator not  a Minister of the Crown may be ordered by the Senate  to  be laid upon the Table; such Order may be made without Notice immediately upon the conclusion of the speech of the  Senator who  has quoted therefrom. 
The question is: 'That the motion be agreed to'. Those of that opinion say aye, to the contrary no, I think the ayes have it. 
A Document quoted from by a  Senator not  a Minister of the Crown may be ordered by the Senate to be laid upon the Table; such Order may be made without Notice immediately upon the conclusion of the speech of the  Senator who  has quoted therefrom. 
Now,  Senator Douglas  McClelland, you dispute that Standing Order? 
Has the AttorneyGeneral's attention been drawn to the judgment given yesterday by  Mr Justice  Eggleston in relation to resale price maintenance? If so, can the Attorney-General explain why the result should appear to place an Australian bookseller in a different position from the bookseller in other countries which have similar legislation? 
I wish to speak very briefly. There is a point which is relevant to clause 49 and which does nol involve an amendment. I wish to take this opportunity to make a suggestion. There is always a problem in relation to the average union member who does not read his rules and does not read the Act and who wishes to resign but does not realise that he has to resign in writing. The situation then is that the union continues to carry him on the books for perhaps a year or two. He becomes overdue with his union dues. Eventually the matter is cleared up by his resigning in writing and probably receiving a summons for several years union dues. There is ill-feeling and wasted time, lt is wasteful to the union and expensive to the member. I think that it would be unfortunate in general relationships. It would be preferable if, in some suitable way, the necessity for resignation in writing was drawn to the attention of union members. One of the simple ways to do that is to have it stated either on the receipts for payment or on the card. I simply make that suggestion for the consideration of those concerned. 
 With a spirit of helpfulness I suggest for the consideration of  Senator James  McClelland who moved the amendment a further amendment to sub-section (4.) of proposed new section 145. If it is worded in the way I shall suggest it will overcome the problem which has just been raised. I suggest that sub-section (4.) read: 
A resignation of membership of  an  organisation is valid notwithstanding that it is not effected in accordance with this section if the acceptance of the resignation is recorded  by  the organisation or if the member is informed in writing  by  or  on  behalf of  the  organisation that the resignation has  been  accepted. 
I have added the words 'if the acceptance of the resignation is recorded by the organisation' and 'in writing". So the union records recording the resignation or the notice in writing would  be  proof of the acceptance of the resignation. This seems to go someway towards overcomingthe problem. 
I was interested to hear what  Senator Little  and preceding speakers had to say on this subject. I wish to offer as shortly as I can a few thoughts on it. I accepted the problem. I do not debate the subject of the extent to which smoking may be deleterious to one's health. What I am not satisfied about are the facts in relation to the problem and the way in which we are approaching it. Firstly, I wonder whether cutting out advertising does not reduce competition and whether a reduction of competition does not prevent new competitors from entering into a field with better products having such things as improved filters. I wonder whether, in effect, the banning of advertising is not likely to lead to increased prices because the same competition is not obtained. In a number of ways I wonder whether this is the right way to approach the matter. I believe the general situation is that competition through advertising is beneficial to the community. I do not say anything further about that. 
There may be some wasteful aspects but I think the waste is picked up in the advantage. I believe it is a matter of balance. I come to the question of singling out one section of the community to bear the cost for the community benefit. I wonder on what basis we can justify singling out television and radio stations to bear what I think we all agree is a community cost. The situation over many years has been that these sections of the media, along with the other sections, have enjoyed a freedom to engage in advertising as a form of revenue raising. The whole system has operated on a basis that advertising is the fundamental aspect upon which radio, television, newspapers and magazines generally operate. Suddenly we are arbitrarily imposing in relation to one section only - I realise that there are limitations on our power to impose this on the other sections - what is in effect a ban. I can imagine how keen the tobacco companies will be to advertise that their products are dangerous or likely to bc dangerous. 
Obviously, what has happened in other countries will most probably happen in Australia; the tobacco companies will turn to forms of advertising other than radio or television. So I pose the question: How fair is this approach? At least  wc  might have given the stations time to adjust to the change or alternatively approach the matter from the viewpoint suggested by  Senator Georges,  namely, that perhaps some rebate could be made out of the fees which are paid for broadcast listeners' licences and television viewers' licences. It seems to me that we are expecting some of the small and large companies of Australia which are serving a useful purpose to carry the cost of something which everybody agrees is being done for the community benefit. I would ask whether all we are doing is giving an advantage to those who produce films for showing in cinemas, who produce posters, who produce newspaper advertisements and who produce gimmicks of various sorts to the disadvantage of one section of the community which will have to bear the cost. 
I am not saying that it is going far enough. I would not like to go along with banning at all. I would prefer to approach the matter from the viewpoint of applauding the steps that have been taken in relation to the education programme. I think this is something for which the Government is to be congratulated and in which we can all hope there will be success. But I just wonder whether we have been entirely fair in singling out for bearing part of the cost of the total programme one section of the community. 
Debate interrupted. 
Can the Minister representing the Prime Minister confirm recent reports that Canada and Australia have agreed on an exchange programme for civil servants who are regarded as having executive potential? If so, can he give further details of the operation of the scheme? 
 I will be very brief in concluding my remarks on this Bill. I remind honourable senators that the subject matter of the debate is the proposed action to require certain warnings to be given on television and radio broadcasting, in some such form as 'medical authorities warn that smoking is a health hazard', at the same time as advertisements for cigarettes are broadcast. 1 commented yesterday before the debate was adjourned that it appeared to me that the step contemplated was singling out one section of the media to bear the cost of a socially desirable programme. The views of some of this small section of the community which has been singled out to bear the cost have been well expressed in a letter which I received from the manager of a relatively small radio station. The letter says: 
As I mentioned to you earlier this month, along with 116 other radio station Managers in Australia, I am extremely alarmed at the government's intention to enact legislation to force radio and television commercials for cigarettes, to carry a health warning. 
The main concern is the principle involved, the principle which we believe will seriously damage our right to free speech. We believe it wrong to attack a product which your government believes to be a health hazard, through its advertising, whilst it is still quite legal to manufacture and sell the product without any restriction. We appreciate the reason for your concern for the health of the young people in the community, but even after this legislation comes into effect, it will still be possible to purchase cigarettes in milk bars, supermarkets and school shops, as it has always been. 1 appreciate that the general public will not be greatly concerned about cigarette advertising. Habitual smokers will still be able to buy cigarettes and non-smokers probably would not even notice the withdrawal of the advertising, and if they do they probably would not care too much. 
The loss of revenue from advertising, which will result, is not our main concern, though it will turn a number of smaller stations from barely profitable operations into loss operations, and I do not like the thought of losing this revenue, but our main concern is, as I mentioned, the principle involved. If the officers of the Health Department are so convinced that cigarette smoking is dangerous, then why do not they have the courage to ban the manufacture and sale of cigarettes? The announcement was made without any prior consultation with our industry representatives, and our subsequent representations to the minister appear to have been completely ignored. 
It is, I believe, a generally held view in our industry that this would be a far fairer, and more effective way of solving the problem. T do not believe that this legislation will achieve anything more than a temporary pacification of a small pressure group. I understand that in the United States where cigarette advertising is completely banned, manufacturers have found other (but more expensive) means of attracting attention to their products, with the result that cigarette sales are reported to be up by 17 per cent. 
This is all rather ironical when you consider that this same Health Department has asked the mass media in Australia to help them (voluntarily) with the increasing problems of drug abuse in Australia. I quote the  Deputy  Director General of Health,  Dr L.  J. Wienholt- 'We have failed to stop it and we need your help', and 'we plead with you to help us before it is too late'. The result of this plea has been the setting up of various State Media Advisory Committees on Drug Education, representative of all mass media. I have been elected to be the Tasmanian radio representative on this committee, and the principal aim of this committee will be given our complete support. 1 believe a very important principle is at stake, because if this legislation goes through, then the way will be clear for the government to enact similar legislation in respect of any product, any minority group might consider to be a health hazard in some form or other. It may sound ridiculous but it would be possible to present a convincing argument, supporting the banning of electricity as a health hazard in homes. Further to that, if this legislation is passed, then the group  who consider that dairy products cause heart disease could ask for similar legislation, and so on for cars, to which many deaths among young people can be attributed, to alcohol, which, with some people, can lead to alcoholism which is a health hazard. The future possibilities can make the mind boggle. . . . 
That letter sets out some of the thoughts of the operators in this section of the community which has been singled out to bear the cost, by way of less of revenue, on behalf of the community. I simply make these remarks in order that further consideration can be given by the Government to the operation of this ban so that if it is considered that the ban is not succeeding in its objective perhaps the position can be rectified before too much damage is done to the individuals who have to bear the cost on behalf of the community. I do not support the amendment moved by. the Opposition. The complete banning of all cigarette and tobacco advertising has not been shown to be justified.' If' one is in doubt about whether it is justified to require the health warning to be given in this way, which amounts to a near ban on television and radio advertising, how much greater doubt would one have as to the advisability of a complete ban of all advertising? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Is it a fact that repeated questions and letters from une relating to a Bureau of Transport Economics investigation into the question of a shipping subsidy to Tasmania have been answered with a statement that the Government does not consider that a subsidy is an appropriate solution to the problem of that State's trade? When will the Bureau of Transport Economics study of Tasmania's transport disabilities be completed? Will it be made public upon completion? Finally, why is it considered that a subsidy is not an appropriate solution to the problems in the Tasmanian trade? 
The Bills are not, as has been made clear by both  Senator Wheeldon  and  Senator McManus.  matters of contest so far as the Parties in this chamber are concerned. I wish to make reference to only one relatively small aspect of them. It was a matter of some concern to many members of the community that there appeared to be a growing fear that with the continued use of motor vehicles by the various representatives of other countries, either in the course of their diplomatic or consular activities or in the course of their private activities, if those vehicles were involved in accidents many Australians may possibly be subjected to a situation whereby they would not be entitled to any award of damages such as they could receive in other circumstances. 1 think it is important to point out again, as was pointed out by the Minister in his second reading speech, that the protection of immunity given under these Bills in respect of the 52 consular posts which are headed by a career consular officers and the 106 posts headed by honorary consuls, and in relation to the other activities which come within consular immunity, motor vehicle accidents are specifically excluded. 
The convention apparently specifically dealt with this matter and the result is that all members of a consular post are required to comply with local laws governing third party insurance for motor vehicles, vessels or aircraft. No immunity is granted in respect of a civil action by a third party for damages arising from an accident caused by a motor vehicle, a vessel or an aircraft. I draw attention to this because there has been some disquiet in the community about it. I think it needs to be emphasised that so far as consuls and those coming within consular immunity are concerned this is not a matter for concern by the community. 
1 address to the AttorneyGeneral a question which follows the question asked by  Senator Dame  Nancy Buttfield and the Minister's reply to that question. I also refer to the numerous questions on the subject which I have asked the Minister and his predecessors. I now ask whether the Minister will consider Commonwealth participation in the existing nationwide legal aid schemes by providing an appropriate contribution in respect of legal aid services arising under Commonwealth legslation, such as bankruptcy, matrimonial causes, immigration and customs cases, broadcasting and television, marketing schemes, Commonwealth employees compensation cases and the like, thereby enabling the legal aid means test to be raised to make it available to a wider section of the community. I ask further: Will he consider using section 96 of the Constitution, if his view is that there is no other head of Commonwealth power to enable such a contribution to be made? 
1 direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. Recently the proposals for the Commonwealth's participation in providing funds for Australian universities and colleges of advanced education for the next triennium were announced. Can the Minister inform the Senate as to the extent to which these proposals have met, firstly, the recommendations of the Australian 
Universities Commission and the Australian Commission on Advanced Education and, secondly, the requests of the universities and colleges themselves? 
Will the AttorneyGeneral issue a warning to the public in relation to the inherent dangers in the use of the so-called do-it-yourself divorce kit being promoted by the Queensland Law Reform Association? If so, will he warn people that by its use they may fail to obtain the full rights and advantages for themselves and their children which are intended and provided by the Commonwealth Matrimonial Causes Act? 
My question, which I direct to the Attorney-General, is further to the question which I directed to him yesterday in relation to do-it-yourself divorce kits. Did the Minister hear a statement on behalf of the Queensland Divorce Law Association made on the programme A.M.' this morning that thousands of such kits have already been distributed to the general public? Does the Minister know whether any petitions based on such kits have been filed with the court registries and, if so, with what result? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science now in a position to state whether it is correct that the Government has accepted and is implementing in their entirety the recommendations of the Australian Universities Commission in relation to funds for Australian universities for the next 3- year period? I asked the Minister about this matter some days ago and now pursue it by asking a further question. 
I ask: Will the AttorneyGeneral explain to me and to the Senate the difference between validating legislation and retrospective legislation or legislation with retrospective operation? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. On 15th August last I asked the Minister a question relating to the Bureau of Transport Economics study of Tasmania's transport disabilities and its progress with the preparation of that report. I also asked the reasons for the Government's attitude to a subsidy or a freight cost equalisation scheme for Tasmanian shipping. I now ask: Is the Minister in a position to supply any further information in relation to this matter? 
 Mr President,  I seek leave to make a very brief statement in amplification of an answer I gave earlier. 
I do not intend to supplement the answer which I have already given. I think that quite enough has been said on the subject and 1 do not intend to take it further at this stage. 
The words which I used were not quite as quoted by  Senator Murphy  and he knows the answer to the question. I am sure that the rest of the Senate is not concerned to have any further information about the matter. 
 I find it somewhat difficult to reply to the last part of  Senator Murphy's  question in which he asks whether there is any truth in rumours that the report will not be presented to the Senate as directed. Quite obviously this Senate Select Committee has been charged with the responsibility of conducting a very wide ranging inquiry, the terms of reference for which were drafted, I understand - they certainly were moved - by  Senator Murphy,  I presume with the full knowledge of the very wide ranging extent to which the inquiry would have to be undertaken. I do not know the rumours to which he is referring. Therefore I cannot comment on them. I can assure him and the Senate that the Committee's report will be presented as soon as possible and that the Committee has continued to work diligently on the preparation of its report and the completion of its inquiry. 
I suggest to  Senator Murphy  that the Committee's report has not been delayed in any . way for any purpose, but there have been some times when less interference of a political party nature might have enabled the Committee to spend more time on the preparation of its report. I do wonder whether the report which appeared recently in one section of the Press is the report to which  Senator Murphy  made reference when he asked me whether some report which had been made recently was accurate. I can only say that there were numerous details which were inaccurate in that Press report. 
The final point which I would make is that in assuring the Senate that the Committee's report will be presented as soon as possible, I point out, as I did in May last, that this has been a very wide ranging inquiry in an area in which similar inquiries in other countries have taken several years to complete, lt is the first inquiry of its kind in Australia, at least since the 1939-45 War. It is an inquiry in an area of very rapidly changing types of activities. It is in an area in relation to which some difficulties were experienced by the Committee in obtaining the evidence which was necessary to enable it to report fully to the Senate in the way in which I have no doubt  Senator Murphy  and the remainder of the Senate would wish it to report. 
I remind  Senator Murphy  that the Committee has already indicated in the statement which I made on 9th December 1971 that it will be recommending the setting up of a Commonwealth regulatory body to supervise the securities industry in Australia. I remind  Senator Murphy  that in an earlier statement, the date of which I do not recall, the then  chairman, Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, reported to the Senate that the Committee had found widespread abuses existing within the industry. I take it that those 2 statements to the Senate constitute a form of report to the Senate in relation to the basic questions which have been raised. The full report required by the Senate is being produced and is receiving a very great deal of time and effort from the members of the Committee and its advisers. I cannot indicate, as  Senator Murphy  and other honourable senators would know, an exact timetable because these matters cannot run to an exact timetable. 
My question, addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, relates to a somewhat similar aspect of the matter raided by  Senator Wheeldon.  Will the Australian Government consider raising in the United Nations the clearly racialist actions of the Government of Uganda, and will it endeavour to ensure that the Asian residents of Uganda who are being expelled will be permitted to take with them their possessions and funds? Is the present expropriation of the belongings and assets of these people a clear infringement of basic human rights? 
I lake exception to the words unconscionable delay' in the introduction to the honourable senator's question. The answer to the question, stated briefly, is that the report of the Select Committee on Securities and Exchange will be presented as soon as possible. I can assure you.  Mr President,  and the Senate that a great deal  t.i  work - voluntary work, paid work by persons other than Committee members, and work by Committee members - has been going on constantly. That work began shortly after (he Committee was set up and shortly after the motion to refer very wide terms of reference to the Committee was carried. Although the Committee has completed public hearings and has made a report to the Senate by way of a statement in December last year, it has been continuing to undertake a number of inquiries which were necessary for the purposes of the preparation of the report. It has received a vast quantity of documentary evidence which it has been necessary to assess for the purposes of the report. The matters related to the areas covered in the public inquiry. 
Through you,  Mr President,  1 point out to  Senator Murphy  a fact which perhaps he has overlooked. There has never been a public inquiry into die very broad areas - I emphasise this - which were referred to the Committee by the Senate on the motion of  Senator Murphy.  Certainly in Australia there has been virtually no inquiry into these areas since 1945. Under its terms of reference the Committee was bound to raise a very wide area of issues in which there have been vast changes. It does take a considerable time lo prepare a report on such a broad field. Perhaps  Senator Murphy,  due to lack of experience or for some other reason, is not aware that to prepare a report on such a broad spectrum as that covered by the terms of reference does involve a great deal of research and compilation work. I take one aspect alone. In Australia there has never been an inquiry into brokers' accounts. The Committee received 5 years brokers' accounts. That alone is a major task of analysis. There was no prior information as to brokers' finances, earnings, capital structure and all the other matters involved. 
In every other country in which such an inquiry has been undertaken, many single areas of investigation alone have taken longer than this Committee has taken so far. For instance, in the United Stales of America the Securities and Exchange Commission started an inquiry more than 2 years ago on one aspect alone - that of brokers' rates. Only now is the policy arising from that inquiry coming forward. I could go on by way of explanation. The question was raised in what I regard as an offensive manner and I have replied at greater length than I might have done had it not been framed in this way. 
 I would be quite certain that is not accurate. 
The words 'as soon as possible' which have been used can mean only as soon as possible within the life of this Parliament. No-one could possibly suggest that he should be given permission not to present a report before the Parliament expires, after 2i years. I do not mind if the  Chairman  of the Committee or someone else says that some details of the report have to be considered. That can be understood. If a simple explanation is made, in which it is said that there are all sorts of technical matters which cannot now be presented, that is understandable. But to endeavour to suggest, as the  Chairman  of the Committee did, that in some way those who are pressing for the presentation of the report- 
 I said that it had not been delayed in any way for any purpose. 
1 know that I sought leave previously; but 1 did not seek leave to make a speech. 1 made a short explanation. I now seek leave to reply to  Senator Murphy. 

 Senator RAE (Tasmania) - I repeat for  Senator Murphy's  benefit and for the benefit of other honourable senators what I said in answer to the question. I quote it from the Hansard typescript, which I have before me: 
I suggest to  Senator Murphy  that the Committee's report has not been delayed in any way for any purpose, but there have been some times when less interference of a political party nature may have- enabled the Committee to spend  more  time on the preparation of its report. 
Quite obviously,  Senator Murphy  is totally inexperienced in what is involved in the preparation of a complicated committee report. He is very experienced in moving for wide ranging inquiries to be undertaken by Senate committees, but he is not particularly experienced in participating in the work that is involved in them. 
 I am quite prepared to put my sitting days and committee reports against  Senator Murphy's  any day. What is involved here is the consideration of the nature of the report that is to be presented. For  Senator Murphy  to suggest, as he did, 
I believe the day after the judgment in the Rocla Pipes case was given, that an instant report should be- 
1 use the phrase 'instant report' because it is typical of the sort of approach  Senator Murphy  adopts to matters of great political importance which require proper and full consideration rather than the sort of consideration that is apparent when we listen to some of the things that are suggested. I suggest that this was a typical example of that. What was requested from members of the Committee was that they abdicate entirely the responsibility given to them by the Senate to prepare a full, studied report covering the areas in the terms of reference, which I will now read out in greater detail than did  Senator Murphy.  He conveniently omitted some of the areas. The terms of reference were:   . . to inquire into and report upon the desirability and feasibility of establishing  a  securities and exchange commission either alone or in cooperation with the States and the powers and functions necessary for such a commission to enable it to act speedily and efficiently against manipulation of prices, insider trading and such other improper or injurious practices as the Committee finds have occurred or may occur . . . 

 Senator Murphy was responsible for the preparation of those terms of reference. They involve the Committee not only in reporting a yes or no answer to the fundamental question but in going on to say what are the powers and functions necessary for such a commission to enable it to act speedily and efficiently against a variety of practices and abuses which may have been taking place in the securities industry in Australia. For anyone to think that, because a judgment of the High Court is given one day, the next day a committee can prepare an instant report covering all these matters is ludicrous. 
I thank  Senator Byrne.  To say that a committee should bring down recommendations with some detail but leaving out all the supporting evidence surely would result in the committee producing something of little value either to the 
Senate or to the Government. The point of  Senator Murphy's  question to me last September and the point of his argument today is that the Committee will delay the introduction of legislation by delaying the production of its report. But I ask: How is the Government to legislate in relation to such a comprehensive area and such an important area, if it has no report covering the detail of what are the practices, functions and powers of the commission? 
I remind  Senator Murphy  that, in relation to the fundamental questions asked of the Committee, I have indicated already today that a report has been presented to the Senate in which the Committee has said that it is unanimously of the view that there should be a securities and exchange commission. The words used were 'a Commonwealth regulatory body' although the terms of reference sought a securities and exchange commission. The Committee said that there should be such a body. It had found that there were abuses. Various types of improper practices were taking place. I would have thought that was exactly what  Senator Murphy  asked for, if he wanted something by way of a very limited report. That report was given in December last year. He made no reference to it when he spoke earlier this day. I simply draw attention to the fact that he was not altogether full in giving his sequence of the events, because he did omit the May statement, he did omit the December statement and he did omit part of the answers to questions. 
I continue simply to indicate that this Committee has worked extremely well. I am proud to have been a member of this Committee. I am proud to have been able to participate in the work that it has done. I hope that when it can present a report I will be equally proud of the report that it presents. I look forward to the Committee being able to continue to do the work it set out to do and which it has done with cohesiveness and co-operation, without being sniped at from the sidelines by  Senator Murphy. 
Sitting suspended from 12.48 to 2.15 p.m. 
My remarks have been preceded by a personal explanation from  Senator Bonner.  1 feel that is perhaps a good way to commence to address myself to this subject because it is perfectly clear that the whole of the atti- tude adopted by the Opposition in relation to this matter is a sham and an opportunity for vulgar abuse, personal abuse and totally unfounded comment. That we should have had to spend so much time debating a question which I would have thought in the circumstances would be regarded by any responsible Party as a matter which was so obviously in need of immediate attention shows the attitude of the Opposition. In the interests of the people of the Australian Capital Territory and of the other Territories of the Commonwealth which may be affected, I would have thought that the Opposition would have done what is could to expedite some action to provide for the people of those areas a set of laws which at the moment are in doubt. 
But what does the Opposition wish to do? Its members wish to talk about something to do with the United Nations, something to do with human rights but nothing to do with the human rights.  Senator Keeffe,  of the people of the Australian Capital Territory; nothing to do with their rights to have a body of laws available to them to protect them, to provide their rights for them, to provide protection from the crimes which may otherwise be committed against them and to provide the organisation of their business affairs, such as hire purchase, and matrimonial affairs, such as legal aid, together with all the other matters which have been referred to already in this debate as coming within the area of the rights and privileges provided by the ordinances and regulations which at the moment are subject to doubt in respect of the people of the Australian Capital Territory and the other Territories. But, oh no; the Opposition is not concerned with them. 
We have heard concern expressed by  Senator Keeffe  and others on questions which are totally irrelevant to the major question before the Senate. That major questiion is whether, having found that there is a very minor defect in the procedure which has been adopted in this country for 32 years in the form of notification in the Commonwealth Gazette, we should correct that defect to provide a body of law for the Commonwealth Territories. That is the question. It is not a question to do with the Aboriginal embassy or whether the rights of Australian Aborigines are being infringed in some way. lt is not an opportunity to throw abuse at  Senator Bonner,  to whom I pay tribute for the work he has done on behalf of the Aboriginal people of Australia as well as on behalf of the rest of the Australian population. 

 Senator Bonner, unlike some others, does not distinguish between races in the way in which some members of the Labor Party are prepared to adopt a racial approach to their attitudes in relation to these matters. I deplore the introduction of a racial approach to the problems of the people of Australia, whatever the colour of the skin of those people may be or whatever their origins may be. They are Australian people whether they come from Greece or South Africa or whether their ancestors were born in Australia before white man visited the country or whether they came from Timbucktoo. If they are residents of Australia, they are Australians and should not be looked at from the point of view advocated by  Senator Keeffe  and others as being entitled to some distinction in their rights in comparison with the rights available to others. 1 think that what the Labor Party is doing in relation to this matter has been well covered by a number of speakers on this side of the chamber. I wish particularly to adopt what  Senator Durack  has said and briefly in support of his remarks to look at what the amendment proposes. The Bill provides validation for what is a very minor point of defect in the procedure adopted by succeeding Australian governments, be they Liberal, Labor, or Liberal Party-Country Party coalitions as has been the case now for 23 years; and long may that situation continue. That procedure is not something novel. The suggestion that the Attorney-General has been in some way deficient is shown up for the sham that it is when we look at the Hansard of last night and see what  Senator Murphy  said. As appears at page 753 of Hansard  Senator Murphy  was making out the case that the Attorney-General should have been warned that a point of this sort was likely to be taken, that there was some reason to have suspicion as to whether there was a defect in the form of notification that had been used for the past 32 years.  Senator Murphy  said: 
I  well recall being associated with a case in the 
Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory several years ago where this very complaint was made. The attention of the Government should have been drawn to it. As a matter of common sense and regard for the rights of citizens, the Government should have cleaned up the procedure. 
I asked by way of interjection: 'What was the decision of the court?'  Senator Murphy  continued: 
You can make your own speech, senator. My recollection of the matter is that the court thought that it was satisfactory in the sense of not breaching the law. 
It hardly supports the view being put by  Senator Murphy  at that time that the Government should have been warned that there were some defects when the court itself, according to his recollection, found that there was not a defect. When we look at the sort of case put forward about this being retrospective legislation we find that the Attorney-General, by way of answer to a question by me at question time yesterday and by way of statement in the debate which has taken place, pointed to the difference between retrospective legislation and validating legislation. This, clearly, is validating legislation, lt is not retrospective legislation in the normal sense of retrospective legislation. 
Perhaps I could repeat the difference between the 2 types of legislation because it seems to have escaped a number of senators who have addressed themselves to this question. Where there has been a body of law of one sort or another which people have believed was valid legislation, which people have acted under and acted upon, and subsequently it is found there has been some defect in that legislation, it is, as has been pointed out. particularly by  Senator Durack,  common throughout the parliaments of this country and other countries that action is taken to validate the acts of people taken under what everyone, until the date of the decision of the court, believed was valid legislation. 
If we take the example of a government of the same party as  Senator Murphy  who has just interjected - the Labor Government in Tasmania - apparently that is the attitude which is adopted, because not only in relation to the matter which I have mentioned - the validating of the action of the HydroElectric Commission which possibly had infringed the penal sections of the National Parklands Act in Tasmania by continuing unauthorised activities in a protected area, but also on other occasions the Tasmanian Government has taken similar action, lt has waited until Parliament has risen to introduce delegated legislation, regulations which had been subject to debate within the Parliament. The 65 miles per hour speed limit was one such instance. The Government waited until the Parliament rose at Christmas time to introduce the regulations. The matter had been fully debated in the Parliament and, the Government not having succeeded in relation to one disallowance, waited until the Parliament rose and introduced the measure with the full knowledge that the Parliament would not be able to sit again for several months to disallow the regulation which the Government had just introduced. That is the sort of action which has been taken by the Labor Government in Tasmania. 
In relation to the criminal law I have, so far as I can recall, recollection of validating legislation being taken in relation to traffic regulations and other types of regulations such as that. There was a recent one, an amendment to validate in a case which I know very well because the amendment was taken after I had put up the submission and before the Court's decision was given. An amendment was made by the Labor Government in Tasmania to correct the defect. That is perhaps an answer to  Senator Murphy.  Perhaps I could now go on to the amendment which states: 
Nothing in this Act affects in any way the rights and liabilities in civil and criminal law of persons charged with offences - 
Then follow these glorious words:  arising out of incidents outside Parliament House, Canberra, on Thursday, 20th July 1972, and Sunday, 23rd July 1972, where those charges or incidents arise out of or are related to the purported notification in the Gazette of 20th July 1972 of the Trespass on Commonwealth Lands Ordinance 1972. 
What on earth does that mean? Perhaps that is the first question we should consider. Already there has been some debate in relation to that. Quite obviously one of the things it could mean is that if someone were charged with a traffic offence, with driving under the influence or driving negligently and knocking someone down, or even if there were a civil action arising out of a motor vehicle accident which might have occurred in the vicinity of the events referred to in the amendment, all those things could be covered in the same sort of way as the Labor Party would protect ils friends and supporters by putting the unions above the law. It is similar in its construction to the type of legislation which was proposed and Which has been supported on various occasions in this chamber by the Australian Labor Party. There is a clear attempt to be able to provide selectively for its friends but to disregard entirely the interests of others. In relation to putting unions above the law, I find it necessary to dwell for a moment on the similarity between the type of approach adopted there of saying that in relation to any civil or criminal action which might arise out of something connected with an industrial dispute - for instance, someone driving his car past the Building Workers Union celebrations in Sydney- 
There is a similarity of approach. 
I know that the honourable senator may have some difficulty in understanding the relevance, but I shall continue to make the point that I made a moment ago, that there is a similarity of approach between putting unions above the law and putting some of the people whom the Labor Party not only encouraged but probably instigated into actions which have led them into the sort of trouble in which they eventually found themselves. There is a clear similarity because the sort of action that is taken is designed to put union members above the law and to take away the rights of other people in relation to what happens during an industrial dispute - in other words, to encourage lawlessness without any sort of responsibility. If a union secretary decides to take action in the streets of Sydney to stir up an industrial dispute and someone is injured or a car is damaged and overturned in the riot that takes place, according to the Labor Party no action could be taken. So, too would the Labor Party impose on the people of the Australian Capital Territory a similar type of provision in relation to the Trespass on Commonwealth Lands Ordinance where it wishes to ensure that its friends are not liable to either criminal or civil action arising out of what happened on 20th and 23rd July. The similarity of the selective attitude of the Labor Party in respect of both these matters is a matter which I believe is important for the Senate to bear in mind when it is considering this amendment, because it is so typical. The Labor Party looks after its friends; it selectively distinguishes between those who are to be given rights and those who are not. 
That is the inane sort of remark that I would expect from you, senator. 
I could reply, senator, in a way which I do not think would serve the purpose of either the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange or the Senate with any benefit whatever. I shall not reply to that interjection other than simply to say that I flatly deny the imputation. I challenge you,  Senator McClelland,  to say that outside this chamber. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  Order! The Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange has nothing to do with this piece of legislation. 
Let us go back and look at the amendment, the selective amendment. the amendment designed to help friends. Perhaps behind it there was some intent to influence people but 1 doubt it. I should think it was put up only to win friends or to help friends. Obviously its effect would relate to the people who were engaged in what apparently were unlawful activities except for the fact that there was some defect in the notification of a large number of ordinances. It would protect them from the normal consequences of their action. 1 think it is relevant to bear in mind what 1 believe the Attorney-General has already said, that is, that the people charged with any offences arising out of the incidents on 20th and 23rd July are not charged under the Trespass on Commonwealth Lands Ordinance. They are charged with offences which, in every sense of the word, would have been offences at any time irrespective of some defect relating to the Trespass on Commonwealth Lands Ordinance. They are charged with assault, with using indecent language and with using threatening langauge, or changes similar to that which have nothing whatsoever to do with the Trespass on Commonwealth Lands Ordinance. It is stretching the imagination to suggest that we should give protection to those people for that type of activity and, presumably, even go further and give protection in respect of civil wrongs which they may have committed during that time and deprive other people of any rights they may have in any action for assault. Yet the Australian Labor Party would have us take that action. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)  - Order! During debate it is possible oft times for people to make reference to some situation which can give point to their argument and which relates to the legislation before the Senate. The thing is that honourable senators should not get too wide. They should confine their remarks as much as possible to the legislation before the chamber. 
It is unfortunate that apparently  Senator Bishop  was not listening to what was going on because he was about 5 minutes behind time. I had passed from what he referred to but I will go back and repeat it if he likes so that he will get a better understanding of it. 
I am talking about the amendment,  Senator McClelland,  which I think is relevant. 
The amendment has been foreshadowed. The point I was making- 
I had not noticed that I was steamrollering anything. I thought that  1  was addressing myself to both the Bill and the foreshadowed amendment and I will continue to do so. I was in the course earlier of pointing out the difference between validating legislation and retrospective legislation, something which apparently entirely escapes  Senator Murphy  and some other honourable senators. Of course, that is not surprising. I have described validating legislation. Turning to retrospective legislation, all members of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances are only too well aware of this type of legislation. It is a matter which concerns them greatly. That Committee of this Senate is specifically responsible for ensuring that in relation to delegated legislation the retrospectivity aspect of it is taken into account when considering whether an ordinance should be allowed or disallowed. I was amazed to hear during the debate on this Bill in another place the complaint made by a member of the Opposition that one of the disgraceful aspects about delegated legislation was that there was no opportunity for it to be reviewed in any way at all. Obviously that person had not only not heard of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, he had never heard of the fact that ordinances are tabled and may be disallowed by the House. I would have thought that that was particularly relevant to consideration of the question of the propriety or otherwise of the Government's use of ordinances and regulations to legislate for the people of the ACT and the other Commonwealth Territories. 
Retrospective legislation is legislation introduced de novo and then its operation is dated back to a period of time before the date on which it becomes operative. That is the sort of thing to which  Senator Durack  referred as having been done by the Labor Party when it was in government in Western Australia. It decided to make its legislation retrospective in operation and adversely affect the interests of an individual, or more than one individual. Retrospectivity is something which always should be approached with caution. I certainly would join with  Senator Murphy  if he were correct in saying that this is a matter in which retrospectivity is the significant element; but it is not. This is validating legislation designed to create the situation which everybody believed to be the situation and which has been the situation since 1940. Therefore the foreshadowed amendment is spurious. It is an attempt to protect the interests of a few friends of the Labor Party. It is typical of the selectivity of the approach of protecting your friends and not protecting the general public which we have come to believe is typical of the approach which we might anticipate in the event of the Labor Party ever being in a position to implement any of its spurious ideas in this Commonwealth Parliament. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport: What is the present situation in relation to the control of dumping at sea at a distance greater than 3 miles from a State coastline? Has the Commonwealth Government been consulted in relation to the proposal for the dumping of waste from the Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australia Ltd in Hobart off the south-east coast of Tasmania? If so, has any decision been reached? If a decision has been reached, with what result? Further, will the Minister inform the Senate of the results of any tests conducted in relation to any damage resulting from the dumping of waste from the North West Acid Pty Ltd plant at Burnie in Bass Strait, some miles off Burnie? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether it is a fact that there is a significant number of international agreements - particularly in relation to drug trafficking - which have been signed on behalf of Australia but which have not yet been ratified by Australia? Can he explain the reasons for the time taken to ratify international agreements? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Can he inform the Senate whether any undertaking has been given by the Australian National Line to provide a shipping service to King Island? If not, can the Minister indicate whether any political party or coalition has made any such undertaking on behalf of the ANL? Further, to what extent and in what circumstances can a government direct the ANL to undertake such a service? 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. I refer to the numerous previous questions relating to the matter of the introduction in Australia of family courts. Can the Attorney-General indicate whether any progress has been made in the consideration of that matter? 
Can the Minister for Works indicate whether the construction of a new Reserve Bank building in Hobart is to proceed? If so, can he say when construction will commence and whether all possible steps have been taken to use local materials to the maximum extent? 
I present the following petition from  6  citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
that, to allow true religious freedom, Government will make no law respecting religion, neither to prohibit the free exercise thereof nor to compel ,ne individual citizen to support the religion of others. 
that nearly all non-State schools are church schools which to a greater or lesser degree promote a specific creed. 
that, about 80 per cent of church schools are Roman Catholic schools, which Roman Catholic spokesmen explicitly state to be extensions of their church. 
that, the use of Commonwealth funds to aid church schools compels :very  taxpayer  to finance the religion of  others whether  he wishes to, or not. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled will restore to the Australian people true religious freedom, which can exist only when Church and State are legally separated both in form and substance. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
by leave - On Wednesday last.  Senator Keeffe  directed a question through you,  Mr President,  to me in my capacity as  Chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. The question concerned the company Nickelfields of Australia (NL) currently in liquidation in Queensland and whether this Committee had ever listed the company for investigation. The answer to this question is that during 1971 there was a very long list of matters which the Committee had drawn up for consideration of types of abuses or trends within the securities industry and for possible future inquiry. Nickelfields was one of a large number of such matters, lt has always been the Committee's practice to select for investigation only examples which appeared to have some novel aspect not previously covered in the Committee's inquiries. I might mention that the Committee has received upwards of 1,000 letters from the general public, as well as from senators and members, requesting it to investigate various matters. The matter of Nickelfields was discussed by the Committee on 1 1 th October 1971 and the Committee has since then, on a number of occasions, sought further information in relation thereto. Such information has been obtained from the Company Registrar, the official liquidators and company officials. 
On the matter of investigation by this Committee, and after full consideration of the Committee's list of possible inquiries, it was decided last December that there was nothing in the evidence available to the Committee to indicate any aspects novel to the inquiry being conducted by the Committee. Bearing in mind that the Committee is not a regulatory authority but rather a Senate Committee with specific terms of reference and bearing in mind the importance of reporting as soon as possible as to the types of abuses, and other matters within its terms of reference, it decided that it was undesirable to undertake new inquiries. Accordingly, I reported to the Senate in my statement of 9th December 1971:   . . that bearing in mind the need to proceed with the preparation of its report, the Committee believes that it should not delay that by continuing its inquiry into these further areas without a specific direction from the Senate so to do. 
That remains the position,  Mr President.  Our time this year has been taken up in verification and clarification of evidence and submissions formally taken by the Committee, in the obtaining of further documentary evidence and with numerous hearings associated with that verification and clarification. It has also been concerned with statistical and economic analysis of stock exchange and stockbroking data, the checking of many facts and figures and the drafting of large sections of the report. The Committee firmly believes that to do otherwise would result in an unsubstantiated and ill-informed report which would do rather less than justice to the important task with which this Committee was charged by the Senate. 
Senate committees can and should fulfil a most important task of finding facts and trends and commenting and making recommendations in relation thereto. My 
Committee trusts that its report when presented will add substantially to the sum total of knowledge of the securities industry in Australia and will enhance the public debate and consideration of the matters included by the Senate in its terms of reference. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. A poll taken in Australia recently showed that education was the No. 1 issue for the forthcoming election. Therefore, I ask the Minister: Is he in a position to tell the Senate whether there has been during the past weekend an important expression of attitude by a significant section of the public towards the Government's education policy and whether that attitude was also expressed towards the so-called needs basis education policy of the Opposition? 
 I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science, ls it a fact that the Tasmanian Minister for Education has informed the Commonwealth Minister for Education and Science that the Tasmanian Labor Government will not participate in the Commonwealth's proposals for provision of assistance to independent schools pursuant to a long term programme? Have any other State governments given any such indication? If this is a fact, will the Tasmanian Labor Government's refusal to co-operate lessen in any way the Commonwealth's programme for assistance to independent schools as well as its very substantial assistance to government schools in the States? 
Is the Attorney-General aware that amendments to the matrimonial causes rules introduced by him for laudable purposes and aims in fact have had the effect in Tasmania of increasing the cost of divorce rather than decreasing it and that the net result will be further delays in people obtaining finality in the solving of problems which arise out of the breakdown of marriage and increasing the cost. 
 My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. I inquire whether his answer to  Senator Greenwood,  criticising the former Attorney-General for not introducing amendments to the matrimonial causes rules during his term of office as Attorney-General, means that the present Attorney-General no longer adheres to the view so strongly urged by him when in Opposition that legislative amendments should not be introduced while a Senate committee is conducting an inquiry into the relevant matter. I therefore ask: Does the Attorney-General recognise that his action in introducing the recent amendments to the matrimonial causes rules is a breach of that principle if that principle was as 1 believe it to have been stated by  Senator Murphy  on a number of occasions? I ask this question in view of the inquiry by the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs into the Matrimonial Causes Act and rules. 
My question is directed, to the Attorney-General. Will he now answer those parts of my question asked yesterday - it was placed on the notice paper - which are both within his own knowledge and require only &lt;a yes or no answer? One part was: 
Is the Attorney-General awus that on 22nd February 1913 the then Acting Prime Minister stated that the Commonwealth Government had decided not to seek leave to intervene in the High Court case involving the question of the constitutional validity of the Tasmanian tobacco tax? 
The other part was: 
Was the Attorney-General consulted prior to the statement being made? 
I ask the Attorney-General whether he  it  able to tell the Senate the approximate date on which the decision was taken that the Commonwealth would seek leave , to intervene in the Tasmanian tobacco tax case? 
.1 ask the Attorney-General whether he can clarify for me one further matter concerning the Tasmanian tobacco tax case. Will the Government, if given leave to intervene, argue that the tax is unconstitutional? 
By way of preface to my question, I say that last Thursday the AttorneyGeneral said he. would endeavour to answer that day my question first asked of him last Wednesday relating to the Tasmanian tobacco tax case, but apparently was not able to do so. I now ask: Will he answer those parts of my question that fall within his own knowledge and require only a yes or no answer? I refer to question No. 53, on the notice paper, parts (1) and (2). Part (1) reads: 
Is the Attorney-General aware that on 22nd February 1973 the then Acting Prime Minister stated that the Commonwealth Government had decided not to seek leave to intervene in the High Court case involving the question of the constitutional validity of the Tasmanian tobacco case. 
The Attorney-General, . in answering a question I asked him a short time ago .. about the- Tasmanian tobacco tax case, said -that since I asked roy first question he had. been- able to have discussions with his colleague, the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Barnard.  He said that  Mr Barnard  had said that the Government had not made any decision on the seeking of leave to intervene in the'. Tasmanian tobacco tax case. I ask the Attorney-General: From his knowledge of what  Mr Barnard  said, is the following a correct quotation of the words used by  Mr, Barnard:  '.  . whatever attitude or action contemplated or taken by the Commonwealth Government would have to follow (he judgment of the High Court'? Will the AttorneyGeneral confirm that, if it is- correct, it displays a complete -misunderstanding of the question involved? 
I again ask the AttorneyGeneral: Will he define for us the meaning which he applies to the word 'racket' as used by him on several occasions in the Senate this afternoon? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Is the Minister taking any, and if so what, steps on behalf of the King Island abattoirs and the farmers of King Island to have the King Island air freight subsidy reintroduced? 
I ask the Attorney-General whether he would define for the Senate the meaning to be given to the word 'racket' as used by him now in answer to 2 questions asked by honourable senators. If he means unlawful actions, will he take steps either to prosecute the offenders or to see that the offenders are prosecuted? If he means simply unethical actions, will he endeavour to have appropriate action taken by the law societies or bar associations in relation to the activities of the people whose actions he has described as rackets? 
My question Ls directed to the Attorney-General. Does the answer which the Attorney-General gave in relation to notification to him of cases of hardship mean that he will provide legal assistance in such cases by the provision of either services or finance? If so, will he make a full statement so that people may know how this will operate? If that is not what is meant, then what is the purpose of providing for reporting cases of hardship to him? 
I ask the Attorney-General to confirm that the answers given by him this week about the Acting Prime Minister and the Tasmanian tobacco tax show the following sequence of events: On or before 20th February a decision was taken by the AttorneyGeneral to seek leave to intervene in that case and a letter was written by him informing the Tasmanian Attorney-General of that decision. On 22nd February- 
I wish to make but a few remarks in relation to this matter because I suggest that it is a matter of some considerable seriousness. There has been on the part of the Opposition a desire to find  out, by way of question, a number of matters related to the matrimonial causes rules which were introduced by the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  earlier this year. I think it would be fair to say that so far the answers which we have received have been flippant, evasive, obfuscating of the search for the real truth in relation to these matters. Specious arguments have been put forward. The real questions have not been answered but there has been a repetition of evasiveness and a repetition of explanation unrelated to the questions. Honourable senators will well recall that there have been occasions when for the second and third time during one day's questioning honourable senators on this side of the chamber have had to ask the same question and ask  Senator Murphy  whether he will please answer the question, but never could they get an answer to it. 

 Senator Murphy was prepared to make an allegation in reply to a question of mine in which I stated by way of preface the situation in relation to Tasmania. I suggested that the situation was that far from reducing the cost of divorce the rules introduced by him would increase the cost of divorce. I suggested that rather than speeding up the hearing of divorces the procedure in relation to the divorces of recipients of legal aid was being retarded. The reply I received from  Senator Murphy  was to the effect that he had no knowledge of the matters that I had raised. He went on to add that I was misleading him and that I was making misstatements. One or other of those things has to be right. Either he has enough knowledge to make that accusation or he was carelessly - in fact, wantonly - making an allegation which he could not substantiate. 1 subsequently handed to  Senator Murphy  a copy of a letter which I had received from the legal aid committee in Tasmania which stated that as a result of the confusion arising out of the introduction of his rules, all legal aid divorce matters were being deferred. 
That was all I said but  Senator Murphy  accused me of misleading him, and he had a copy of the letter. 
 Senator Murphy  may make whatever reply he will, but I simply remind honourable senators that at the time  Senator Murphy  said that he knew nothing of the matters I had raised and he accused me of misleading him. He has a copy of the letter which was the basis of the statement which I made. I simply go on to add that it is fair to say from what  Senator Durack  has said that there is a serious case for  Senator Murphy  to answer. Unless he can give some explanation it appears that he has misled the Senate. He has misled the Senate, firstly, in an answer in which he claimed that the complaint of the Law Graduates Association in New South Wales was related to costs. That was untrue, if the document produced by  Senator Durack  is the document to which  Senator Murphy  was making reference. If there is some other explanation we will be anxious to hear it. 

 Senator Murphy then refused to table the document on the ground that it was a confidential document - a matter between the law graduates and himself and that without their permission it would be improper for him to table it. Again, unless he is referring to some other document, that was untrue. That was a specious, evasive way of getting out of the embarrassing situation in which he found himself, because the document to which  Senator Durack  has made reference and which now has been incorporated in Hansard is a Press statement, as public as can possibly be. If there is no other document, I simply repeat that there is good reason to believe that the Senate was misled. 
I am simply saying that I make no judgment. I raise this question but I pass on very briefly to make a further comment about the question of the new divorce rules and to elaborate upon what I said earlier by way of question when  Senator Murphy  was. shall I say, sufficiently flippant, firstly, to answer that he did not know anything of what I asked and, secondly, to claim that I was misleading him. The fact is that in Tasmania the average cost of divorce has been approximately $240. Of this amount S30 has been for court filing fees and the remainder for legal costs. To save the Dickensian situation to which the Attorney-General made reference in answer to questions, an elected scale of costs is available and this is normally availed of. It cuts out the necessity for drawing bills of costs and all the sorts of expenses to which he referred. That is a procedure which could have been availed of by the Attorney-General. It was introduced in Tasmania as a result of the efforts of the Chief Justice of Tasmania. He tried to streamline divorce and other areas of administration. This has worked well. It has kept down the cost of divorce in Tasmania. 
The situation is that the average divorce is really the average legal proceedings resulting from the breakdown of marriage. It is wrong to call it just divorce if one is talking in detail and with particularity about it. What it is is obtaining a decree nisi and later a decree absolute for dissolution of marriage. Also it is sorting out the problems of custody, access, maintenance, settlement of property and all the other consequences of the breakdown of a marriage and the breakup of a family. The latter matters which I mentioned are by far the most important to the parties from the point of view of dispute and disputation. They are the areas where the parties normally have their real problems and their real fight. This is the part which has now been separated out from the $150 divorce about which the Attorney-General has been speaking. No longer can people in Tasmania say that they can look forward to obtaining a divorce, including all the ancillary matters, for about $240. Rather, the normal thing will be that for $150 they will obtain a decree nisi. There will be a net difference of $60 because once one takes out the $30 fees there is only $210 of what it used to cost. For $60 it is necessary to be able to complete all the other matters in order to do it as cheaply as it was done before. By separating them out extra procedure is involved. The cost of drawing the affidavit is added. 
Let us continue with the argument which I was giving. For an extra $60 one has to prepare a separate application. It is not one which can be prepared along with the divorce petition but a separate application. One has to prepare an affidavit and all the other paraphernalia which goes with this. The aspects which were referred to by  Senator Durack  in the statement which he read about trial by ambush have never been more true. This has introduced the most dastardly aspects of trial by ambush because in a petition a person no longer has to state the facts in support of the grounds. 
Any person who is a respondent to a divorce petition can now be grossly misled into not defending and then, as a result, finding himself seriously disadvantaged when it comes to the time to defend the application. Maybe a father who is very fond of his children is involved. He may be anxious that he be granted free access by the court. Alternatively, he may wish to apply for custody. It may be that the wife is petitioning on the grounds of desertion. She does not have to say what the facts are which she is going to tell the court are the basis of the breakdown of the marriage. But it may very well be that she will put into that affidavit a great many matters which would have been violently disputed by the respondent, a great many matters which could have been proved to be wrong, and a great many matters which go to the question of custody. But this is one of these areas where, under the new rules, confusion reigns supreme. 
The other day a lawyer said to me: 'The clock of law reform has been turned back 20 years'. We are all anxious to see divorce law reform proceed. There is no question that the Opposition supports the principles enunciated by  Senator Murphy.  What we criticise is the demonstrably inefficient way in which he has set about this matter. Accuracies have been pointed out from time to time and we have been accused of nit picking. The whole thing is that in this rush, tear, 'instant Goughie approach to legislation and government we find that we are not getting what  Senator Murphy  wants and what we want. We are getting something which in fact turns the clock back 20 years. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation ascertain from his colleague whether he will take immediate steps to inquire into the estimated cost of converting, and the time required to convert, the Hobart Airport into an international airport so that international flights may provide international travellers with the opportunity to enjoy the very great attractions of the Wrest Point casino, with its international standard accommodation and unsurpassed surrounding scenic attractions? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General and concerns an answer he gave to an earlier question. In respect of the removal of the necessity to pay fees upon the filing of documents in relation to divorce proceedings, I ask: Does the Attorney-General intend to ensure that the State governments are reimbursed for the loss of revenue derived in this respect, which revenue was used to offset the cost of the administration of the divorce laws in Australia? 
The proposal with which the Social Services Bill 1973 deals relates mainly to an increase in the base pension rate of $1.50 a week and some further increases - in some cases substantial - in some unemployment and sickness benefits. The Opposition does not intend to oppose the Bill nor does it intend to delay its passage through the Senate. However, there are some remarks 1 would like to make on it. Some of them relate to clarification which it may be possible to obtain at some stage during the debate. I refer first to the second reading speech of the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  in which he said: 
This Bill has promptly honoured the undertaking of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  made when he delivered the policy speech of the Australian Labor Party. 
The policy speech is then quoted: 
The basic pension rate will no longer be lied to the financial and political considerations of annual budgets. All pensions will be immediately raised - 
I pause there to emphasise the word 'immediately' -   by $1.50 and thereafter, every spring and every autumn, the basic pension rale will be raised by $1.50 until it reaches 25 per cent  of  average weekly male earnings. It will never be allowed to fall below that level.  it becomes a little curious when we read what the Minister said later in his second reading speech as recorded at page 272 of the Hansard record: 
We have made a positive start. Within a few months-  1 emphasise the words 'within a few months' -  we will be taking further action to overcome this thoroughly undesirable situation where social security benefits provide a living standard below a poverty line defined by the researchers who set it at a very austere level 
I simply draw attention to the fact that the promise of the ALP, as enunciated by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his policy speech, was for an immediate increase of $1.50 and thereafter what most people would take to be 2 increases of $1.50 in every year. Now, in March, we have the introduction of a retrospective increase of $1.50 back dated to December which, 1 assume, is the immediate increase promised in the policy speech. We have the indication from the Minister, as I have quoted him, that in a few months time, further steps will be taken. Therefore, I ask whether the Minister will indicate at some stage whether it is proposed that there should be during this autumn session of this year a further increase of $1.50 or whether there will be no such increase. If no increase is to be granted, it may be that many people voted at the last general election upon the basis of misunderstanding. 
One of the good things about this Bill is that it is a reflection of the fact that as a country becomes more affluent it can afford, to do more for people who deserve and who are entitled to assistance out of the public purse. But the thing that underlies, and must underlie, all welfare programs is the continuation of sound economic policy. Sound economic policy must precede improvements in welfare. Without that sound economic policy the possibility of increasing welfare provision to those who need it and those who deserve it is simply not a proposition which a government can entertain. Unsound economic policies now place this country and all pensioners in jeopardy. Already we find that there are indications of gross inflation to take place this year. Already we find indications that with the rate of inflation this year, unless economic policies are changed by the new Government, it will not be possible at the rate proposed ever to achieve a base pension rate of 25 per cent of average weekly male earnings. I hope, and I am sure all honourable senators on this side of the chamber hope, that the Government will realise that some of the matters on which it has embarked already will have a disastrous effect upon the economy unless they can be curbed and unless they can be related further to sound development and the curtailment of inflation.  I  am sure that neither the Minister nor any other honourable senator opposite would deliberately set out to make a situation in which pensioners were not able to achieve the proposed 25 per cent of average weekly male earnings. But this is something which I warn honourable senators opposite will happen, in my view, unless some of the economic policies are changed. 1 also make the point that the selected basis of 25 per cent of average weekly male earnings is something which in many ways is unfortunate. The trouble is that average weekly male earnings fluctuate considerably from time to time during the year and, therefore, they are not as reliable a basis for varying pension rates as would be a relationship to national income per capita. Having said that I make no further comment about this proposal, the general nature of which I do not take any exception to, however unfortunate it may be that this method was used. 
There is one other matter to which I should like to draw attention, and I ask the Minister to give some attention to it. The table which was produced by the Minister is, on the face of it, misleading. I am not suggesting that it was made misleading intentionally, but the table does fail to take into account the supplementary assistance allowance for rent of $4 a week when comparing the amount of the pension and the poverty line as promulgated by Professor Henderson and his assistants at the Melbourne institute of Applied Economic and Social Research. It appears on the face of it that the table which was produced by the Minister has failed to take that fact into account and is therefore out by $4 a week. If there is some other explanation then undoubtedly we would be interested to hear it. 
There is another matter in the Minister's second reading speech to which I should like to direct his attention in order to seek some clarification. The Minister stated, as appears on pages 17 and 18 of the circulated copy of his speech:  1 am informed that, on this occasion, having regard to the retrospective nature of the legislation applying to the increases in pensions and the many time-critical administrative tasks which need to be performed, the earliest practical dates for the Department of Social Security to pay pensions at the increased rates will be 22nd March in the case of age and invalid pensions and 27th March in the case of widows' pensions. In this regard, officers of that Department are working on the basis that the Bill  will  receive an early passage through both Houses. 
I add, as I indicated earlier, that the Opposition certainly will not do anything to prevent that from coming about, but I should like to know whether it is proposed that the payments to be made on 22nd March and 27th March respectively will include the retrospective payments which are provided for in the Bill, or whether those payments will be made at some later date. We believe that some clarification of that is necessary. It is just a simple matter which no doubt the Minister can clear up so that people's expectations will be confirmed or people will know where they stand as to when they can expect to receive the payments. 
Some of the more gross mis-statements, allegations and assertions which appear in the Minister's speech are merely assertions of political opinion rather than suggestions in fact, and I do not propose to deal with them. On behalf of the Opposition I simply take exception to some of the completely unsubstantiated and wild remarks that have been made. I draw attention to one paragraph of the second reading speech, on page 4 of the circulated copy, in which the Minister stated: 
The bulk of the unemployed today are the innocent social casualties of the disastrous economic policies of the last Government and its 1971 Budget. 
I suggest that that is a preposterous statement in the light of the recently published unemployment figures. The full benefits flowing from the former Government's 1972 Budget and its sound economic planning have showed up completely the falsity of the assertions which were made at the time of the election, that there would be 200,000 unemployed in Australia. We were going to have disastrous unemployment, according to those who put forward the Labor Party's case before the last election. That assertion has now been shown to be untrue by 100 per cent. Labor spokesmen doubled what has been the actual number of persons unemployed in Australia. It would hardly be possible to suggest on any basis of reason that the unemployed at the present time, whose numbers are not significantly different from the percentage of the working population who were unemployed in 1969 or 1970, could be described as being the innocent social casualties of the economic policies of the former Government and its 1971 Budget. 
It reminds me a little of the question which  Senator O'Byrne  asked  Senator Bishop  recently.  Senator O'Byrne  referred to the remarkable increase in wool prices, the fall in unemployment and a number of other things and inquired whether these were all the result of the new Government's activities - at least that was the impression which one might have gained. One could say  Senator 0'Byrne  was even suggesting to  Senator Bishop  that the new Government should claim credit for the rain which has broken the drought in Australia. The other suggestion was equally as preposterous as that. If the present Government can successfully claim credit for the rain, then perhaps I would be prepared to give it credit for the drop in the unemployment figures. Otherwise, it is simply preposterous to suggest that a government of less than 3 months could, within 2 months, have made such substantial changes. 
We all know that during the period of what was sometimes known as the 'dumbvirate' the Labor Government was able to effect all sorts of changes because they did not have the squabbling and fighting which has been going on since the Government has consisted of more than 2 men. But not withstanding even that fortnight, I do not think the Government can possibly claim to be responsible for the fall in unemployment figures. I think I can say proudly that it is only as a result of the overall sound economic management of the Liberal-Country Party Government in the past 23 years that this country is able to provide the extra $126m a year needed to grant the increases provided for and welcomed by the Opposition in this Bill. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Bearing in mind that the ship 
Straitsman' was built especially for the service from King Island to Tasmania and Victoria, will the Minister lay on the table all documents relating to the negotiations between the owners of the ship 'Straitsman' or their representatives, including any liquidator or receiver, and the Government in respect to the reintroduction of that ship into the service for which it was built at a cost of $1.5m? 
My question, addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, arises out of the debate on the Social Services Bill which was passed by the Senate last night. I now ask questions which the Minister was not able to answer yesterday. Can the Minister indicate whether there will be an increase of $1.50 in the base pension rate introduced during this coming autumn? Will the increased rates of pension be made retrospective to December and included in the first cheques payable in relation to age and invalid pensions on 22nd March next and in respect of widows pensions on 27th March next? 

 Senator DOUGLAS MCCLELLANDMight I say at the outset that I would have liked to reply to the matters raised in the second reading debate on the Social Services Bill introduced last week by the Government and which was debated in the Senate last night. However, because of the importance of getting early royal assent to the Bill in order that benefits could be paid, I deliberately cut short my reply to the speeches on the motion for the second reading of the Bill. The increase of $1.50 in the base pension rate which was alluded to by the honourable the Prime Minister in his recent Federal election policy speech, to be introduced in each autumn and spring session of Parliament until the base rate amounted to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings, was granted. The first part of it, namely the introduction of a measure of this nature in the autumn session, was dealt with in that Bill. It can be confidently expected by those involved that, as we honoured that part of our undertaking so too, in the spring session, there will be a similar and consequential amendment to the Act. 
In relation to the second part of the honourable senator's question which referred to retrospectivity, that Bill brings the rate of unemployment and sickness benefits up to the same level of pensions. It makes the payments retrospective to the first payment after 2nd December, which is 5th December in the case of widows and 14th December in the case of age and invalid pensioners. Unemployment and sickness benefits will start from the date on which the Bill receives royal assent. The earliest practical date for the Department of Social Security to pay pensions at the increased rate is 22nd March in the case of age and invalid pensions, and 27th March in the case of widows pensions. I am advised that the retrospective payments will be made to those 2 categories on the dates I have mentioned. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is it a fact that one or more reports have been received by the Government relating to the investigation of the suitability of the ship 'Straitsman' for the King Island shipping service, to the appropriate type of ship to provide for the service and to considerations relating to the viability of a shipping service to King Island? If so, will the Minister make those reports available to all interested persons, particularly the residents of King Island, by tabling them in this chamber? 
 I move: 
That  the  Senate take  note of the paper. 
I simply indicate that the Opposition wishes to have the opportunity to make some references to this very important matter. It is a matter of great importance to the whole of Australia. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted. 
 Mr President,  there are 4 Bills which are related to the Repatriation Bill 1973, which is Order of the  day  No. 1,  and  I would suggest to the Minister in charge of the Bill that we should have a cognate debate covering all 5 Bills which are listed as Orders of the day Nos 1 to 5. All the matters are related and the Opposition believes the measures  could  be taken together. 
I do not wish to delay the Senate for any length of time but I do wish to make it quite clear that as another Tasmanian senator I join  Senator Wright  and  Senator Lillico  in expressing concern at the situation of the apple and pear industry in Tasmania. I do not suggest that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  is unconscious of the problem but I do suggest that perhaps he may have some problems in being able to ileal with the situation adequately when the approach of the Government to the management of the economy is that a pittance shall be meted out - as if it were a social welfare payment - to an industry which is struck down as a result of an economic decision of the Government. I do not challenge that decision which related to revaluation. But as a result of that decision this industry was entitled to real consideration. Instead of that we have the sort of approach which is a social welfare approach. 
Almost within a week or so of that decision a decision was made to give 4 weeks annual leave to all Commonwealth public servants. I do not wish to be taken as suggesting in any way that Commonwealth public servants are not entitled to be well treated within the community - but I emphasise within the community'. Everyone knows that the 4 weeks annual leave given to public servants in this way will spread throughout general employment. But will it spread to primary industry, to the small self-employed man who has been struggling for years in Tasmania to keep his orchard going? He would like to get to the stage where he had to work only 80 hours a week - this situation applies to a lot of the orchardists. He would like to get to the stage where he would be able to look forward to having annual holidays and actually pay for them. But the Government has not adopted an attitude which is related to fair compensation for the disability suffered as a result of its acting in the interests of the overall population in making a revaluation. Instead of adequately compensating those who suffer it adopts a social service approach. If one can show that one has filed a bankruptcy petition one gets a pittance out of the Government. 
The plight of the industry is such that I would imagine that Senators Devitt, Townley, Wriedt, Poke and O'Byrne would be prepared to join with the honourable senators who have already spoken tonight. I believe that this is a situation where the interests of a Slate are vitally concerned. The interests of a State, as represented by its honourable senators in this chamber, should be heard and should be met. I suggest that this is an occasion when those towns of the apple growing areas of Tasmania which honourable senators from Tasmania and many other honourable senators in this chamber know so well are under a threat of death. This could be overcome as a result of Government action but it will be brought to fruition as a result of Government inaction. Many things can be done. I shall not hold the Senate tonight. I simply express briefly the concern which I hold along with other Liberal senators from Tasmania. 
I am sure that the other senators from Tasmania - if they are to be heard - will urge the Minister, who fortunately is a Tasmanian and no doubt has the interests of this Tasmanian industry at heart, to take adequate steps to prevent the sort of situation mentioned by  Senator Wright, Senator Lillico  and myself, from happening to these towns and people. There are many small, self-employed people. Sometimes they employ a few other people on their orchards for at least part of the year. They are providing employment and an income for themselves. They are keeping the rural towns going. They are keeping going the fabric of a society which has developed over a century. Very soon unless something happens this will be going for good. 
Referring to the statement made by the Attorney-General this afternoon, I ask him: Will he apply to the violence and terrorism instigated by certain trade unions, such as the Building Workers Industrial Union, principles similar to those which he proposes to apply in relation to the alleged but as yet not proven violence by certain Croatians within Australia? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  -  Senator Rae,  in view of my failure to recognise  Senator Milliner,  will you yield? 
Yes, although I could perhaps say that I have been on my feet more often than has  Senator Milliner. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT - I suggest that you are younger. 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General and follows his answers to earlier questions which related to the presence of Commonwealth police officers numbering, as I total them, 27 plus 3 who accompanied him - 30 in all - in the headquarters of ASIO- 
Give or take some. This was in the premises of the .Melbourne headquarters of ASIO. How did those Commonwealth police officers who were sent to seal safes, cabinets and containers gain entry into the premises of ASIO in Melbourne and at whose direction did they enter the premises of ASIO? 
 The matters raised by the former AttorneyGeneral,  Senator Greenwood,  in relation to what has transpired in the past  12  days and particularly today are matters, I believe, of great importance not only to the Senate but also to the people of Australia as to whether they do not give rise to real concern for the actions of one man whose assumption of power has been extreme. It has been an extreme assumption of power which he has not been prepared to explain either to honourable senators in answer to their questions or to the people of Australia. As  Senator Greenwood  was making his point - I take up from where he left off - why is it that an Attorney-General of Australia should require the Regional Director of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation to be called to his office in the middle of the night? I remind honourable senators that it happened to be on the night that the Parliament rose for a period of  12  days before it met again. I remind honourable senators that therefore there was no occasion on which honourable senators or members of the House of Representatives would be able to ask questions in relation to what had happened for a period of  12  days. Was that just a coincidence? Is this a matter which requires explanation by the AttorneyGeneral?  I  suggest that it is. Why should it be a coincidence that it happened on that night? Why call the Regional Director of ASIO out of his bed in the middle of the night to answer questions, produce documents or whatever may have been the case? These are inexplicable matters concerning which the Attorney-General refused to answer or evaded answering numerous questions this afternoon. 
We have an extraordinary situation in which for some reason arising out of those discussions or arising out of what happened on that night, there were allegations in the Press that the Regional Director of ASIO had been kept prisoner for  4  or  5  hours or more. We do not know whether that, in fact, happened because we did not get an opportunity to ask adequate questions in relation to it. The giving of answers to those questions that were asked was evaded. But we find, as Sena tor Greenwood has said, that  Senator Murphy  did admit and state quite categorically and positively that he had not experienced any failure to co-operate on the part of ASIO. There are some inexplicable matters which, so far as my reading of the Press has gone, are not- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order!  Senator Rae,  you are out of order. You are not speaking in accordance with my earlier ruling. Your remarks are now traversing the matter that will be debated at a later stage in accordance with the notice of motion that has been given. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy President.  Certainly, it was not my intention in any way to offend against your ruling. I thought that I was carefully keeping away from the matters which were contained in the statement. I was dealing with the evenf.3 which occurred more than a week ago - during the week before last - in relation to the actions of the Attorney-General in what has been described by the Press as a 'raid' upon ASIO, followed by a further raid upon ASIO. I would like to comment that in relation to that the Attorney-General has told us in answers to questions that he received cooperation, but notwithstanding that, he went to ASIO headquarters in Melbourne having sent before him some  27  officers from the Commonwealth Police Force apparently to take possession of the building and certain of the contents of the building and to seal files to preserve them. 
Why should the files require preserving? From whom they were being preserved is something we do not know and the AttorneyGeneral will not tell us. What is so secret about all this? Has secrecy gone to the head of the Attorney-General? Is there some aspect of his cops and robbers role of the past  10  days which has brought to him a desire to abdicate completely any idea of assuming the role of the leader of open government and which has caused him rather to assume the role of the leader of closed government? Why should it be necessary to bypass the Australian director of ASIO,  Mr Barbour?  Why should it be necessary for the Commonwealth Police Force to take possession of the ASIO building in Melbourne rather than simply directing or requesting the director,  Mr Barbour,  to seal the files? Obviously, he had some reason for not wishing to contact that man. Why is this? No explanation has come from the Attorney-General. There are many questions which require urgent answers. This country was refused a request made properly by the Australian Democratic Labor Party for the Parliament to be called together urgently to be informed as to why these extraordinary actions were being taken. They are actions unprecedented in the history of Australia since the Eureka Stockade. I am glad that that remark has brought forward from Government supporters who are. interjecting a reawakening of their conscience in relation to this matter. No doubt, they will be able to see the significance of the sorts of points that I make - 'that when power is used in a manner which is irresponsible and arrogant then it brings forth a resistance which is right and proper in circumstances in which people question and argue as to whether that power should be used in that way. Presumably, we will find the Attorney-General now turning on his former compatriots who organised violent demonstrations. 
Yes, I do. We will find him turning on his former compatriots who organised violent demonstrations during the period of the Moratorium campaign, during the period of the violence which was associated with the visit of  President  Johnson to Australia, during the violence which was associated with various union activities in Australia and during the various other instances of violence which Australia has known in the past 3, 4 or 5 years. Perhaps we will find the Attorney-General sharply rebuking these people and taking action in respect of the declarations by persons such as the very well known leading members of the Australian Labor Party who advocated and organised violence in those circumstances. These are the things which obviously not only are we not permitted to ask questions about but concerning which it is the intention of the supporters of the Government to drown out free speech and prevent me and other members of the Opposition from being heard. Why should not we be entitled to say what we wish to say in the interests of the people of Australia and in the interests of the good government of this country? There are many aspects of the alarm which has spread in this country as a result of the actions of the Attorney-General. Let us have a look for a moment at some of the things that have been said by various authors. One of them headlined his article: 'Frightening game of cops and spies'. He said: 

 Senator Lionel Murphy's personally led police raids on ASIO in Canberra and Melbourne seems so outrageous that it is tempting to turn to parody for light relief. 
Perhaps it would be of interest to divert for just a moment and simply comment that if someone would reestablish that committee perhaps there would be a report to talk about. But it has been out of existence for a month, not through any fault of mine. 
It is not through any fault of mine. Let me continue to quote this author:  1 have visions of  Mr Lance  Barnard leading a  squad of military police in an assault on the Defence Department to assert his authority over  Sir Arthur  Tange. 
Or of  Dr Jim  Cairns at the head of the column of umbrella-brandishing bureaucrats physically taking over control of an independent-minded Tariff Board. 
The possibilities for flamboyant, score-settling ministerial sallies are abundant and much more intriguing that the pallid fare concocted by our TV script writers. 
But seriously, the implications of  Senator Murphy's  unprecedented actions must arouse the greatest concern in those who value the nation's security. 
As has already been said, Australia's position in relation to the remainder of the world has been seriously jeopardised. But what is more important than Australians' faith in their own security organisation which has been permitted 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  -  Senator, you  cannot refer to security organisation. 
I am sorry,  Mr Deputy President.  I certainly do not intend to refer in any way at all to anything which is to do with Croatian terrorism in Australia. But the activities of  Senator Murphy  in his raids upon the headquarters of ASIO have drawn forth from a number of people statements of alarm, statements of concern, statements requiring explanation. If this chamber has to do nothing else until eventually  Senator Murphy  deigns to explain to us and to the Australian people, then I for one will want to see it continue to press the question: Why did  Senator Murphy  do it? What caused him to take the unprecedented action which he has taken? What justification has he for it? Was it in Australia's interest or was it contrary to Australia's interest? Can the Australian people look forward to having a separated security intelligence organisation and a separated police force, or will we find that we have a welding and a melding into one organisation of some sort of political police under the direction of one man? These are the sorts of questions that concern people in Australia. These are the sorts of questions which required answers. 
I ask the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate who today is representing the Attorney-General whether it is a fact that he has stated today an interest in exposing all information relating to acts of alleged violence and terrorism and otherwise against the security of Australia. If this is his view, will he ascertain whether the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation has any information, documents, files and reports in relation to the alleged activities of, firstly, Wilfred Burchett and, secondly, the Federated Ship Painters and Dockers Union and certain of its members including some now missing or murdered? If such information does exist, will the Minister either directly or through his colleague the Attorney-General take steps to have that information tabled in the Senate? If he will not, is the Minister's interest selective? 
 I ask the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate: Is it a fact that the Government today has expressed an interest in exposing all information relating to acts of alleged violence or terrorism or acts otherwise against the security of Australia? If this is so, will the Minister ascertain whether the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation has any information, documents, files and reports in relation to the alleged activities of, firstly, Wilfred Burchett and, secondly, the 
Federated Ship Painters and Dockers Union and certain of its members, including some now missing or murdered? If such information does exist, will the Minister either directly or through his colleague the Attorney-General take steps to have that information tabled in the Senate? And I added: Or Is the interest of the Minister selective? 
My question is addressed to the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate. As the Minister has stated today in answer to a question by  Senator Carrick  that the extreme security measures taken during the visit of the Yugoslav Prime Minister to Canberra were very necessary, will the Minister tell us the full facts upon which his statement was based? 
My question is directed to the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the fact that the Minister refused to answer my question which sought the facts that made 'very necessary' the extreme security measures of last week will the Minister state whether it is his view that a Minister should not disclose information relating to security operations in Australia, particularly when the only apparent reason is the vilification of a former Minister, or is  Senator Willesee  being selective in his views? 
What was the exact purpose of the Attorney-General in making his visit to the Canberra headquarters of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation on the night of 15th-16th March? By what method and in what circumstances did he, to use his words, 'find at the ASIO Canberra office' the useful information to which he has referred in earlier answers to questions this afternoon? 
In addressing my question to the Attorney-General I remind him that in an earlier answer to a question about the exact purpose of his visit to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation offices he referred to being dissatisfied with the information which was being supplied to him. I now ask: What was the nature and cause of that dissatisfaction? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. Was there any particular event which precipitated the decision by the Attorney-General to make his personal search of the records at the Canberra office of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation on the night of 15th- 16th March last? If so, what was that event? 
We have heard a great deal in a variety of ways about 2 very fundamental subjects. The first aspect is the role, importance and function of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation which is known as ASIO. It is a body about which the Australian public knew little, thought little and cared little until  Senator Murphy  decided, for reasons best known to himself, to embark upon what has now become known as Murphy's melodrama. The 
* See page 931. second aspect is the question of the credibility and the acceptability of a statement made by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  in relation to this matter. 
I shall deal first with the second matter and then return to the first, not because I think the first matter is unimportant but because I think that the second matter has been the major matter dealt with by a number of speakers this afternoon and this evening.  Senator Greenwood  made a restrained statement which did not contain the adjectives, the extremism and the absurdities of the statement made by the Attorney-General,  Senator Murphy,  but rather dealt with the situation fact by fact. If I were to criticise my colleague, the former Attorney-General,  Senator Greenwood,  I would criticise him for one thing only, and that is that he has behaved as an Attorney-General should rather than as a politician tends to do. Opposed to that we have seen the most disgraceful episode known, I suggest, to the Senate, by the person who at the moment holds the office of Attorney-General - and has disgraced it. He has disgraced the office of Attorney-General in a way which this Senate and this country will not forget in a very long time. 
That eminent helper of  Senator Murphy, Senator James  McClelland, was the first person to speak in defence after  Senator Greenwood  had made his factual statement- a statement not filled with pejoratives and adjectives but a statement filled with facts.  Senator James  McClelland apparently rushed to the defence of the statement for reasons best known to himself as to why he should wish to so assiduously defend the statement which  Senator Murphy  made. 
So I understand, but I am not sure whether he believes that you are on his side after the statement he made, as I understand it, with assistance. Be that as it may- 
 Senator Gair  says that  Senator Murphy  does not need enemies when he has friends like  Senator James  McClelland. Who am I to argue with  Senator Gair  about that aspect? All I say is that I find it most interesting to see  Senator James  McClelland rushing to the defence of the statement.  Senator James  McClelland made a signficant remark in the course of his speech. He said that something over a fortnight ago he was shown a film by the Commonwealth Police of the  1963  'Wodonga training camp' - and  1  use the words 'Wodonga training camp' in inverted commas. I wonder why  Senator James  McClelland saw that film at that time? I wonder why it was that the Commonwealth Police were both interested, concerned and prepared to show it to him at that time. 
Let us think for a moment about the matter raised by  Senator James  McClelland - what happened  10  years ago at the Wodonga training camp. I was talking to an Australian in Hobart last Monday night, an Australian who came originally from Yugoslavia. I showed him the photographs tabled by the Attorney-General. He looked at them and said: 'Oh, there is so-and-so and soandso and so-and-so. He described to me these terrible terrorists who are portrayed in this film of such great importance that  Senator James  McClelland was at great pains to talk about. 
No, but I have seen the photographs and I have talked to somebody who was there, which is more than you have done. 
I would be delighted to do so if the Commonwealth Police would extend to me the same sort of privileges which they extend to you. I will here and now request through  Senator Murphy,  who has just arrived that I be able to see the film. I am sure other honourable senators of my Party would like to be granted the same privilege. 
 Senator Murphy  says that we can see the film. I am grateful to him. I wonder,  Mr President,  whether it will take the matter any further than the photographs did. 
 I will be interested to find out and unlike  Senator James  McClelland I will reserve judgment until I have seen it. 
Yes, you passed judgment in relation to a lot of matters. Let me deal with some of them and then I shall return to the matter of the Wodonga training camp. Firstly  Senator James  McClelland accused the former Attorney-General,  Senator Greenwood,  of saying that there had been no prosecutions undertaken by the present Attorney-General.  Senator James  McClelland said that  Senator Greenwood  should have waited until after last weekend. He said that  Senator Greenwood  should have waited until he has seen that there were prosecutions and then amended his speech. I want to quote for  Senator James  McClelland's benefit and for the benefit of other honourable senators, the second paragraph on page 3 of the statement made this afternoon by  Senator Greenwood,  the former Attorney-General. He said: 
It is inconceivable that if there is evidence of organised terrorism there should be no prosecutions. And, naturally, what we are concerned about arc not prosecutions of individuals following police raids and arrests since the Attorney-General made his statement last week. We are concerned to challenge and deny the Attorney-General's assertions that last year the evidence was available in abundance to support prosecutions. 

 Senator James McClelland deliberately and clearly misled the public and the Senate this afternoon. Having heard the former AttorneyGeneral,  Senator Greenwood,  and having before him a copy of his statement which was made available for reference, he made a misstatement and made an accusation against  Senator Greenwood. 
The accusation cannot be sustained by the evidence before this Senate.  Senator James  McClelland referred to the fact that there were no prosecutions and said that  Senator Greenwood  should have waited until after last weekend before making any comment because he would then have known that there were some prosecutions. 
The whole point made by  Senator Greenwood  and the whole point made by the Opposition  -  I state it and re-state it - is this: The gravamen of the charges made by  Senator 
Murphy apparently supported to a degree and in a lukewarm fashion by his supporters sitting beside him on the Government' side of the chamber, is that the former Attorney-General was soft on terrorism and that he did not act on the evidence available to him - here I interpolate - to launch prosecutions which should have been launched against terrorists in Australia. The point made by  Senator Greenwood  and the point which we of the Opposition in this chamber make is simply this: Four months have passed since  Senator Murphy  was appointed to office as AttorneyGeneral. He has had available to him during those 4 months the evidence which was available to  Senator Greenwood  plus anything else which has become available since his appointment.  Senator Murphy  has riot instituted ' a single solitary prosecution against any Croatian or any other person in Australia in relation to alleged terrorism arising out of facts which were known or available to  Senator Greenwood  when he was Attorney-General. No further proof is needed to rebut the charges made' by  Senator Murphy  than that simple fact.  Senator Murphy  must, as was suggested to him in certain editorials and articles in the Press, cither put up or shut up.  Senator Murphy  now is in the position of having to shut up. Tt has been demonstrated that he, apparently with the assistance of  Senator James  McClelland, judging by the use of the word 'we*, engaged- 
Yes, it was an interesting word. I thank  Senator Young  for the interjection. 
 I do not know whether  Senator Young  is right or wrong in the supposition that  Senator James  McClelland wrote  Senator Murphy's  speech. If he did write it. ho doubt  Senator Murphy  will now be very upset with  Senator James  McClelland. Undoubtedly, whoever it was - whether it was  Senator Murphy  or some person purportedly assisting him - who wrote that speech the net result was that  Senator Murphy  made a fool of himself. He exposed himself to being shown to be a deceiver of the Australian public and a deceiver of the Senate because he did 2 things which no Attorney-General, no lawyer, : no senator and no citizen should do. He did 2 things which are unpardonable. He quoted out of context and he withheld information while purporting to disclose the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth. He withheld information which was both relevant and pertinent and which showed that the case he was putting did not exist in fact. These are things which  Senator Murphy,  if he did accept something which was written for him by somebody else, as  Senator Young  suggests, no doubt will wish to reconsider in due time in order to see what attitude he should adopt towards the person who put him in the position in which he now finds himself. 

 Senator James McClelland, in what I thought was a somewhat ineffective defence of the statement - we do not know whether he was defending himself or somebody else - said that  Senator Greenwood  was prepared to use hearsay because he was prepared to say in relation to the question of agents provocateurs that there was only hearsay evidence, but in relation to others, on similar evidence, he was prepared to make categorical statements. All I can say about that is that  Senator James  McClelland has shown that he neither read nor listened to the statement made by  Senator Greenwood  because 2 things are quite clear. The whole basis of  Senator Greenwood's  statement was, firstly, that in relation to Croatian - alleged Croatian terrorism- 
Government senators - Huh, huh! 
Members of the Labor Party say 'Hub, huh', showing their ass-like approach to this question. The whole approach of  Senator Greenwood  was twofold: Firstly, that in relation to alleged Croatian terrorism there was no viable or credible evidence to support a positive assertion, leading to prosecution and conviction, that such organisations for the purpose of terrorism existed in Australia. He went no further than that. He repeatedly said that there were reasons to believe and there were reasons to have cause to be concerned. He made all the other qualifications which are appropriate for an AttorneyGeneral. But what he did say was that in accordance with the advice given to him by ASIO, by the Commonwealth police, by his own Department and by any other Government agency to which reference has been made, there was not sufficient evidence to institute a prosecution. 
That that was so is confirmed by the fact that  Senator Murphy,  in 4 months as AttorneyGeneral, has not instituted any prosecution on the evidence which was available to  Senator Greenwood.  This is something to which we must return continually in a consideration of this question.  Senator Murphy  has not launched any prosecution on the evidence which was available to  Senator Greenwood. 
The next point that  Senator Greenwood  made was that the reports available to him raised the question - no more than that - of the existence of agents provocateurs.  Senator Greenwood  was at pains to point out that he had no credible evidence to prove the existence of agents provocateurs. But what he did say was that there was no greater reason to believe that the bombings and the other actions to which reference had been made were the actions of so-called Croatian terrorists than that they were the actions of agents provocateurs.  Senator James  McClelland again misstated the facts to the Senate. He is not to be believed because he cannot read a statement and he cannot listen to it accurately. 
Then  Senator James  McClelland went on to refer to what happened at Wodonga. Ten years ago there were meetings of the Citizen Military Forces at Wodonga. The CMF - that incredibly seditious organisation - apparently was acting in league with the Croatian nationalists!  Senator Murphy  has tabled photographs in the Senate, and I should like to refer very briefly to them. The documents are numbered 'B7'. We find that one of them is a photograph of a number of gentlemen in their shorts and gym singlets, standing or sitting on the front of what was known a few years ago as a Bren gun carrier. Not being familiar with recent military terms, I am not quite sure what it is called today. One of the things in which I am interested is that we have not heard a single refutation of the allegation that the badge on the front of those singlets is the badge of Croatia - not the badge of the Ustasha. We have heard from  Senator Mulvihill  and from other people that this is apparently the badge of the Ustasha. I should like somebody to be able to say categorically and irrefutably that that is so, because at the moment we have an assertion that it is the badge of Croatia which was in existence more than 70 years ago. 
We have also other photographs showing members of the Citizen Military Forces and members of the Croatian community, and what we find is that all these photographs - and  I  have not seen the film that  Senator James  McClelland was privileged to see, and some of the photographs no doubt have been taken from the film - show a group of people, but never in a training position in relation to weapons. We find that the police and ASIO reports - and I challenge  Senator Murphy  or any other Labor senator to deny this - show that the full investigation of this matter resulted in no evidence being found of any military training on the part of any of the Croatian or Yugoslav persons present at this holiday camp. 
There was no evidence of any organisation behind the existence of the camp; there was no evidence of any terrorist activities behind the persons involved in the camp; but rather the evidence showed that there was an occasion when the CMF and the Croatian or Yugoslav nationalists, or former members of the peoples of those countries, joined together at a time when the photographs were taken. They were sitting on Bren gun carriers or on tanks holding weapons, all of which belonged to the CMF. Are members of the Labor Party prepared to make the charge that the Citizen Military Forces of this country acted in a way which was seditious or which involved them cooperating with a terrorist organisation? If they are prepared to make that charge, are they prepared to support it with evidence? I challenge  Senator Murphy  to support it from any documents which are available and, in part.ticular I ask him to refer to the particular report dealing with the investigation of those charges. In answer to a question asked of him by  Senator Wriedt, Senator Greenwood  said: 
I can deny emphatically the suggestion that there was a training camp for terrorist purposes at Wodonga in 1963. 
I challenge any Labor Party senator to produce convincing evidence to the contraryprovided he is prepared to undertake to produce the evidence, the whole evidence and nothing but the evidence. Let us proceed then to consider for a moment the further charges made by  Senator James  McClelland. 
 Senator Webster  has convinced me that the further charges made oy  Senator James  McClelland are not worth dealing with. 
Debate interrupted. 
The Senate is debating a statement entitled 'Ministerial Statement on Croatian Terrorism' which was delivered to this chamber by the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy).  I think it is significant to look for a moment at the heading of the statement - 'Ministerial Statement on Croatian Terrorism'. Even the title is misleading. It misrepresents the true nature of the situation existing in Australia. I suggest that the Croatian situation perhaps can best be described as it was by  Mr Barbour,  the Director-General of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, in the final section of a report which he made to the then Attorney-General last year. I shall refer to that in a moment. 
Firstly I refer to an example of the way in which an impression which is misleading has been given to the Australian people in relation to the Croatian community here. I shall refer to the whole of a paragraph in the statement which was given by  Senator Murphy.  I will not do what the honourable senator did and take parts out of context to support an argument. He stated: 
The second factor which highlighted the question of Croat terrorism in Australia-- 
I emphasise those words 'Croat terrorism in Australia' - and which attracted special attention from the Commonwealth and State police was the occurrence of 2 bombing incidents in Sydney on 16th September 1972 involving premises and persons connected with the Yugoslav community. These incidents left unaltered the then Attorney-General's statement that there was no organised terrorism among the Croatian community in Australia. 
What proof did  Senator Murphy  have then, and what proof does he have now, that Croatians were involved in those bomb incidents in Sydney in 1972? If  Senator Murphy  is able to say that the bomb incidents highlighted Croat terrorism in Australia, if he is able to criticise  Senator Greenwood  for not admitting that there was organised terrorism among the Croation community in Australia, why has he not prosecuted any person in relation to those bomb incidents? Either he has the evidence and should prosecute, or he does not have the evidence and should not make wild statements which cannot be substantiated. I wish to make it clear that I would not for one moment suggest that the question of terrorism is not a matter of concern in Australia. But it is one thing to be concerned about the existence of activities which can be classified as terrorist and it is another to make statements - statements which have not been supported by actions and which have not been supported by credible evidence - about who are responsible for them. 
I would suggest that the paragraph I quoted from  Senator Murphy's  speech is just one example of the way in which  Senator Murphy  has behaved in that, for political purposes, he has prematurely published confidential reports and information on current investigations and prosecutions whereby the persons involved are very likely to be prejudiced, and in that he has directed his statement to political criticism of his predecessor instead of to the national interest of good order and security.  Senator Murphy  has, in a selective tabling of documents, attempted to mislead the Senate. I think one should have regard to the final statement which appeared in a report by  Mr Barbour  in September of last year in which he said: 
It must be expected that repressive action against Croats in Yugoslavia may result in increased activity overseas and lead to acts of violence. Indeed, as long as the present organisation of Yugoslavia exists, the Croation scene will always have an element of violence in it, albeit caused by a small number of people. 
That is the highest statement which could be made. It is very different from saying that there is organised Croatian terrorism in Australia. 
I do not think that it is necessary to spend  a  great deal of further time on that aspect of the matter. I would rather turn now to the selectivity displayed by  Senator Murphy  and others. I thought what  Senator Brown  said yesterday " was of some significance. He referred to the fact that  Senator Greenwood  had produced a number of documents which  Senator Murphy  had not tabled and gave  a  reason why  Senator Murphy  had not tabled them.  Senator Brown  said: 
The simple answer to that is that we have heard all this before. 
In other words, it does not matter whether something is true, it does not matter whether an omission gives a misleading impression, it does not matter what the requirement is as to accuracy, if one has heard it all before one does not bother tabling the documents. That was  Senator Brown's  only contribution to the debate, but it was a significant one in that it gave an example of the attitude adopted by the Government in relation to this matter. 
Another simple matter that is evidence of the misleading character of  Senator Murphy's  statement was his accusation that  Senator Greenwood  had removed an officer of the Attorney-General's Department from work on the investigation of Croatian or Yugoslav activities in Australia.  Senator Greenwood  has said that that is not true.  Senator Greenwood  has gone further than that and has said that long after the date on which  Senator Murphy  alleges that this man was taken off that work by him, he, that is  Senator Greenwood,  was still receiving reports signed by that man. Was it through malice that  Senator Murphy  made that statement? Was it through negligence that  Senator Murphy  made that statement? Did the Attorney-General not have his statement checked by the officers of his Department? They would have known. Or perhaps they too conspired to mislead the poor Attorney-General. Perhaps they too were a part of this massive Public Service conspiracy - I should make it clear that I would add the word 'alleged* before 'conspiracy' - about which we have been hearing. 
I think it is  a  fair example of the double' standards used by the Government in its approach to this question because, if we consider it for a moment, as I said earlier, the statement was entitled 'Croatian Terrorism in Australia'. If  Senator Murphy  is concerned for the good order and the good government of this country, if  Senator Murphy  is concerned with terrorism or violance in this country, why did he not make  a  statement which related to terrorism or possible terrorism in this country? If he did that he would have to go further than just making slanted references to  Senator Greenwood.  He would have to go so far as to refer to the sort of violence and terrorism which exists in this country within some sections of the trade union movement, about which there is no doubt. There is certainly much stronger proof of terrorism and violence taking place in some sections of the trade union movement of Australia than there is of terrorism and violence on an organised basis taking place within the Croatian community. 
Only a short time ago when the Australian Democratic Labor Party suggested that  Mr Burchett  should be investigated or given an opportunity to explain himself, what attitude was adopted by the Labor Government? It opposed such a proposal, and opposed it vigorously, lt debated at great length the need to protect the interest of a man such as  Mr Burchett  against whom allegations have been made over a period of some 20 years. But did the Labor Government apply the same standard to some of the persons mentioned in  Senator Murphy's  statement? No. I wonder why it granted naturalisation to a gentleman who has been a resident in Australia for some 20 years. Was it because his political affiliations were extreme left wing? According to the Labor Party, that is all right in relation to persons whose activities are such as those of  Mr Burchett  who was given a passport by the new Government and the man who was granted naturalisation by the new Government after he had made many applications. All of the people whose alleged activities have been on the extreme Left of politics are immediately hailed by the new Government as being people against whom nothing wrong can be said. But if there are some extreme right wing fascists, Croatians or Yugoslavs in Australia, apparently they are to be singled out. They are to be made the subject matter of a statement by  Senator Murphy  in which he names them and uses statements which are hearsay and which apparently do not support any court action being taken against them. 
It is just an aspect of the double standards which are applied by the Labor Government. Anyone on the extreme Left in this country today is all right, but anyone on the extreme Right is all wrong. I suggest that the proper approach is one of objectivity. If there are people in Australia whose actions are not in the interests of good government and the security of this country, they ought to be impartially dealt with, irrespective of the side of the spectrum upon which their extremism lies. Let us hope that there will be a little more objectivity in the Government's approach in future. While we are thinking about this question of objectivity, I wonder why it was that  Senator Murphy  did not include any reference to some of the things that have been said and done by those on the extreme left of politics in Australia, members of the Communist Party, and what has appeared in some documents published by that Party. Let me give 2 quotations of things which have been said in the last couple of years by people writing for the Communist Party publications in Australia to see how they compare with the sort of statements which have been made or are alleged to have been made by some of the alleged Croatian nationalist organisations. For instance, it is said in a copy of the 'Australian Communist': 
The aim of revolutionaries must be to draw conclusions as to how to carry through the workers' and students' struggle to political revolution to the seizure of State power. For that there are 3 things necessary: a revolutionary party with a revolutionary theory, arms for the people, a people's army, and a united front. 
I re-emphasise the words 'arms for the people'. If that is not advocating violence, advocating an action which is not in the interests of good government and which is not in the interests of the security of this country, I do not know what it is. There is a great deal of difference between advocating arms for the people of Australia, so that they may conduct a revolution for the seizure of State power of this country, and for people whose activities, at worst, according to  Senator Murphy,  are to use this country for the purposes of political action related to another country. Let me give another quotation: 
It is absolutely essential to meet counter-revolutionary violence with revolutionary violence . . . We must be prepared for the future . . . Experience of other countries has shown that when police violence fails against the people, the armed forces are brought out to back them up. We must be prepared to do this, too . . . The Australian people will surely develop their own armed forces to deal with counterrevolutionary violence. 
That is advocating violence - and it is  a  quotation from another Communist Party publication of 1971. 
 Senator O'Byrne  comes in with one of his interesting interjections. He asks what we did about it when we were in government. I cannot answer that because our Attorneys-General did not make public the actions which were being taken in the security interests of Australia. They adopted a proper approach rather than the one that has been adopted by the new Attorney-General who, for political purposes, will make public information which can adversely affect the interests of the security of Australia. While we are talking about this aspect let me move to a quotation which relates to the attitude which was adopted by the Party and the Government which set up ASIO. This is a quotation from a statement made by  Dr Evatt,  the then Labor Party Attorney-General in 1949.  Dr Evatt  said: 
The Security Service must be operated with secrecy in order properly to protect the community ... If the results of our security investigations were published, the attempt to defeat subversive activities would always be foiled. 
I reply to  Senator O'Byrne's  interjection therefore by quoting his own famous Party leader,  Dr Evatt.  I go an to quote  Dr Evatt  further: 
We so designed it (the Security Service) as to put it beyond the scope of political party approach . . . 
What a pity that the present Labor Party does not have the same ideals as  Dr Evatt  had. What a pity. (Government senators interjecting). 
Let me repeat it again and then let the Labor senators in this chamber continue to make their inane interjections.  Dr Evatt  said: 
We so designed it (the Security Service) as to put it beyond the scope of political party approach . . . 
But what has  Senator Murphy  done? He has brought it under political party control for his own purposes against the interests of this country - against the interests of this country as stated by none other than  Dr Evatt  and restated by successive responsible Ministers of this country.  Dr Evatt  continued: 
The Government has decided to separate the investigation of police functions from the security function. 
That is an objective sought to be achieved, but not achieved, in the United States of America. It is an objective actually achieved in the United Kingdom and in Australia and which has been regarded as being of great importance to the preservation of democracy in our type of country - a country such as Great Britain - a country such as Australia. It is regarded' as being of great importance to keep separated the intelligence function from the police and investigation functions. In other words, let us not have a confusion between those functions. 
What is it that  Senator Murphy  and his supporters are apparently prepared to do to this country? They are prepared to bring under one man's direct control the secret police function and the non-secret State and 
Commonwealth police function.  Senator Murphy  wants to bring those functions under, one man's control. He wants to have the police investigating drug matters, the ordinary Commonwealth police and all the other police brought under one man's control. That may be an effective way to operate. I do not know. But he also wants to bring the intelligence organisation under his direct political control so that both it and the police forces can be worked together. 
What do we find amongst the first actions of this man as Attorney-General? We find that amongst those affected are people who left Europe to escape from the type of administration where a knock on the door at midnight means that you can say farewell to your family. It means that you are not likely to be seen again and if you survive imprisonment the rest of your life is likely to be affected. These people have come to Australia to live in freedom. These are people to whom freedom is important and who value it. They have been subjected to early morning raids by police forces. They were subjected to the biggest dragnet in Australian history last weekend, apparently at the instigation of  Senator Murphy.  One wonders why it had to be last weekend. Was it in the ordinary course of the enforcement of law in this country or was it to try to get  Senator Murphy  off the hook and out of the situation in which he had got himself by his misstatements and his overstatements and his permitting people to write stories which obviously were fed out to pressmen, published and not corrected to create in Australia a situation of fear amongst our migrant communities - the sort of fear which they left Europe to escape? 
That is what  Senator Murphy  and his Party can be proud of. They are turning this country into a country where fear will reign supreme and where the fear of a midnight knock becomes a reality. Let us continue for a moment to consider whether  Senator Greenwood  should not, in one sense, at least, be grateful to  Senator Murphy.  I know that neither  Senator Greenwood  nor the people of this country have anything for which to be grateful to  Senator Murphy  in recent times. But at least he did one thing. There is now proof of  Senator Greenwood's  bona fides. Prior to this, adopting a responsible ministerial attitude,  Senator Greenwood  had only stated the effect of the advice which was being given to him. Never did he table secret documents to support himself. Never did he table secret documents to support his statements. But  Senator Murphy  has now declassified and tabled all of those documents which prove conclusively  Senator Greenwood's  bona fides. 
Let me refer now- 
I have lost a copy of  Senator Greenwood's  speech. Now that I have found it, let me quote from it. He referred to a document and stated: 
After setting out the functions of the group the document records: 
In accordance with your requirements - 
I emphasise those words 'in accordance with your requirements' -  "... the group will make frequent and regular reports on at least a daily basis to yourself. 
Does that sound like the action of a man who was indifferent and who did not care to investigate the allegations which were being made? That is a quote from a document submitted by the Secretary of the Attorney-General's Department. It is quite obvious that  Senator Greenwood  took a proper attitude, taking into account the civil liberties and the rights of the people who were involved. He did not make allegations which could not be substantiated, but he repeatedly expressed his concern. From the documents we can see that not only did he express his concern publicly but he took direct action through the proper channels, without making all of that public. In other words, he conducted himself in a way in which one would expect a Minister to conduct himself. 
Let me, by way of reference to the public statement, make quite clear what the Government's position was in relation to this question. I shall quote from  Senator Greenwood's  statement. He said that the position of the Government was quite clear. He added: 
If there are groups in this country engaged in training for terrorist or subversive activities - to be carried out either in this country or overseas - they would not be tolerated. 
He also said that it was the view of the Australian Government that all such activities should be stopped, that the Government would do all in its power to ensure that this was done and that all allegations that such groups existed would be investigated and where there was any basis in fact action would be taken. I remind the Senate again that if  Senator Murphy  had been prepared to adopt that attitude we would not have had the furore or the farce which has taken place in the past few weeks and we would not have rampant in the community now fear arising from the action of the past few weeks. 
I heard an interjection that we would have had more bombs. Let me refer to this matter. Prior to the visit of the Prime Minister of Yugoslavia to this country we had Murphy's melodrama. The greatest security force that has ever been marshalled in the history of Australia was marshalled. Tremendous precautions were taken. It was still possible for one prankster - not a serious killer - to break through that cordon and to place a bomb underneath a bridge over which the Prime Minister was to pass. I ask the Senate to think about this for a moment. If it were possible for a- prankster to put a bomb, a hand grenade, underneath a bridge over which the Prime Minister of Yugoslavia was to pass - admittedly the bomb was emptied and was planted as a joke and as a bit of a send up of the precautions which were being taken - how much more possible was' it and how much more likely was it, if there were any serious intent to blow up, to damage or to harm the Prime Minister of Yugoslavia, that a real terrorist would have been able to take action to achieve that result? The ' fact that nothing happened may be equivocal, but the fact that someone was able to carry out a prank and get away with it without being discovered rather tends to make me think that it was a farce. 
Let us not worry to much about that aspect of past history because I think that we should consider for a moment the future.' Will we have any prosecutions from  Senator Murphy?  Will we have any prosecutions related to the evidence which was available to-  Senator Greenwood?  After 4 months in office,  Senator Murphy  has still not instituted any prosecution of any person upon any evidence which was available to  Senator Greenwood:  What has happened is that some prosecutions  will arise out of last weekend's raids. It is unfortunate 
 Senator Young  calls them Murphy's marauders'. Let us simply say that prosecutions will arise out of the massive dragnet of last weekend, a dragnet in which a very large number of people were visited in the early hours of the morning by some 250 policemen. What did they find? There were no large stores of arms, no large stores of bombs, no large stores of anything such as would indicate any organised terrorist force building up a supply of arms for any illicit purpose. I do not wish to comment any further on that aspect and I am sure that I should not comment any further in relation to what was in fact found, but I think that it is proper for me to comment on what was not found. 
The next matter to which I wish to refer briefly is the challenge issued by  Senator Greenwood  to  Senator Murphy  to explain why he did not table documents which were relevant. I think that the most significant document which was tabled is the one dated 4th July, which is not the document which  Senator Greenwood  received, which is not the document which  Senator Greenwood  marked with his own fairly comprehensive comments, but is a document which was totally irrelevant from the point of view of implicating  Senator Greenwood  in any way. I think that, above all else, will require considerable explanation on the part of  Senator Murphy  if any honourable senator is to be convinced of his bona fides in relation to the tabling of documents. Further, why is  Senator Murphy  so coy about some aspects of his own actions whilst he is so free in his accusations about  Senator Greenwood's  actions? For instance, why has he avoided answering a series of questions over a number of days related to the reason he went to the ASIO headquarters in Canberra late on the night on 15th-16th March. He has refused to answer those questions. 
He has been asked repeatedly- 
I did not refuse him leave. 
I do not run the Senate,  Senator Cant,  so I- 
May I continue  Mr President?  I simply ask why  Senator Murphy  has refused to answer the questions. Whether he intended to make some statement at some later time, we do not know. What we do know is that he has had ample opportunity to answer in this chamber questions which have been repeatedly asked of him about why he went to ASIO. He has not answered them. It was an unprecedented step. It is of no use to talk about it being a visit. One does not conduct visits in that way. Next morning he went to the offices of ASIO in Melbourne accompanied by, altogether, 30 Commonwealth police officers from Canberra. That visit cannot, by any stretch of the imagination, be categorised as merely a ministerial visit. 
Are you positive about that? 
Let us check the VIP flight records to see whether those police officers were transported by RAAF aircraft from Canberra to Melbourne that morning. In summary, let me say that I support entirely the amendment moved by  Senator Withers  which states: 
Having carefully studied the statement, the Senate resolves that the Attorney-General,  Senator Murphy,  does not deserve the confidence of the Senate because: 
By tabling only selected documents, he attempted to mislead the Senate; 
There is no doubt about that. 
Cb) He directed his statement to political criticism of his predecessor instead of to the national interest of good order and security; 
As I have already commented this morning, and as  Senator Wright  and others have commented, there is no doubt about that. 
For political purposes, he prematurely published confidential reports and information on current investigations and prosecutions whereby persons involved are very likely to be prejudiced; 
Can there be any doubt about that? And is there anything more monstrous an AttorneyGeneral can do than take away the right of fair trial by making statements before the trial which are likely to prejudice that person's right to fair trial? The amendment continues: 
He wantonly raided and damaged the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation without any justifiable explanation; 
He has not made an explanation as to why he went to the ASIO office on the night of 15th- 16th March. 
We gave him ample opportunity. We asked him question after question and he refused to answer. The last part of the amendment reads: 
By his actions and statements he has created a highly charged political atmosphere whereby many people in the community, particularly migrants, innocent of any offence, are fearful of the knock on the door in the middle of the night and other similar police state methods.  1 have made my comments about that point,  Mr Deputy President,  and in my view, from the number of migrants in our community who have spoken to me since last Sunday, there can be no doubt - if they are representative of the migrants of Australia - that there is a very real fear existing amongst those people. It is a shame that we will take a long time to overcome. This Senate should take action to ensure that this shame is brought to the attention of all people. The Senate should show its disapproval and should show that it will not tolerate such action by an AttorneyGeneral in this country. 
I well recognise the problem raised by  Senator Brown.  As  Senator Brown  has recognised, it was not my intention in any way to prevent him from having an opportunity to incorpor- 
I did not. 
 I will quote the appropriate section. Let us not have a row over something about which there is not a difference of opinion. After  Senator Brown  had resumed his seat and had no opportunity to incorporate the document, I raised the matter. This was before I went on to make my speech. I said: 
Before I commence my speech, perhaps I should seek to clarify whether  Senator Brown  did or did not incorporate in Hansard any document. He referred to his wish to do so. 
 I did not refuse leave. I simply said that I would like to see the document. 
Had leave been sought to incorporate it and had I not been able to see it, I would have objected. Let us proceed on that basis.  Mr President,  I simply wish to say that I recognise that a problem exists that has to be viewed from 2 sides. One side is that the person who wishes to incorporate a document in Hansard knows what is contained in it. But that does not necessarily mean that anybody else knows what is in it. I do not think that it is in the interests of the Senate that an honourable senator should be able, at any time, simply to seek leave to incorporate any document, irrespective of its length or contents. This practice opens up an opportunity for abuse, intentional or unintentional. I think that it is desirable that some system should be available to honourable senators whereby they can incorporate documents in Hansard in proper instances. I support completely the suggestion made by  Senator Brown,  that this would be a proper matter for consideration by the Standing Orders 
Committee bearing in mind all the considerations and the desirability of having an acceptable procedure. I accept that last night  Senator Brown  should have been allowed to incorporate in Hansard the document once the person or persons who were interested in it had some opportunity to see. its contents. 1 support the suggestion made to you,  Mr President,  that you use your presidential office to refer to the Standing Orders Committee the question raised by  Senator Brown. 
WHO IS IVICA KOKIC? 

 Mr Ivica Kokic is a senior employment officer in the Commonwealth Employment Service, which comes under the Federal Department of Labor and National Service. He has held important posts at suburban employment offices such as Sunshine and Glenroy, but promotions recently took him to the head office in the city. 
In other circles he is known as Satnik Ivica Kokic, and given great respect as a top leader of an organisation know as HOP - Hrvatski Oslobodilacki Pokret (Croatian Liberation Movement). The word satnik' means captain, but a special kind of captain. It was a word especially coined in the years 1941-44 when Croatia - a republic of Yugoslavia - was under Nazi rule. 
Satnik Kokic and HOP owe allegiance to the Poglavnik - another special word from the period meaning Fuhrer. This was  Dr Ante  Pavelic, who headed the quisling regime set up by Hitler and Mussolini to rule Croatia. Under this regime, the most shocking war crimes were perpetrated, so much that the German and Italian Nazis told them to go a bit easy. 
This was the Ustasha movement. Kokic and HOP in their publications and at their meetings still use all the symbols, slogans and other trappings of the Nazi period. For example, the symbol 'U' is the equivalent of the swastika, the slogan 'za dom spremni' is the equivalent of 'Sieg Heil'. 

 Mr Kokic is a prominent  speaker  at the annual celebrations of April 10- the main Ustasha anniversary. This celebrates the Nazi victory after the Fas cist powers of Germany and Italy invaded Yugoslavia in 1941 and set up a quisling government. The part Kokic plays in this anniversary is alone proof of his Nazi activities. 
In the Ustasha paper 'Spremnost', Kokic has long been referred to, first as secretary, then as the  president  of HOP. They report his speeches glorifying the Ustasha. 
In 1967 he went to an international Ustasha meeting in the United States, where he met the chief from other countries including a number of war criminals. On his return 'Spremnost' reported that he had been appointed as vice-president of the Croatian Government-in-exile. 
This must be a unique situation in the Australian Public Service and in international relations. A public servant is a member of a shadow Nazi government of a country with which Australia has diplomatic relations (Yugoslavia). And the government of which he is a member is still technically at war with Australia and her World War 2 allies! 
What should concern unions is the fact that he continues to hold a position in the CES. He has surrounded himself with 'interpreters' who share his Nazi views. At a time of increased unemployment he holds a whip-hand over Yugoslav migrants seeking jobs. 
As a writer in "The Review' commented (April 8-14 issue) 'The importance of Kokic's position in the Department of Labor and National Service needs no underlining. He has the power to appoint interpreters, arrange jobs for new immigrants and generally supervise the "settlement" of Yugoslav migrants who constitute the third largest non-English speaking group in Australia.' 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Is the Attorney-General aware that on 22nd February 1973 the then Acting Prime Minister stated that the Commonwealth Government had decided not to seek leave to intervene in the High Court case involving the question of the constitutional validity of the Tasmanian tobacco tax. 
Was the Attorney-General consulted priorto the statement being made. 
Will the Attorney-General state why the Commonwealth Government does not intend to seek leave to appear before the Court. 

 Senator MURPHY- On Tuesday. 6th March 1973, in response to questions without notice I provided an answer to the honourable senator's questions: Hansard, pages 142-3, 147, 148. 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General and follows an earlier question asked by  Senator Young  and the answer given by the Attorney-General. Is it a fact that the Federal Cabinet of which the Attorney-General is a member discussed the question of the pre-dawn raids of 31st March or similar raids to be conducted either in Sydney or throughout Australia prior to those raids? If such discussion took place, was it upon the instigation of the Attorney-General? Does the Attorney-General still deny that he instigated the raids? Does he say that the New South Wales Premier and the New South Wales Commissioner of Police are lying when they say that the New South Wales police did not initiate the raids? 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government as the Minister representing the Prime Minister - and strangely it is not about the same matter. Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to a statement made by the Premier of Tasmania,  Mr Reece,  that the Lake Pedder inquiry was taking a line quite apart from the agreement between himself and  Mr Whitlam?  Is it a fact that there was a behind closed doors agreement between the Prime Minister and  Mr Reece  for the inquiry to take a line different from that dislosed in its terms of reference? Is the inquiry to be conducted in accordance with the terms of reference which were amended at  Mr Reece's  request and by agreement between the Commonwealth and State Governments? If not, upon what lines is it to be conducted? 
I bring up the report of the Australian delegation to the 60th Conference of the Inter-Parliamentary Union held in Rome from 21st to 29th September 1972, and move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
I wish to speak briefly to the motion. The leader of the delegation,  Mr John  Jess, who was at the time of the conference a member of the House of Representatives, is by force of circumstance and the will of the people unable to be in a position to present this report. I wish to take this opportunity to pay a tribute to  Mr John  Jess for the work he did as leader of the Australian delegation to Rome last year and for the other work he did for the Inter-Parliamentary Union. It was a trip which I think was extremely beneficial to the interests of the individual members of the delegation as well as Australia as a whole. I think most, if not all, of the members of the delegation will agree with me when I say that one of the most impressive speeches made during the conference was that made by the leader of the delegation and former member of the House of Representatives,  Mr John  Jess.  Mr Deputy President,  I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
As was mentioned by  Senator Murphy,  I wish to suggest to him - he may like to incorporate it - an amendment relating to paragraph  (10)  of his motion which presently reads: 
Thai the Committee have power to consider the minutes of evidence and records of the Select Committee on Securities and Exchange appointed during the previous Parliament. 
I suggest that the paragraph should read: 
That the Committee have power to consider and use the motions, transcripts of evidence and all other records, including draft reports, advisory papers, correspondence and other documents of the Select Committee on Securities and Exchange appointed during the previous Parliament. 
That will make the motion accord with the form which was used by the Senate on J 4th March of this year when the legislative and general purpose standing committees were reappointed. 
For the record, I point out that I have just handed a copy of the amendment to the  Clerk. 
 The Opposition will wish to participate in debate on this Bill which, while introducing many wide, generous and desirable provisions, is of great significance to the cost of production in that it will undoubtedly spread to other sections of employment and thereby add significantly to the cost of workers compensation policies. However, as I understand that it is not desired to continue the debate this afternoon, I ask for leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy. I ask: Is it a fact that the International Tin Council has imposed quotas on tin producers and that these quotas have been imposed in Australia through the Department of Minerals and Energy? Is it also a fact that a number of small but longstanding tin producers in Tasmania have applied for quotas but have received no response to their applications? If those are the facts, will the Minister take immediate steps to have the applications dealt with and appropriate quotas granted to those producers as soon as possible? 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. It refers to questions asked earlier this session about the Tasmanian tobacco tax case which is before the High Court. Can the Minister state whether a hearing date for that case has been fixed, whether the Commonwealth has yet sought leave to intervene and whether there are any steps which the Commonwealth can take to assist in effecting the earliest possible hearing of that case which is causing considerable distress to a number of people in Tasmania? 
My question, which is directed to the Attorney-General, refers to the answer which earlier he gave to  Senator Greenwood  who said that certain rural industry marketing legislation still contains provisions for the right of entry and search without warrant. 1 now ask the AttorneyGeneral: Will he undertake to see that any of the Acts which still contain that type of provision are altered to contain the provision as to the obtaining of warrants which was placed into that type of legislation by the previous Government during the last 2 or 3 years? 
Pursuant to Standing Order 196a, I move: 
That the Bill be referred to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs for consideration and report and that the Committee report to the Senate on or before 1st May 1973. 
Question put. 
 Mr President,  I seek leave now to move the motion which I foreshadowed when I spoke earlier. 
As I said when it was introduced yesterday, the Bill contains matters which are of concern to the Opposition. It raises the spectre of inflation, which has been raised frequently during this sitting. It raises the fear of the sudden and rapid spread, not just into the Commonwealth employment field but into the State employment field and the private employment field, of a very substantial increase in the cost of services and the cost of production. It is feared that this will be an inevitable result of the Bill. Many sections of private industry already have been making heard their fears about the increases in the cost of the provision of workers compensation. This is not to say that the Opposition opposes in any way the principle of having a generous and appropriate workers compensation scheme for Commonwealth employees. As has been pointed out, the increases are very substantial. For instance, the basic lump sum payment will be almost doubled. If the cost of premiums were to spread to private employment from what I have been able to gather it would probably mean, to take an example, that a small employer such as a sawmiller who has 10 employees and who at the moment is paying just over $1,100 a year in premiums will almost certainly be paying of the order of $3,000 a year in premiums. If a scheme such as this does not spread to private employment, one wonders why the Commonwealth employees should be so much better treated than the employees of the States or the employees of private industry in the distribution of the wealth of the nation. 
The Opposition has reservations or inquiries to make about a number of other aspects of the Bill. These reservations will be referred to by other speakers, each of whom will take up one or two of them. It is believed that they are matters which should be considered further before the Senate votes on the Bill. Those matters include the meaning to be given to the amendment which provides for lump sum payments to be based upon average weekly earnings. In certain sections of the Commonwealth Public Service some of the average weekly earnings are extremely high. Therefore the amounts calculated on a redemption basis become extremely high. It is wondered whether that was the precise intention of the Government in introducing the Bill, whether some of its implications have been considered or whether the concern of the Opposition is perhaps misplaced. We are not saying that our concern is so categorically fixed in its opposition to any particular provision that we oppose the Bill in any way at this stage, but rather we are saying that we have a concern as to the meaning and effect, economic and social, of some of the amendments. It is for that reason that the Opposition will move that the Bill be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, with the request that the Committee return a report to the Senate on 1st May 1973. We are proposing the deferment of the Bill for one sitting day only. The Senate will not be sitting for the next 2 weeks. It is believed that this will give an opportunity to the Committee to look at some of the matters which concern members of the Liberal Party Opposition. I speak on behalf of the Australian Country Party as well when I say that we believe that these matters should be considered. Having foreshadowed the course which will be taken, I shall seek leave to move that motion at a later stage this afternoon. 
We have just heard the Minister for Works  (Senator Cavanagh),  a Minister whom we all remember presented a statement in this Senate about what the Government's action would be. He made the positive statement that the Government had instructed the Australian National Line to negotiate the purchase of the 'Straitsman' and to operate it and to keep special accounts under the provisions of the relevant Act. Now he has told us that we are the people who are being, shall I say, less than outgoing in our attitudes. He suggested that there are all sorts of conspiracies behind the action we propose when what we want to know is why the responsible Minister will not produce the reports. We have asked him repeatedly and he has not produced them. What is he trying to hide? What is the Tasmanian Government trying to hide and so will not produce the reports? Why are conflicting statements made time and again? Why does this Minister make conflicting statements time and again? Why is it that there is so much concern on the part of the people of King Island to get some action, and there is so little action from this Government and the State Labor Government in Tasmania? Four months have passed and there has been no action by this Government to clarify the matter one way or the other. During the preceding time the Minister had the hide to say in this chamber that the previous Federal Government refused to help. That is a demonstrable lie. What happened, as is well known and is documented, is that the then Commonwealth Government said that if the State Government put a proposition to it the matter would be given consideration. That was said repeatedly, even in answers to questions asked by me. I have correspondence and later I shall table it. These are the replies which we were given by the former Government. It pointed out that this was a matter which had to be initiated by the State. It was the State Government which was dragging its feet, not the then Commonwealth Government. The State Government appears to have continued to drag its feet, ably assisted by the new Labor Government of Australia. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
 Mr President,  the history of the cause of this matter- 
 I do not wish to engage in the same type of tactics that have been engaged in by some of the more emotional members of this chamber who talked about dirty, filthy attitudes and dirty guttersnipe tactics, but I would like to point out that the thing they are complaining about, if their complaints are correct and well founded, is the very thing that has been happening in another chamber of this Parliament this week. That is, the brutality of numbers has been exercised in a way unknown for 23 years. 
Apparently  Senator Wheeldon  wishes to make a second speech. He made a rather poor one a little earlier. Perhaps he should seek leave to make a second one. Let me continue, if I may, without  Senator Wheeldon  trying to make a speech at the same time. The things which it is being suggested  Senator Withers  did are the very things which undeniably have been done in another place. It is demonstrably true on the record that what  Senator Withers  did was to observe the Standing Orders and comply with the arrangements that had been made here. 
When  Senator Murphy  says oh' all I can say is that  Senator Murphy  ought to remember the way he behaved when he was in Opposition. I do not think it is necessary for us to spend a great deal of time talking about this, but I would like to suggest that, whilst the Opposition did not take objection to  Senator Cavanagh's  using the sort of expressions he used- 
 Thank you,  Senator Gietzelt.  The honourable senator says that we know they are true. All I say to  Senator Gietzelt  is that I know they would be true as descriptive of that type of action had it taken place. Demonstrably it has occurred in another place.  Senator Gietzelt  attributes to his own Party's Leader, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  dirty, filthy attitudes and dirty guttersnipe tactics. 
I ask the Special Minister of State, in his capacity as Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Is it a fact that the Yugoslav Government at all times claimed that the 3 executed Australians were killed in the Bosnian raid until it claimed on 13th April 1973 that these men had been executed? Which statement does the Government now believe to be the lie? Has any protest been made to the Yugoslav Prime Minister at this diplomatic deception? Was it a particularly serious breach of diplomatic relations, in view of the fact that it is now alleged by the Yugoslav Government that the executions took place only a few days before the Australian Government, at great expense, entertained the Yugoslav Prime Minister? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. I refer to his recent report which indicates that approximately the same number of approvals have been given by him for telephone tapping by the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation during the first 3 months of this year as were given during the whole of last year. Will the Minister report the number of approvals given by him in respect of each State of Australia? 
Thank you. I make this final point. We will study the documents which have been placed before the Senate and the statement which has been made. I find it of some interest that the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  in a considered statement has said that the reports of the National Radiation Advisory Committee and the Australian Academy of Science establish that the people of Australia may - I emphasise that word 'may' - have been adversely affected by France holding nuclear tests in the Pacific. This is a matter of considerable concern to the Opposition because we find that the Attorney-General after his trip to Paris and after making positive statements is now, in a considered statement, using the word 'may' as opposed to the positive statements which have been made in the past. 
I shall study the documents and the statement, as will every honourable senator on the Opposition side. For that purpose I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted. 
Debate adjourned. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation. I refer to questions I have asked during the preceding 2 months relating to my requests for an investigation of the cost and practicality of making Hobart airport suitable for use by international jet aircraft. Can I expect an answer to the simple question whether the Minister will undertake the investigation? 
A number of matters have been raised in relation to cost - the administrative cost of the making of the payments and the arrangements in relation to the payments. The Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  has said that he believes that it is likely - he uses words to that effect - that this matter will be dealt with in the DirectorGeneral's report. Will the Minister ensure that it is dealt with in the report of the Director-General and that the maximum amount of information which can be made available is made available at the earliest possible opportunity, so that it can be made the subject of an estimates committee examination if it does appear that there is some justification for the concern which has been expressed? 
My question, which is directed to the Attorney-General, follows earlier questions that have been asked arising out of a statement which he made yesterday and in which he made an accusation of a very serious crime having been committed by a certain  Mr Pavlovic.  How does he distinguish between the statements he made to this chamber on 1st March 1972 - and I shall quote them - and the statements he has made today in trying to explain why and how he made this incredible statement? The AttorneyGeneral said: 
The office of Attorney-General is an ancient and honourable one. The Attorney-General is a member of the Crown but bis position is different from that of other Ministers. His special position imposes duties and restraints peculiar to that office. 
I should have said 'a Minister of the Crown'. Later, as reported at page 301 of Hansard, the Attorney-General said:  lt is part of the rule of law that persons be presumed innocent and that they should not be made the subject of prejudicial statements before their case is tried. 
The Attorney-General then went on to define prejudicial statements'. 
This Bill relates to the extension of a concept commenced by the previous Government relating to the opportunity for people entitled to and in receipt of Australian-earned pensions to receive those pensions in other parts of the world should they choose to live in some other part of the world. The previous Government introduced the concept by way of negotiating agreements with other countries whereby this situation would become possible. This Bill extends that concept and provides that it will no longer be necessary to negotiate such an agreement. Pension rights will be available to persons who have become entitled to them in Australia, irrespective of the existence of such a reciprocal agreement. The Opposition does not oppose that extension. It is an extension of a concept developed by the previous Government. We do not do other than go along with the proposal. It recognises some of the changes which have come about, both in the capacity of a country to provide for welfare payments to its citizens and in the recognition of the changes which have come to world society as a result of travel, communication and migration. We now have a far more mobile community than existed in years before. This type of provision is a recognition of the needs and of the entitlements of people in the present day type of community. 
I shall refer later to the question of the community's ability to be able to pay for these types of provisions. There is also another matter which led to the moving of an amendment in the House of Representatives. I indicate to the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  that for reasons which I shall explain, it is not the Opposition's intention to move that amendment today. I hope that the Minister will reaffirm the undertaking given by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  in the House of Representatives. I shall now make some comments on the Minister's second reading speech. As some other previous second reading speeches relating to Bills have done, it raises some matters of party political importance, although not of great relevance to the Bill itself. The Minister said that this Bill is a recognition of the special rights and needs of migrants in this country and was justice too long denied them. The Bill is not limited to making provision for migrants in Australia. Its provisions extend to all citizens of Australia. 
If the Government is to lake claim for doing things for migrants, such as recognising the special rights and needs of migrants in this country, which it suggests the previous Government denied them for too long, 1 ask the Minister who made this speech, his Cabinet colleagues and his Party to reconsider what they are doing to the migrant community of Australia in other ways. It is all very well to take credit for something which is being done but which, after all, is only a continuation of a concept developed by the previous Government, and then to suggest that the previous Government was unmindful of the rights and needs of migrants to this country at a time when the migrant community is more unsettled by the actions of the new Government than it was during the whole 23 years of the preceding Government. But I simply remind honourable senators that such claims can be used as 2-edged swords. If there is a genuine interest in looking after the migrant community and seeing that its rights and needs are met I hope that we will not have wide-sweeping unsettling accusations made about sections of that migrant community, accusations which do have a disturbing and unfortunate effect on the migrant community. 
The Minister in his second reading speech also said: 
This Bill marks another instalment in the implementation of the Whitlam Government's progressive policy in the social welfare area and will be followed by many other measures designed to ensure that we resume our rightful place as a pioneer and leader in this field. 
That statement comes from a representative of the only Party which has ever reduced pensions in the history of this country. While the Government is throwing bouquets to itself and brickbats at others perhaps it should remember that fact and be a little fair. Honourable senators should remember in considering this matter that the greatest development in social welfare policies took place in the period of office of the preceding Government. If the new Government is able to do as well as the preceding Government in the social welfare area I will be pleased to give it credit when it has completed the job. I think it is a little premature for supporters of the Government to be patting themselves on their backs at this stage. Let us wait to see what the Government's performance really is. Amongst other things a country has to be able to afford social welfare legislation. If the administration of this country is to follow the incredible course which it has begun to follow, in which inflation has been allowed to run rampant, where Government action is taken regardless of its inflationary effect and regardless of the detriment to the country's ability to be able to provide proper social welfare legislation, where steps are taken which are totally unrelated to the economic management of the country, we will find that rather than having a capacity to increase social welfare legislation the Government's capacity to provide for it will be decreased. That is something which I am sure no member of the Opposition would wish to see happen. 
What do we find? When we look around at the moment we find that the Government is prepared to adopt what might be very loosely termed a prices policy but it is not prepared to adopt an incomes policy. I accept that there is a need in economic management in Australia to be able to adopt at least on a stop-go basis a form of prices and incomes policy. In saying that, 1 do not speak formally on behalf of the Opposition; I am expressing a personal view. The Government is adopting the approach that it is all right to contain prices but it does not have to worry about incomes. The Government is providing tremendous benefits to certain sections of the community by introducing legislation such as the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill, without having regard to the effect that it will have. In one sense, I might be straying a little from the present Bill, but it is relevant to the claim which has been made that the Government is introducing this Bill as one step in its implementation of a progressive policy in the social welfare area. 
I am most concerned because apparently the Government is prepared to introduce compensation legislation which will give to Commonwealth employees 100 per cent benefits at a time when the Government is also talking about a national superannuation scheme and doing away with fault liability so far as negligence actions are concerned. Has the Government related the effect of the provision of 100 per cent compensation benefits to Commonwealth employees to what  it  can provide and what the country can provide in relation to a national superannuation scheme or a no-fault insurance liability scheme? These are the sorts of things which concern me. At the moment I do not see any evidence of an inter-relationship into a program which should be forthcoming from a responsible government. We get the impression that it is rushing around doing things, many of which are wholly desirable in themselves but which have not been inter-related in the overall economic management of the country. I remind the Government that at the moment it is luxuriating in the benefits of the good administration of the previous 23 years which led the development of this nation to a stage at which it is possible for the sort of things that the Government is doing to be done. 1 do not think it should become so over-enthusiastic in doing some of the things that it is doing that it neglects the areas of management of the economy which will make these steps possible. 
If, as a result of the steps being taken or as a result of the failure to take steps to control inflation in this country, pensions are eroded, then net harm rather than good has been done by the Government notwithstanding the fact that it may have extended some of the benefits to some of the pensioners at some of the times. If, as we are led to believe by some of the leaks which seem to be coming out of the office of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  or out of other offices, there are to be increases in taxation, will they - particularly the fields of taxation in which the indications are that the increases will be imposed - have a net effect on the productivity of the nation? In other words, will the increases have an effect on the capacity of the nation to pay for social welfare legislation? I raise these matters in passing because, although the Opposition does not oppose the passage of the Bill, it is concerned at the way in which the Government is running the country. I do not intend to debate this aspect much longer. There will be other occasions which are related more directly to the matters on which I would certainly wish to make f urther remarks. 
I direct my attention now to one area of possible abuse which appears to arise under the Bill. I will give an example. Under the legislation, a young British woman who was a deserted wife or unwed mother could come to Australia for a year or 2 and become entitled to receive a pension paid by the Australian taxpayer for the remainder of her life back in England. That appears to be something which would not be intended by the Government. It would appear to be something which would constitute an abuse, and it would appear to be something which was undesirable if that were the effect. This point was raised in the House of Representatives. An amendment which was intended to overcome that possibility was moved. In speaking to it, the Minister,  Mr Hayden,  the honourable member for Oxley, as reported at page 1347 of the House of Representatives Hansard, said: 
Steps have been taken or are about to be taken - if they have not been initiated they should have been - to renegotiate the agreements with the United Kingdom and New Zealand. I am certain that in the light of developments which have taken place, and the provisions of this Bill, both countries will want to re-assess their position vis-a-vis the agreements. The Government does not accept the honourable member's amendment. In fact, as I analyse the wording of the amendment 1 can see no difference in import between what is proposed and the provisions of the Bill. 
The Opposition believes that the Minister was saying that if full investigation shows that there are abuses available which would impose an extra and unwarranted load on the Australian taxpayer steps will be taken by the Government to ensure that those abuses are prevented. We accept that interpretation of the assurance given by the Minister in the other House. For that reason we are not moving an amendment in this chamber. But we say this: We have put the Government on notice. We have expressed a concern. It is up to the Government to ensure that this type of abuse cannot take place. If it does take place and if it comes to our notice we shall be quick to point out 2 things - first, the need for alteration and, secondly, the fact that we warned that it was possible that such abuses could take place. Other than that, we do not intend to delay the passage of the Bill, which will bring desirable benefits to quite a considerable number- of Australians. 
I am pleased to hear that interjection. We see the Bill as a continuation and a development of a concept which is wholly desirable. We in no way oppose the concept. The Opposition, when in Government, had commenced the steps of which the Bill is a further development. We support the overall concept. We warn the Government about the economic management of the country and its capacity to continue to provide desirable social welfare alterations if the country is not managed in a way which enables it to afford those alterations, and we warn about what appear to us to be potential abuses available under the Bill. 
 I rise on behalf of members of 2 of the parties on this side of the chamber - the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party - to indicate that they do not wish to debate this Bill bacause they regard the matters relevant to this Bill as having been dealt with during the preceding debate on the Social Sevices Bill (No. 2) 1973. I do take the opportunity of drawing the attention of the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop),  who was present during the previous debate, to the warnings which were given and the remarks which were made by Opposition speakers as to the responsibilities of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden).  I ask the Minister to take it as said that we reiterate those warnings and comments in relation to his responsibilities. This Bill, which provides for the availability of a repatriation benefit to any person no matter where he may live, is an extension of the existing repatriation scheme. The Opposition supports the principle involved and does not oppose the Bill. 
As I understand it, the business of the Senate makes it desirable that this matter relating to a proposed select committee to consider a King Island shipping service be concluded reasonably speedily. For that reason only I shall make my remarks relatively brief. On the prior occasion when this matter was debated it was pointed out by  Senator Wright,  who moved the motion, that there is a history of a very considerable problem related to King Island and the provision of an adequate and reliable shipping service to .and from that island. It has a very substantial primary industry output. It has the needs of the population for consumer goods, lt has the general requirements of trade. Basically for satisfactory marketing of primary products, it requires a regularity of service which has not been provided. A new ship called M.V. 'Straitsman' was built for the service. This ship operated for a very short time before industrial problems, amongst other things, caused the company to reach a loss situation from which it could not continue at that time. 
Since then - that is, the middle of last year - there has been a considerable problem in providing any sort of shipping service to the island. This problem has been made no less severe by reason of the fact that some increased net costs to producers on the island have resulted from the withdrawal of an air freight subsidy. 1 have asked the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  questions about this matter on some occasions. I am still looking forward to receiving a reply from him in relation to what is happening or likely to happen in relation to the air freight subsidy to and from King Island. The problem of what is a suitable shipping service has been investigated by a number of people. There are differences in viewpoint. It seems that there is a difference between the Australian National Line, which has investigated the matter and reported to the Government as has the Federal Department of Shipping and Transport. R. H. Houfe and Co. Pty Ltd, a company which operated the shipping service until the middle of last year and has the most experience of King Island shipping over many years with a variety of ships, has also carried out an investigation. It has taken out figures and projections as to how profitably or otherwise the 'Straitsman' or some other ship may be operated. William Holyman and Sons Pty Ltd is another company with a very long history of shipping experience. Certainly, its experience dates back for over 1^0 years and it is not to be taken lightly, I would think, lt has been involved in and has had some experience in the trade. It has made a summary of its investigation into the profitability or otherwise of the operation of the 'Straitsman' on that service. 
Apparently the Tasmanian Transport Commission also made an investigation as a result of which it advised the Tasmanian Government. But it is alleged - and I do not know any more than the allegation - that the Commission was able to conduct its investigation without - I emphasise 'without' - even contact ing the people who had operated the ship. So any figures which it was able to present to the State Government in its report did not include figures which no doubt would have been available from the people who had recent experience in the operation of this ship. The information would have been available had it been sought, but it was not sought by that State Department. I do not know the reason. That is the allegation which 1 am assured is correct. But I have the projections provided by Holymans and by R. H. Houfe. These projections show clearly and firmly that it can be reasonably anticipated that the Straitsman' can, after an adjustment period of getting the service going again, be operated on an admittedly low net profit basis. Although the figures which the Australian National Line may have produced for the Government indicate that the Line could not operate the service profitably it has taken into account the fact that the service operating from Tasmania to King Island to Melbourne may take away some of the freight which would otherwise be available to the Line. This could be - I say no more than that - part of the difference which appears between the figures produced by the 2 private enterprise companies which I mentioned and the ANL. 
1 am saying that that could be the explanation; 1 do not know. But the point I make is that this is what we want to know. We have moved this motion because the Government will not table any of the advice which it has received. The honourable senator will not let us know the facts in relation to this matter.  His  Government will not and the Minister for Transports  (Mr Charles Jones)  whom he represents will not. Nor has the Tasmanian Parliament done so. The fact is that there are confiding reports and views amongst a variety of people. All the facts are not known. So much noise is made about open government but so little of it is observed by this Labor Government. Open government does not run to letting us know what are the facts. We get assertions but we do not get facts. One of the prime reasons why we would like to see a Senate committee ascertain the facts in relation to the operation of this service is so that people will know and may then make plans and policies as to what best can be done. 
Last time this matter was debated, which was 1 2th April - in other words getting on towards a month ago - we were told: This is unnecessary because the whole thing is about to be fixed'. It has not been fixed and so the situation bas gone on from month to month, from the time just before the election when the Labor Party assured the people of King Island that if it were elected it would immediately reintroduce that ship and it would be operated by the ANL. The Government has not done so. We do not know why. We would like to know why. 
I am prepared to offer to  Senator Cavanagh  2 expert assessments of the operation of that service. Both show that on a reasonable projection it would be profitable. I am not a shipping expert. I do not know whether these assessments are right or wrong. What I am saying is that I have projections available to me from private enterprise but the Government will not make projections available to us from the ANL or from the Department of Shipping and Transport, because open government does not run that far. 
Quite so. Another report is from a company which has managed to survive for over 100 years. Maybe one should take some notice of that. I do not pretend to know the answer. But we would like to know the facts. 
As I am reminded by  Senator Wright's  interjection,  Senator Cavanagh  in answer to a question which I asked him made the positive statement to this chamber that the Government was directing the ANL to enter into negotiations to purchase the 'Straitsman' and to resume the operation on a basis of special accounting under the appropriate section of the Act. What has happened to change that situation? Was it the fact that, coincidentally, later in the day on which the Minister made that Statement the Premier of Tasmania and the Minister for Transport in Tasmania visited Canberra? If one can judge from what the 
Minister for Transport in Tasmania said on television when I saw him, they were against the operation of this ship. No doubt,  Senator Cavanagh  will be able to explain. I wish to refute something that  Senator Cavanagh  said. He said that the previous Government had refused help. 1 have here a letter dated 3rd November 1972, less than a month before the Federal election. I wish to quote from it and if I am required to do so, I will table it. It is from the then Minister for Shipping and Transport, the Honourable Peter Nixon. It says among other things: 
the Government remains extremely concerned about the deterioration of shipping services to King Island. However, it considers the provision of these services rests essentially with the Tasmanian State Government and its Transport Commission. 
I have discussed the problems facing the Island with both State and company representatives and, without presuming to interfere in an area of State responsibility, have offered to consider any proposals that the State may make to the Commonwealth. 
He goes on to refer to the present position and he makes some comments about the responsibility for the service and the attitude of various people. I shall table the letter if required to do so. 
Because of the limited amount of time remaining to me. I now refer only to the positive statement there that the previous Federal Government has offered to consider any proposals that the State may make to the Commonwealth. Clearly, from that statement it may be inferred that at that time - 5 months after the ship had gone off the service - no proposals were being made to the Commonwealth by the State. It appears that the position is still the same. The State cannot work out what it wants to do in making proposals to the Commonwealth. In this instance, I would be inclined, if I were to enter into conjecture as to the responsibility for this incredible continuing mess-up, to say that perhaps the State Labor Government is more to blame than the Federal Labor Government. I think we can say that the Labor Party which made a promise before the last general election that they would reintroduce the 'Straitsman' service immediately probably meant it at the time. What stopped them from doing it? What stopped  Senator Cavanagh's  statement from being correct? 
 Senator Cavanagh  will have time to reply in detail. 
There was a positive statement by  Senator Cavanagh  that this would happen. The statement was made by  Senator Cavanagh  as a Minister. It has been reversed. There must be some reason for this. I am impressed by the coincidence that the Premier of Tasmania,  Mr Reece,  and the Tasmanian Minister for Transport,  Mr Batt,  arrived in Canberra later in the day in which  Senator Cavanagh  made that statement. 
I accept what  Senator Devitt  says. To the best of my knowledge, according to what was in the Press, it was later. There was a change that day. I will put it that way. I do not know why and we cannot find out. We have asked a number of questions and a large number of questions have been asked in the State Parliament. People have said a lot about this and said nothing. What we would like to get are the facts. I support the motion that the Senate, through its committee system, assist in obtaining information on this matter for the people of King Island and of Tasmania and, because they are involved to quite an extent, the people of Australia - the taxpayers of Australia. The Senate committee system can be used to make a factual report on the situation in the absence of any co-operation from the new Government in providing information as to what its advice has been and what has happened in relation to this service. The members of that Government do not believe in practising, they believe only in preaching open government. I support the motion. 
 I am delighted that the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  in his second reading speech has recognised that education is a matter of importance not only to the Government but to the whole Parliament. The Opposition will support the general nature of the Bill, although there are certain matters to which we wish to refer. Therefore. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted: debate adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour. Is it a fact that the Minister for Labour said on the television program 'Federal File' last Sunday that he would lend his support to strikes provided he considered that they were justified? Does that mean that any strike which he does not support is not, in his view and in the view of the Government, justified? Does it also mean that the conciliation and arbitration system is redundant because the Government intends to pass judgment upon the justification or otherwise of all strikes? If so, will any other steps follow the passing of such judgment by the Government? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is the Minister aware that there is a severe shortage of shipping available to transport goods from northern Tasmania to Victoria and that this is particularly serious in relation to accumulated loads of timber awaiting shipment from Bell Bay? Will the Minister, as a matter of urgency, make inquiries as to whether his colleague can arrange through the Australian National Line for ships to he made available to reduce the backlog awaiting shipment at Bell Bay? 
1 deprecate the attempt by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  to introduce Party politics into something which, I understand, has been regarded as a matter upon which the conscience of the individual honourable senator in this chamber should be exercised in a vote which was free from Party politics. To endeavour to suggest that there is some basis upon which the people, represented by honourable senators in this chamber, should be forced because of some artificial mandate allegedly granted to the Australian Labor Party to form a government which could introduce a Bill to abolish capital punishment is to cause even more confusion than that which has been introduced by speakers in favour of its retention. As  Senator Murphy  well knows I support the Bill. In this chamber I have always supported the legislation and have voted only one way in relation to it. But if ever I have found an occasion upon which my feelings, my conscience and my attitudes have been stretched it was when  Senator Murphy  attempted to defend the opposition to the amendment moved by  Senator Greenwood  upon the basis of a mandate achieved by his Government. If ever I uttered words seriously it was when I said by way of interjection to  Senator Murphy  that he would lose the situation which existed on the vote on the second reading if he continued with the sort of spurious argument which he was putting forward. 
To my mind there is no doubt that there are good and valid arguments in favour of this Bill. Those arguments do not include some spurious argument that there is some sort of mandate from the people. The vote on this Bill, if ever there was one, is a conscience vote. I only regret that the Labor Party has not seen fit to make it a conscience vote. If we want to introduce party politics, we have had the allegations at various times that this is a conscience issue. As recently as this afternoon we heard  Senator Murphy  during question time talking about conscience votes on the part of the Labor Party. Yet there has never been a solitary defector from the Labor Party in relation to this issue during the numerous occasions on which it has come before this chamber. This is a matter which has divided the community widely. 1 do not pretend that the view I hold strongly is held by the whole community. But apparently the Labor Parly does. I can only say that I respect  Senator Greenwood's  views, and I respect the views of other honourable senators on this side of the chamber who have argued their case and their views in relation to the retention of the death penalty for certain offences. 1 do not agree with them. At times 1 find it a little, hard to keep from replying in kind to some of the arguments which are put forward for the retention of the death penalty. I refrain from commenting on those arguments because I think the major debate is with those people who genuinely believe that in society's interest there is a valid case for the retention of the death penalty. They see the taking of life as justifiable in that interest. [ do not. 1 presume that those who genuinely support this Bill also hold the view that the taking of a life does not justify the taking of another life in the name of society. But there is no reason for the introduction of spurious Party political views into this matter which, above all else, is a matter of conscience. I simply rise to deprecate the introduction of that aspect into this debate which I had believed, apart from a certain caucus aspect to which I have referred, had proceeded upon the basis that people would express their own conscience views. I have expressed mine. I, have entered into the debate. Because I had entered it previously I had not intended to enter it tonight but the invitation extended, in effect, by the Leader of the Government in the Senate was one which I felt was not to be resisted tonight. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. I claim to have been misrepresented by  Senator Cavanagh  when he, in effect, accused me of not having done what I offered to do in relation to the passage of the Housing Assistance Bill. I simply refer to the Senate Hansard at page 1304, where I am reported as saying: 
The Opposition will do what it can to facilitate the early passage of the Bill. If there are any specific proposals, please let us know. 
I add that we have received no proposals as to the re-listing of this Bill or any special treatment to be given to it. I reaffirm that the Opposition will do what it can to give a speedy passage to the Bill. 
My question is directed to the Special Minister of State. In view of the fact that the Government has a desire to assist in the provision of proper medical services and aid for the people of South East Asia affected by the Indo-China war, can the Minister state why the medical teams and medical aid formerly sent to South Vietnam have been withdrawn? 
 My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment and Conservation. By way of  a  brief preface I refer to the fact that there is a specially constructed ship which takes 2 loads of acid waste each day from Burnie and dumps it 7 miles off shore in Bass Strait. Can the Minister ascertain what present steps are being taken to investigate whether that dumping of acid waste is having any adverse effect on marine life in the area? 
If 1 find myself a little speechless at the moment it is as a result of finding out what happened in this chamber in most flagrant breach of a standing arrangement which has existed for a long time. 
The Opposition will co-operate to facilitate the passage of this Bill because it will bring to people benefits which we support in basic terms. The War Service Homes Act will become the Defence Service Homes Act, if the Bill is passed. The Bill will make alterations which, among other things, will extend the amount of loan available to qualified exservice people. We increased the amount just a few years ago. Now the amount will be. increased from $9,000 to $12,000. We understand that a number of people have been awaiting the passage of the Bill so that they could finalise applications for loans. They are entitled to benefits. If we delay the passage of the Bill the processing of their applications will be delayed. I refer to what the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  said yesterday when the Bill was being referred to. He said that it has been delayed at various times by the Government, not by the Opposition. The Opposition has been prepared to debate it. 
The Opposition is prepared to give the Bill a speedy passage tonight. Therefore, we will not move the amendment which we had intended to move but I will read it to the Senate because it expresses our view. It may be taken by the Government that we are simply indicating a view which we would have argued and pursued if it were not for the fact that it would delay benefits being granted to people who are entitled to them. We are of the opinion that: 
Provision should have been made for the effective period of service to be 6 years. 
I interpolate - rather than the period of 3 years which is provided in the Bill. There are many reasons for that, and those reason are set out in detail in the various speeches which were made in the House of Representatives on this Bill. The second point which the Opposition would wish to make is that we. are of the following opinion: 
For the concessions granted to single or widowed female members of the forces without dependents be granted also to single or widowed male members of the forces without dependants. 
The justice of such an amendment is obvious, and I find it difficult to understand why the 
Government was not prepared to pursue that type of amendment. I ask the Minister for Works  (Senator Cavanagh)  to pass on to the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  that we are also of this opinion: 
For amendments to be made to the principal Act in respect of the title to the dwelling-house, unit or lot to enable the serviceman to borrow on second mortgage and give valid security to the lender. 
The reasons for that were outlined in the House of Representatives. I feel that we are rushing the Bill through a little by not outlining the reasons again. I simply refer to the debate that took place in the House of Representatives. 
The reasons include the fact that there is a wide variation in housing prices in various States and that many people are not able to take advantage of the loans available under this legislation because as things stand they cannot borrow on second mortgage. I do not pursue the reasons further. I just draw attention to them. I remind the Minister that we do not pursue them, and I remind the Senate of the other amendment which the Opposition moved in the House of Representatives and which is now contained in clause 8 of the Bill. The purpose of the amendment was to extend to TPI pensioners certain benefits. I congratulate the Government for being prepared in that instance to accept an obviously desirable amendment which was moved by the Opposition. We are pleased that the Government was prepared to accept it. It is now incorporated in clause 8 of the Bill. We support the Bill. 
I direct a question to the' Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Is it a fact that the Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  during his recent visit to Indonesia committed Australia to an expansion of the current defence co-operation agreement with Indonesia? If so, for what period is that agreement extended? Is it correct that the value of the Australian aid is $20m? Did the Minister or any other Minister consider and compare the alternative of further extending the existing forms of civil and development aid to that country? Is military aid to neighbouring countries now a firm part of the Labor Government's policy? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I ask again the latter part of a question I asked previously and I seek an answer. Is military aid to neighbouring countries now a firm part of the Labor Government's policy? 
 Asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice; 
What was the precise cost of chartering the Qantas Airways Ltd jet aircraft for the Easter vacation round the world trip taken by the Prime Minister and some members of his family, and others? 
What was the total cost of sending the Royal Australian Navy Ship to Apia to be present whilst the Prime Minister was visiting Samoa in April 1973? 
What are the names of all persons carried at any stage on the chartered Qantas Airways Ltd flight referred to in part (1)? 

 Senator MURPHY - The Prime Minister has provided the following information for answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I take up first the assertion of 'Easter vacation'. During the Easter Parliamentary Recess,I led a Head of Government Mission overseas.I had official discussions in 5 countries inside 14 days. I was accompanied by my wife and daughter, by a party of advisers, and at various stages by representatives of the Press. I was back in Australia on the eve of the resumption of Parliament and I reported in full on my mission to Parliament on the first day of sitting. 
I represented Australia in Western Samoa where I met in conference the Heads of Government, several accompanied by their wives, of 6 other Commonwealth countries at the South Pacific Forum. 
In Canada I had discussions with the Prime Minister and the Premier of British Columbia and some of their Ministers. In Britain I had discussions with the Queen, the Prime Minister and several of his Ministers. In Italy I paid a call on the Pope and Signor Colombo, the former Prime Minister and senior Minister in Rome at that time. In Rhodes, on the Orthodox Good Friday, I had a day's vacation. In Mauritius I had discussions with the GovernorGeneral, the Prime Minister and other Ministers. 
I am informed that the net cost to the Australian Government of the chartered aircraft - like all Qantas long-range international aircraft since 1967, it was a jet - was approximately $85,000. I am informed also that the cost of covering the same routes by scheduled air services - though they were not available within the time bracket - would have been about $39,000. 
By chartering the aircraft, I was able to carry out the whole mission during the Parliamentary Recess and meet fixed commitments as well as the convenience of my hosts at various points. 
In addition, there were working facilities in flight, a greater measure of security, and a form of travel in line with that adopted by at least two of my predecessors, by the Heads of many other Governments, and in keeping with the status and dignity of the country I represent. 
HMAS 'Vampire' sailed for Apia on 9th April 1973, remained5 days and returned to Sydney on 28th April 1973. Had she not undertaken this voyage she would have been exercising in the Sydney-Jarvis Bay area from 9th-19th April and in Sydney from 19th -24th April prior to sailing for Port Kembla and Brisbane. Detailed accounts of any services supplied In Suva and Apia are not yet available but the Department of Navy advises that the costs involved In the Apia visit are not likely to be significantly greater than if she had carried out the exercise program which was earlier scheduled. 'Vampire's' presence in Apia provided a communications link for me and my delegation at the meeting of the South Pacific Forum. This was essential because civil communications facilities in Apia are limited and could not have handled the traffic between my delegation end Australia with the necessary speed and security. Vampire' also provided an appropriate means for me to carry out my official hospitality program. 
Persons accompanying the Prime Minister throughout: 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a report in the 'Australian' newspaper of 15th May suggesting that acting upon the Campbell report on university and college of advanced education staff salaries the Government will break the existing nexus between the rates of pay applying in universities and colleges of advanced education? Is the report accurate? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Transport indicate what is happening in relation to the proposal to restore the ship 'Straitsman' on a temporary basis to the King Island service? Is the Minister aware that the position in relation to Bass Strait island shipping to King Island and Flinders Island is now becoming extremely serious? 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Media. Are there any current plans or investigations under way for the provision of a second Australian Broadcasting Commission radio channel by way of relay for the people of northern Tasmania who at the moment can at best receive only the Victorian channel? If there are not will the Minister consider investigating the need for and the practicality of providing such a relay? 
I address a question to the 
Minister representing the. Treasurer. Is it a fact that the Treasurer has now realised that his intemperate attack upon all Australian permanent building societies was unfair and ill founded in its sweeping coverage? Was the purpose of that attack an attempt to create a run on the funds of building societies and so undermine their otherwise longstanding stability? Does the Minister know that the 4 permanent building societies in Tasmania, which have been in existence for 100 years or more, have recently been accepted by the Tasmanian State Government as trustee investments? Will the Treasurer make a statement withdrawing his allegations and stating the facts in relation to the true stability and community value of these organisations which provide home owning opportunities at reasonable rates to so many Australians? If his allegations are well founded in relation to any building societies, will he identify which building societies and so clear the others from his charges? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Did the Minister, on 29 March 1973, announce that the Government intended to take over the full financial responsibility for tertiary education in Australia. 
Did the Prime Minister, on 25 March 1973, in an address to the Victorian Conference of the Australian Labor Party, state that 'We already, before Christmas, set up the Interim Schools Commission which will make its report before the end of May which will, we expect, be put into force in the coming budget and which, with the co-operation of the States, to which we have writen, will mean that the Commonwealth can take over in the terms of the Party Platform, in the terms of the policy speech, in the terms of  Sir Paul's  opening address to the Parliament, will enable the Commonwealth to assume the responsibility for planning and financing tertiary education in Australia on the condition that the money so saved is spent on other forms of education.' 
Will the Minister state whether the Prime Minister's 'planning and financing', or his 'full responsibility for financing' is the Government's policy. 
If the Government intends to take over the planning of tertitary education in Australia, will the Minister make a full statement detailing its intention in this matter. 

 Senator DOUGLAS MCCLELLAND- The 
Minister for Education has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Government's intentions in regard to tertiary education are as announced in the Minister's statement of 29 March 1973, in which he said that the Australian Government has proposed to the Premiers an early Federal assumption of full responsibility for financing tertiary education. The Minister reminds the honourable senator that this matter is still subject to discussion with the States. Universities and colleges of advanced education have been established under State legislation and clearly the States will have a continuing concern with decisions about the role of these institutions. The Australian Government will need to develop over a period of time, through consultation with the States, an agreed pattern of responsibilities in the planning of tertiary education under the new financial arrangements. It should be remembered that the Australian Universities Commission and the Australian Commission on Advanced Education have already been involved, over a considerable period of time, in planning the development of tertiary institutions and in the process they have consultations with State authorities and with individual institutions. Inasmuch as a planning function is inherent in the making of financial decisions, obviously the Australian Government will be involved in planning to the extent that it will be involved in providing finance for tertiary education. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment and Conservation ascertain from his colleague whether he has studied the Senate committee reports on water and air pollution? Will he also ascertain from his colleague whether he accepts any of the recommendations of the committees concerned, and if so which ones? When are we to see some real action in relation to the protection of the environment? 
Following the course adopted last year, I shall refer this matter to the Committee for its view on the reply which should be given to the Senate: 
I present the following petition from 17 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To 'the Honourable The  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Tasmania respectfully showeth their objections to the proposed Legalisation of Abortion on Demand. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled should reject any Bill which ls] introduced and which would provide for abortion on demand, and your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
A petition in identical terms was presented by  Senator Murphy. 
Petition received. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Science: What progress has been made in creating and appointing members to the council of science and when is it likely that the council will be in operation? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Education. When will the report of the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission under the chairmanship of Professor Karmel be received by the Minister? Will it be made public? If so, will it be presented to the Parliament prior to the winter recess? In any event, in the interests of open government, will the Minister table all correspondence from any Government Minister to the Committee relating to any directive given to it concerning the conduct of its inquiry and the preparation of its report? 
 I move: 
That Clause 1 be postponed as an instruction to the Government: that the further consideration of the Bill be deferred until after the general inquiry into National Rehabilitation and Compensation by the Committee under the chairmanship of  Mr Justice  Woodhouse has reported - and further that the inquiry should take into account - social service benefits for invalidity; social service benefits for widowhood; repatriation benefits; road traffic compensation; workers' compensation; and  the need to cover self-employed persons and housewives. 
It is my somewhat melancholy task to move that amendment to clause1. Shortly I will explain the total effect of what is proposed by the amendment. Is is my melancholy task to move this motion because it appears to us that this legislation was hasty and, to an extent, illconceived. The intention behind the motion is that the Bill be deferred so that, when it is proceeded with by the Parliament, the Parliament will be able to take into account the recommendations made by a very important committee which has been set up and which has started its work. I refer to the committee of inquiry into national rehabilitation and compensation. That committee's terms of reference are certainly sufficiently wide for it to be involved in an investigation which will take it into areas partly covered by the Bill and partly covered by a lot of similar reasons for wishing to compensate people but which are in no way related to this Bill. If one looks at this matter from the point of view of the social context in which this type of legislation appears, it is quite obvious that to divorce this part from therest may lead to undesirable and even undesired results. 
The background to this motion is that when we were previously debating this Bill we expressed the Opposition's concern -  Senator 
Wright, in particular, elaborated on some of the aspects of the concern - about the provisions of this Bill. Therefore, on the motion of the Opposition, the matter was referred to the appropriate Senate Standing Committee - the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. That Committee did a good job of speedily inquiring into the matter referred to it and presented a report to the Senate. I believe the report shows the advantages which can be gained from the existence of Standing Committees and from the ability of the Senate now to refer matters such as this to a Committee for investigation and report back to the Senate speedily, explaining some of the matters which have been raised during the course of the Senate's consideration of a Bill. Shortly I will summarise the Committee's report. But before doing so, I should like to explain something else. 
The Opposition moves this motion after the matter has been considered by both the Parliamentary Liberal Party and by the Parliamentary Executive of the Liberal Party, and it is with the full co-operation of the other members of the Liberal Party that this motion has been moved. The Liberal Party, in its consideration of the matter, has agreed that, in the light of the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs and the disclosure of the exact details of the quantum of some of the benefits conferred by this legislation, the Bill requires further examination because the provisions in it are enormously out of step with all other forms of compensation for death or injury which exist in Australia at the present time. Therefore, whilst the Opposition is concerned to ensure that a certain section of the community is not disadvantaged, it certainly does not wish to see a very large section of the community disadvantaged. It is concerned to ensure fair treatment for all sections of the community. The considerations of any overall scheme as a result of the Woodhouse inquiry would be jeopardised by the premature introduction of the levels of compensation which are proposed by this Bill; levels which it is considered at this stage are unlikely to be able to be achieved for other sections of the community in any national scheme. 
Therefore, the Opposition in reaching the decision to move this motion recognises that its action will cause some persons to stand out of benefits which the Government proposes that those people should receive and which those people expect to receive. But it would be the Opposition's hope that these people will not be disadvantaged and that the Government may have some proposal to ameliorate any particular aspects pending consideration of the final Woodhouse report. 
I return now to elaborate in some detail on the particulars of the Standing Committee's report. What we find is that the level of compensation to be provided is taken so vastly out of proportion to that which already exists in Australia that we are concerned, and I use the example which the Committee used. The Committee referred to the fact that the compensation payable on an employee's death is a single lump sum paid for the benefit of dependants. The amounts paid under the present law are set out in the. Committee's report. At the present time the dependants of a Commonwealth employee receive $14,500. The lowest :ump sum, which is $12,208, is paid in Western Australia, and the highest lump sum, which is $15,000, is paid in South Australia. The lump sums paid in the other States are somewhere in between those 2 amounts. It is easily seen that there is a comparability around Australia in relation to the extent to which a lump sum can be paid in the event of death to the dependants of an employee who is killed in the course of his employment, which death gives rise to a claim under the workers compensation legislation. 
As is pointed out in the Committee's report, under the proposed legislation we could have the situation, for example, where the death of a public servant, a Commonwealth employee, who is in receipt, in round figures, of $30,000 of income a year, and who leaves a child, could result in the payment in all - for instance, if it were over a period of 20 years - of a sum of $316,500. That is just over $300,000 more than would be paid under State schemes at the present time. That would seem to us to be possibly so out of touch with reality and with what the community can provide, with justice to all sections pf the community, that the matter requires reconsideration. I use that only as one example because I wish to emphasise that the Opposition is concerned to ensure that there is equity to all sections of (fee community, not in any way to ensure that eoe section of the community is disadvantaged. And we make that quite clear. It is with bo intention to disadvantage a Commonweal!*. Public Servant, but rather to ensure that he is treated in a way which is comparable to the way in which the remainder of the community is treated. 
Consideration interrupted. 
 I have just received some information which I think is relevant to this debate. It is a telegram signed by the Queensland Minister for Housing. It states: 
Queensland objects strongly to limitation of sales to 30 per cent. This is unrealistic and must ultimately prevent tenants buying the houses in which they have lived and improved for some years. 
I think it is a relevant consideration that Queensland has made its attitude clear. Perhaps some Queensland senators will have some regard to what their Government thinks. 
The Opposition wishes to make some remarks in relation to this matter but, in view of the usual procedure and the state of the debate, I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General. Is it a fact that during the Federal election campaign last November leaders of the Australian Labor Party promised Tasmanian electors that early steps would be taken to recreate the Inter-State Commission with the objective, inter aiia, of assisting to overcome Tasmania's transport disabilities? Have any steps been taken to recreate the Inter-State Commission? 
The Opposition's attitude in relation to these Bills was -made clear in the House of Representatives and is affirmed in this chamber. We are taking 3 Bills together and briefly I remind the Senate that the principal Bill with which we are concerned is the Housing Agreement Bill, and that is the one to which I intend to address my remarks. However, I do think it important to refer very briefly to the effect of one of the other Bills, namely, the States Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill which provides for funds to be allocated for welfare housing for the first 6 months of 1973-74. The important point to which I direct attention in relation to that Bill is that the amount being provided is the same as the amount provided last year. Although we have heard much from the new Government about the tremendous importance of housing and the tremendous importance which is given to the adequacy of housing finance from the Commonwealth, at this stage it is not increasing the amount available to the States under this legislation; it is simply providing the same amount as was provided by the Australian Loan Council for housing purposes for 1972-73. 
I do think it important to draw attention to that matter before proceeding to discuss in more detail the housing agreement which is provided for in the Housing Agreement Bill. It is not as though the Commonwealth Government were providing some bonanza at this stage. I think in fairness, though, I should make it quite clear that the Commonwealth Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  has indicated that it is the Commonwealth's intention to increase the amount to be made available for housing and that it will do so at some future date. Presumably that is the reason for the limited period of 6 months provided for in the States Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill. 
I again emphasise that at this stage we are not dealing with a huge increase; what we are concerned with principally is the Bill which refers in very brief terms to the housing agreement which is annexed by way of a Schedule to the Housing Agreement Bill. The Bill provides that the Commonwealth may execute an agreement between the Commonwealth and any State or States substantially in accordance with the form contained in the Schedule. It provides further: 
The- Treasurer may, out of moneys lawfully available for the purpose, make advances to a State in accordance with an agreement executed in pursuance of this Act . . . 
So what we are really concerned with is the agreement itself or what is said to be the agreement. But it is interesting to note that it is far from being an agreement. A conference, attended by the Commonwealth and State Ministers for Housing held at Adelaide on Thursday, 5 April 1973, passed a motion to the effect that as an expression of the feeling of the State Ministers at that conference a different figure should be provided in relation to one particularly important aspect of the agreement. The difference in the figure was very substantial and I shall go on to explain that difference. The point I make at this stage is that to this date there has not been agreement between the Commonwealth and the States. 
There have been 2 meetings of the Ministers, a record of the full proceedings of which was in the pursuit of the laudable objective of open government, tabled in both Houses of the Parliament and made available to us. It makes very interesting reading and I would commend it to any honourable senator interested in seeing the extent to which the Commonwealth under this new Government is prepared to lord it over the States and force on to them things which they do not wish to have. The particular parts of the transcript to which I direct attention are those concerned with the latter part of the conference on 5 April when the Victorian Minister in particular, supported by the Housing Minister from Western Australia, the Housing Minister from Tasmania, and sympathetically supported by the 2 Ministers from the eastern States of Queensland and New South Wales made quite clear the disastrous effects which would be forced upon the States if the Commonwealth insisted on its pigheaded adherence to one particular point. 
As a matter of fact, I was just wondering how interested are some of the Labor senators in this particularly important matter of housing. I think there are four of them in the chamber at the moment and two of them are prattling like galahs. Otherwise nobody from that side is showing any interest in this matter. 
 1 am sorry, I was not counting  Senator. Gietzelt  as being present, but I see that he is now awake. The proposal with which we are particularly concerned - there were others about which the States expressed concern - is clause 19 of the agreement which provides: 
Subject to sub-clause (2.) of this clause, the Housing Authority of a State shall not sell more than 30 per centum of the family dwellings for the provision of which Housing Authority advances have been used and which are completed or purchased during the period of five years- 
I emphasise the term of 5 years -  commencing on the first day of January 1974. 
This means that the principle of home ownership followed to a very substantial extent by a number of the States, the principle believed in by the Liberal Party as being fundamental to the development of a desirable type of society, the principle believed in also by members of the Labor governments of Western Austra'ia and Tasmania, the principle believed in I think by a very large number of Australians is to be curtailed to a very significant extent for at least a period of 5 years. It was with concern that the Liberal Party found that this situation was being adhered to by the Commonwealth Government, notwithstanding the debate which took place in the House of Representatives. The Government was not prepared to accept an amendment moved by the Opposition. We find that the Government's attitude perhaps is expressed by the Press release of the Minister for Housing for 5 April, the day of the conference in Adelaide, in which he stated that agreement was reached on the major items. Obviously he did not regard the percentage of home ownership as being a major item.  His  Press release continues: 
The Federal Minister for Housing,  Mr Les  Johnson, speaking after the meeting - which lasted from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. - said that the desire by some Ministers for the limit on the sale of houses to be increased to 50 per cent would be taken into account by the Commonwealth when it drew up a final set of submissions to be put to the States. 
That statement was interesting. It gave the States some encouragement. But what happened? The Commonwealth did not take it into account in any tangible way when it presented the agreement just 48 hours before it presented the Bill in the House of Representatives. This was not done in the circumstance of there being a further conference at which the States could put their view and at which further negotiations could have taken place. The intransigent attitude adopted by the Federal Minister at the conference in Adelaide was continued in the consideration which he suggested he was giving in his Press statement afterwards. We find that there was no agreement by the States in relation to this matter. It is a matter of sufficient concern that, I understand, further meetings of the State Ministers are to be held to discuss just what is to happen in an endeavour to reach a true agreement. 
Obviously the fundamental question involved here is whether the Commonwealth is entitled to dictate to the States on a basis of saying: 'Whereas you used to be able to get this money which was made available through the Loan Council arrangements, we are now going to make it available under an agreement in relation to which we fix the terms, and you can take it or you can go without.' Apparently that is the approach adopted by the Commonwealth Government in relation to this matter. Are the States in an area such as housing, which it is their constitutional right to administer, to be dictated to in this way? It would be different if the normal terms of Commonwealth assistance to the States were being imposed but this goes to the very fundamentals of whether there is any discretion in relation to the administration of a scheme to be left to the States which have very strong and reasonable objections to being dictated to. My colleague, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the Senate,  Senator Greenwood,  will be speaking on this Bill and will elaborate in particular upon the Victorian situation and the difficulty which Victoria will find itself in if it is forced to subscribe to an agreement' - I put the word in inverted commas - such as is proposed by this Bill. 
After the debate in the House of Representatives the Liberal Party and the Executive of the Liberal Party both considered what should happen in relation to this Bill. We asked ourselves should we pursue the amendment? Do we regard it as sufficiently important an interference with States rights and with a principle which is believed to be' fundamental to the general philosophy of the Liberal Party and the good of this country that we should take this action?  lt  is as a consequence of those discussions to which I have referred that I indicate that in the Committee stage I will be pursuing that amendment. It is the principle of home ownership which, above ail else, is of concern to the Opposition in this Chamber. We believe that the people of Australia will be best served by having an adequate opportunity to purchase through housing schemes the homes in which they intend to reside. The incentive which is provided to those people to look after and develop their homes; the incentive to take pride in ownership; the incentive to look after the development of the area in which they reside; the feeling of belonging; the community spirit which can develop from home ownership are incentives which are regarded as socially desirable. lt is also important to consider what will happen if the Commonwealth Government's proposals are adhered to. Will there be a decrease in the availability of low rental housing? To what extent is the Commonwealth Government really dealing with a need, as it claims to be, for the provision of rental housing as opposed to housing available for purchase? Those States which have pursued the philosophy adopted by the Opposition in this chamber of endeavouring to provide people with the opportunity to own their own home and, amongst other things, to have some hedge against inflation, something which will become an increasing problem as we on this side of the chamber are all too well aware, an increasing problem as this reckless Government rushes on its way down the path of inflation, do not wish to see people, particularly people whose circumstances we regard as needy, not given any opportunity to obtain that hedge against inflation, to build up funds which may perhaps give them a deposit on a house at some later stage should they wish to move to some other place. No, it is to be insisted upon that 70 per cent of the funds available is for rental housing and only 30 per cent for homes to be purchased. lt is interesting to note from the transcript of proceedings of a meeting of people who can reasonably be expected to know, that is, the Ministers for Housing in the States, that they believe the demand for homes for purchase is greater than the demand for rental homes and that the need for rental homes can be satisfied if the division provided for each category in the agreement is SO-SO. I think that they can be regarded as being at least in a responsible position to be able to state what is the need, but big brother in the image of the Minister for Housing,  Mr Les  Johnson, decides, contrary to what he is told by the States and the people directly responsible, that in his view and in the view of the Commonwealth Government the situation is different from what they say it is. He even claimed that the Commonwealth Government had a mandate. 'Mandate' is a word that we have become almost nauseated from hearing. Let me give back to the Government a little bit of that.  Mr Les  Johnson has suggested that the Commonwealth Government has a mandate to do this. There has just been an election in Victoria in which the people of that State made it very clear which party they would prefer to have in government in Victoria, a State in which one of the important aspects of the policy put by the Victorian Government to the people was homeownership. The people overwhelmingly endorsed that policy and gave the Victorian Minister for Housing and the Victorian Premier a clear mandate to insist upon this provision being altered from 30 per cent to 50 per cent. 
If the Labor Party wishes to talk about mandates let it take into account the other side of the coin which is that there is a clear mandate, at least as far as the Victorian Government is concerned in respect of its constitutional right to govern its own housing. The people of Victoria expressed themselves on this in the same way as they accepted the invitation of the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  to express themselves upon the actions of the Senate. This should be remembered if this principle of a mandate is to be pursued. However, I have not heard much of that argument since 19 May. It may well be said that if the amendment I propose to move at the committee stage, which if carried will alter the housing agreement to provide not 30 per cent but 50 per cent of funds for homes to be purchased, goes back to the House of Representatives and that House decides that it will not deal with it, and agree to it. today before it rises some problems may arise in regard to funds for housing. I can say only that  Mr Les  Johnson himself has answered that point. 
I refer to the transcript of the proceedings of the meeting between Federal and State Ministers in Adelaide on 5 April.  Mr Les  Johnson was asked what would happen if Victoria refused to sign any agreement providing for only 30 per cent of funds for housing for purchases.  Mr Dickie,  the Victorian 
Minister, said that Victoria would refuse to accept that proposition.  Mr Les  Johnson said, as recorded at page 125 of the transcript: 
If after an agreement has been prepared and Victoria, for example, chooses not to be a party to it as a recipient of the concessional advances on the terms and conditions proposed by the Commonwealth, several things could happen. I suppose the status quo could prevail in regard to that State, the matter would become the prerogative of the Loan Council- 
I pause there to emphasise that he said the prerogative would become that of the Loan Council - or of discussions between the Premier and the Prime Minister. I would not regard myself as being competent to identify the potential area of compromise or of new arrangements. It would be a matter to be followed up, if we reach that position. 
What is made clear by the Minister for Housing,  Mr Les  Johnson, is that if this agreement is not approved at this stage it is still possible for the Loan Council, meeting very shortly, to make the necessary arrangements, as it has in the past, for the provision of housing finance for the next 6 months, which is all that will happen anyway. What the Commonwealth is doing is insisting on this House passing an agreement which is objected to by all the States, some more strongly than others, and giving no funds over and above the arrangements which have existed up to the time of this agreement, that is, $84. 5m to be provided by the Loan Council. 
As I have said, when we reach the Committee stage I will be moving that amendment. I do so in the interests of equity to the States and equity to the people of Australia, and in order to provide an opportunity for them to have an adequate chance, through the common fund out of the public purse and through the State housing authorities, to purchase a home if they wish to do so instead of being required in the vast majority of cases to rent a home. 
Because other speakers will deal with this matter and because a large body of legislation has to be dealt with, I shall refrain from delving further into some of the iniquities that are proposed. I simply draw attention to the fact that in the House of Representatives a number of them were pointed out by various speakers on behalf of the Opposition. I remind the Minister for Works  (Senator Cavanagh)  that these matters have been pointed out. It is to be hoped that at some time in the future the Minister for Housing will pay some attention to them. 
I refer now to the double standards which are being applied, and I think it is interesting to read from the transcript of the proceedings of the conference to which I referred. In the initial agreement the Commonwealth wished to impose certain restrictions in relation to environmental matters. Because the new Commonwealth Government is not particularly concerned about the environment and because the regard which it has for the environment is only a matter of window dressing and flag waving, the Minister gave way in relation to that. But he would not give way in relation to the proportion of total homes which can be sold. He regarded it as absolutely vital that the States could not, as a matter of their own discretion, allot funds for rental as opposed to purchase or for purchase as opposed to rental. 
This seems to me to indicate a peculiar attitude on the part of the Commonwealth Cabinet because at the conference the Commonwealth Minister said that he had instructions from Cabinet about what he could agree to and what he could not agree to. He was quite prepared to give way in relation to environmental matters but not in relation to something as fundamental as this matter. The refusal to allow a discretion to allot funds in whatever way the States think fit is objected to by the States. Perhaps this shows where the Commonwealth's priorities lie. It is prepared to override the States in relation to the fundamental administration of the Agreement, but is not prepared to override them in relation to environmental matters. The only objection by the States to the environmental matters was that it was only another form of Commonwealth interference. The Commonwealth gave way in one instance but was not prepared to give way in another. 
I suggest that the Bills are yet another example of the product of a government which is determined to take from the States the right to determine their future even in areas in which they have clear constitutional power to determine their future. The people of those States have expressed themselves clearly as to what they want to happen in a particular area such as that of housing. 
 I move: 
In the Schedule, clause 19, sub-clause (1.), leave out '30', insert '50'. 
I will speak briefly to my amendment. I remind honourable senators that clause 19(1.) in its present form reads: 
Subject to sub-clause (2.) of this clause, the Housing Authority of a State shall not sell more than 30 per centum of the family dwellings for the provision  of which housing authority advances have been used and which are completed or purchased during the period of five years commencing on the first day of January 1974. 
The amendment proposes to change from 30 per cent to 50 per cent the number of dwellings available for purchase. As the Minister for Works  (Senator Cavanagh)  has indicated, this aspect has been debated already. The reasons for moving the amendment have been made abundantly clear, I believe, and certainly have not been answered by any real debate other than perhaps the considerations put forward by  Senator Little.  I pause only to reply to some of the absurdities in what was put otherwise in reply.  Senator Wright  has commented on the wisdom which fell from the lips of  Senator Negus. 
I should like to refer to something which the Minister for Works quoted because I think that he may not have read far enough into the transcript of proceedings of the meeting of Housing Ministers on 5 April. So that he can reconsider the position, I simply suggest that he should not read only from page 115 where  Mr Lowe,  the Tasmanian Minister for Housing, is reported as saying that he thinks Tasmania could live with the situation and that it is within Tasmania's capabilities to reduce the percentage. But he makes it quite clear that he is not happy about the situation. At page 122 of the transcript he is reported as actually moving an amendment to the motion, the wording of which was: 
That, as an expression of the feeling of State Ministers at this conference the figure '50' be inserted. 
If that is not making it quite clear that Tasmania was no more happy than the others, then I do not know what would make it clear. 
lt is on page 122 of the transcript. That amendment was carried, as appears quite clearly from page 123. That was an amendment to a motion which had been moved by  Mr Bruxner,  the Minister for Housing in New South Wales. Although New South Wales was not particularly inconvenienced by this requirement, it was prepared to resist this infringement of State rights and to support the amendment to the motion which provided for 50 per cent. The amendment was supported by the Western Australian Labor Minister for Housing and subsequently by the other Ministers present. The  Chairman, Mr Dunstan,  is recorded as not having voted. I simply point that out because I hope that the Minister will reconsider his position, because the States, including the States of the same political persuasion as his own Government, are virtually unanimously against h&lt;m. The States made it quite clear, and I thought' it would help the Minister if I pointed that out to him. 
When this Bill was last before the Senate earlier this week I indicated the course the Opposition proposed to follow and some of the reasons for doing so. On behalf of the Opposition I moved a motion in relation to clause 1, the clause with which we are now dealing, in the following terms: 
That clause 1 be postponed as an instruction to the Government: that the further consideration of the Bill be deferred until after the general inquiry into National Rehabilitation and Compensation by the Committee under the chairmanship of  Mr Justice  Woodhouse has reported - and further that the inquiry should take into account - social service benefits for invalidity; social service benefits for widowhood; repatriation benefits; road traffic compensation; workers' compensation; and the need to cover self-employed persons and housewives. 
The reasons for the Opposition moving this motion were outlined briefly last time the mater was debated. I simply reiterate that, in the interests of fairness to the whole community and because of concern that one section of the community is being placed in a position so advantageous in relation to other sections of the community, this matter requires consideration in its proper perspective - a perspective which should be available in the not too distant future when the Woodhouse Committee presents its  report.  That Committee has been set up. It is not a case of waiting for a body to be set up to investigate the matter. 
Another point to which I referred when the matter was last before us was that we had referred this Bill to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs for report. A very valuable report was presented by that Committee. I should like to refer to certain sections of that report. I point out that a supplementary submission was presented by  Senator Byrne, Senator Durack  and  Senator Wright.  I understand that  Senator Wright  will be addressing us in relation to this matter and will refer to some sections of his supplementary submission. I shall not refer to them at this stage. I refer to paragraph 15 of the Committee's report, which states: 
Turning from death, to the case of incapacity, 
for certain specified injuries the employee is entitled to a lump sum, for  example,  to take two instances: 

<graphic href="056232197306014_35_1.jpg"></graphic>

Those are examples of the type of increase which is provided for in this Bill. They are very substantial increases. The report continues: 
This sum is in addition to the weekly payment pay able for total incapacity mentioned below; the lump sum is payable whether the loss of the limb causes loss of earning capacity or not. 
A very generous provision is being made which we suggest, as I will be reiterating shortly, is out of keeping with other awards and compensation available to other sectors of the community. The report states further: 
The amounts of lump sum payments are being greatly increased in this Bill, in which for the first time in Australia lump sum payments for death are being superseded by weekly payments. Furthermore, for the first time in workers' compensation legislation, lump sum payments are to be added not only for specified injuries but, under proposed section 39 (8), for 'loss of any part of the body or faculty' not specified - the amount being directed to be 'fair and reasonable'. Attention is drawn to the wide discretion conferred by this sub-section and by the proposed new section 39 (6). 
The Committee points out that there is an apparent anomaly in the amounts specified in the schedule for certain hand injuries: The percentage of compensation payable In respect of the loss together of the thumb and four fingers of one hand is fixed at 80 per cent. While the amount payable in respect of the loss of the thumb and the four fingers separately aggregates a total of 106 per cent. 
Obviously, that is a matter to which the Government can give attention when it has time to reconsider this Bill. The report continues: 
for total incapacity - in addition to the lump sum for specified injuries, he is entitled to an amount equal to his average weekly earnings before injury and, as mentioned earlier, there is no limit set by the level of salary. 
The report makes it clear that this is quite a different development in workers compensation legislation. 1 think that it has many desirable aspects and I wish the Minister to know that I - and, I am sure, all other members of the Opposition - welcome some of the developments. In particular, I refer to the provision which is being made in an endeavour to reduce the incidence of industrial accidents. It is a very important endeavour and one which my Party has espoused over the years, but one which I personally believe has not in the past received as much attention as it should have received. The National Safety Council has been trying to encourage industrial safety. The figures - and I believe they are well known - indicating the difference in the accident rate between groups which have a modern safety conscious program to reduce the incidence of accidents and groups which have not show quite remarkable differences. I believe that the Government should be complimented on the introduction of certain provisions of this Bill. 
There are other desirable developments but I shall not take up the time of the Senate indentifying them in particular. I wish to make it clear that although we are concerned about the social implications of this legislation we are not opposed to the principle of the legislation in any way at all. We are opposed only to the way in which the legislation may operate to the detriment of various sectors of the community. We are concerned as to whether the community can afford to take the step to provide for one relatively small section benefits which will not be available to much larger sections of the community. Some examples are given in the supplementary report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. It shows that various people in the employment of the Commonwealth could receive very large sums of money under the provisions of this Bill. I believe  Senator Wright  will be dealing with that matter later. It may be thought that some of the examples are extreme. One refers to a person earning a salary of $20,000 a year. I think it would be of interest to honourable senators to have a look at the types of salaries which are being paid to public servants who would be covered by the provisions of this Bill. I note that the Governor of the Reserve Bank of Australia, who is classed as a First Division officer in the Commonwealth Public Service, receives a salary of $32,650. 
1 am coming to that,  Senator. I  accept that there is less likelihood of a person in that occupation having an accident, although heart disease does take its toll, particularly amongst the higher paid bracket. That is apparent from recent figures 1 have seen. 
The  Chairman  of the Tariff Board receives $29,250 a year. There are very many similar salaries above $25,000. The salary range in the Second Division is $14,500 to $22,000. On 31 January 1973 there were 957 officers in the Second Division. The salary range in the Third Division is just on $4,000 to $12,500, in round figures. -I will give some further examples. A grade 5 teacher receives $12,000. A class 2 veterinary officer - who may be kicked by a bull or something else - receives $10,930. 
I knew I would eventually get some reaction. A class 5 medical officer receives $17,827, which is an exception for a Third Division officer. As  Mr Slater  seems to be interested in this matter I mention that a senior mail officer, grade 4, receives just on $5,000 a year. In June 1972, which are the latest figures I have, there were 67,500 Third Division employees. I feel that those figures do give some idea of the range of salaries with which we are concerned when we are considering paying 100 per cent or, in some cases more than 100 per cent, as salary reimbursement to people who do have claims. As opposed to that we have the situation where pensioners - returned servicemen, age and widow pensioners - and various other people in the community obtain from the public purse relatively small amounts when considered against the sort of amounts that have been provided for in this Bill. I wonder whether the Government would argue that a returned serviceman receiving a total and permanent incapacity pension, for instance, injured in the course of serving his country, was any less deserving of proper compensation out of the public purse than a member of the Public Service injured in the course of his employment on behalf of the country. I wonder whether the Government would argue that cases involving civil damages for people injured in car accidents, or through the fault of an employer or what have you, warrant less than the amount provided for Commonwealth employees who suffer incapacity or death during the course of their employment. 
Those are the things which concern the Opposition. We believe that there should be social justice and equity in the approach taken to compensating various sectors of the community, all of whom are entitled to consideration from the public purse. We believe also that account must be taken of the maximum level which the remainder of the community can bear in assisting in providing compensation to people in the community who are justifiably entitled to that assistance. This is the very essence of the investigation by  Mr Justice  Woodhouse and his report will cover it. The Opposition believes that before the pace making step provided by this Bill is taken there should be consideration of the report of  Mr Justice  Woodhouse and what is practical for the whole community and at what levels various types of compensation should be struck. 
I feel I must emphasise that the standover tactics and threats of  Mr Slater,  apparently made on behalf of his union, although I know a number of unionists who would dissociate themselves from the type of tactics adopted by him, to members of this Parliament about what will happen to them if they carry out their function as they see fit, conjure up a terrible prospect. No member of Parliament, on either side of this chamber, should be threatened with action consequential upon what his vote may be or what he does in representing the people of this country. It is an impossible situation and one which I trust  Mr Slater  and those who support him may yet reconsider. Whether he reconsiders it or whether he makes any threat, I and the Opposition generally propose to proceed with the motion I have moved. We believe that social justice requires it and therefore we shall proceed as indicated. 
Perhaps there is some misunderstanding so I shall endeavour to clarify the position. The Opposition does not wish the Government to be put in a position where it does not have sufficient time to discuss and consider what it wishes to do in relation to  Senator Byrne's  amendment. Accordingly the Opposition is prepared to suggest that the Government may wish to adjourn this debate to give it time to consider its attitude to  Senator Byrne's  amendment. I repeat, however, that the Opposition will be supporting the amendment moved by  Senator 
Byrne, but so that the Government may have time to consider its position I simply suggest that this debate be now adjourned. 
I take the opportunity simply to indicate that whilst the Opposition supports this Bill, the Bill provides for less than what the Opposition would have proposed had it been re-elected to government. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I refer to clause 4 which reads in part: 
After section 7 of the Principal Act the following sections are inserted: 
The financial assistance by way of payment of an amount to a State under sub-section (1) is granted on the condition that the State will ensure that the amount is applied towards assisting students in need. 
I move: 
Leave out sub-section (2) of proposed section 7a, insert the following sub-section: 
The financial assistance by way, of payment of an amount to a State under sub-section (1) is granted on the conditions that - 
the State will ensure that the amount is applied towards assisting students in need; and 
the State will furnish annually to the Commis sion statistics and information in respect of the application of the amount by the State. 
By way of brief explanation I simply refer back to the matters which I raised in the second reading debate as to the reasons why the Opposition wishes to move this amendment. I reiterate that it is not intended in any way to curtail or inhibit the operation of the colleges of advanced education in the application of these funds but rather to assist in looking at the future operation and assessing the need for further assistance of this or some other similar type. The amendment is in this form because the Bill provides that the money is to be paid to the States and not directly to the colleges. It is the States which then organise for the money to be paid to the colleges. Provision (a) of the amendment which I moved is already contained in the Bill. The only additional part which we propose is the part under sub-paragraph (b) which requires the States to furnish annually to Colleges of Advanced Education Commission statistics and information in respect of the application of the moneys by the States. It is my understanding that the general aspects of what information is required are well known to the Commission and will be known to the States. It will be possible to be able to supply the statistics in the Commission's report which is presented to the Parliament. I have therefore moved the amendment and seek the cooperation of the Committee in supporting it. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to reports of a letter written recently to the heads of African states by the former  President  of Uganda,  Dr Obote,  referring to allegations of torture and other atrocities and the mass murder of between  80,000  and  90,000  Ugandans by President Amin's regime? What is the view of the Australian Government on these allegations? Are they well founded? If they are, what action does the Government intend to take to have the United Nations take some action in relation to this apparently illegal and apparently tyrannical and genocidal regime? 

 - I wish again to intervene in this debate to remind the Senate of certain aspects of the Opposition's attitude to this Bill as already stated in the debate at various stages of the Bill. I should like to refer to them very briefly. When this matter was being debated on 12 April and when, on the motion of the Opposition, the Bill was referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs for a report, I stated - my remarks appear at page 1080 of Hansard - that: 
This is not to say that the Opposition opposes in any way the principle of having a generous and appropriate workers compensation scheme for Commonwealth employees. 
Later, I said: 
We are noi saying that our concern is so categorically fixed in its opposition to any particular provision that we oppose the Bill in any way at this stage, but rather we are saying that we have a concern as to the meaning and effect, economic and social, of some of the amendments. 
Those statements were made prior to receiving the Committee's report. Subsequent to receiving that report and on 30 May 1973, at page 2121 of Hansard, when the debate was resumed, I said: 
If one looks at this matter from the point of view of the social context in which this type of legislation appears, it is quite obvious that to divorce this part from the rest may lead to undesirable and even undesired results. 
Later, I said: 
Therefore, the Opposition in reaching the decision to move this motion -  which is the motion before the Chair at the moment -  recognises that its action will cause some persons to stand out of benefits which the Government proposes that those people should receive and which those people expect to receive. But it would be the Opposition's hope that these people will not be disadvantaged and that the Government may have some proposal to ameliorate any particular aspects pending consideration of the final Woodhouse report. 
I wish to emphasise again for the benefit of the Government, particularly for the last  speaker  on the Government side,  Senator James  McClelland, and also for the benefit of  Senator Byrne  who spoke on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, that I stated:   it would be the Opposition's hope that these people will not be disadvantaged and that the Government may have some proposal to ameliorate any particular aspects pending consideration of the final Woodhouse report  1 sum up by saying that the Opposition does not wish to oppose the amendments to the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Act which are highly desirable and which do not have the effect of creating an impossible position for the introduction of some comprehensive, across the board scheme of national compensation. I think that 2 situations arise. The first is that it is up to the Government to provide adequate resources to the Woodhouse Committee so that it may undertake a speedy inquiry and reach a speedy completion. I point out that  Mr Justice  Woodhouse is experienced in this field having conducted a similar inquiry in New Zealand. No doubt this will assist him in reaching conclusions on what is appropriate to recommend in Australia. 1 repeat that we of the Opposition do not wish to delay the implementation of many of the provisions of this Bill which we see as highly desirable. We do suggest that the Government may like to take the opportunity during the recess to redraw the Bill to overcome the basic objection taken by the Opposition and to introduce legislation which will ameliorate  -  I give but one example - the sort of problem which exists where there is a limited period of full benefits and then a reduction. Consider the case of a man who is on the national average wage or slightly above and who suddenly, after 6 months, finds himself back on a limit of $64. This is a situation which will seriously and adversely affect his personal life and his family's life, and make his recovery more difficult. We believe that a number of aspects could be introduced without having adverse effects upon the general problem which we have raised and which the Committee raised in ils report. We see this as being likely to mean that if the Bill were passed in its entirety in its present form there would be one elitist section in relation to compensation provisions compared with the rest of the community such as widows, housewives, persons involved in motor car accidents and all the other people it is hoped will be covered by some across the board compensation scheme. 
I indicate at this stage that it would be in accord with the general intention put forward by the Opposition when we first raised the matter on 12 April and which I repeated when I spoke on 30 May not to hold people from a number of the necessary desirable aspects of this Bill. However, it is our concern that social equity should prevail and that a scheme is not introduced in this country which will mean that we cannot have comparability between schemes for various people in the community. I therefore indicate that the Opposition views with some favour an amendment such as that proposed by  Senator Byrne.  Speaking on behalf of the Opposition I point out that if, at a later stage,  Senator Byrne  moves an amendment such as he has indicated, it is likely to receive the support of the Opposition as an amendment to its motion. This will be an opportunity for the Government to take action along the lines which I have suggested on 2 occasions to the Minister in charge of this Bill and 10 the Government in this chamber. 
I understand that we are to have a cognate second reading debate on the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill, the States Grants (Universities) Bill, the States Grants (Universities) Bill (No. 2) and the States Grants (Technical Training) Bill- If the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  would like to make, the necessary arrangements and if other honourable senators are agreeable, I indicate that the Opposition is happy to follow that course. 
 I refer to clause 3, which reads: 
After section 11 of the Principal Act the following section is inserted: 11a. (1) In relation to each University specified in the Eighth Schedule there is payable, in the year that commenced on 1st January, 1973, to the State in which the University is situated, for the purpose of financial assistance, the amount specified in the second column of the Eighth Schedule opposite to the name of that University. 
The financial assistance to a State by way of payment of an amount under this section in relation to a University is granted on the conditions that - 
the State will, without undue delay, pay, that amount to the University; and 
the State will ensure that the amount so paid to the University is applied by the University towards assisting students in need. 
In this section, "student in need" means a student enrolled at a University specified in the Eighth Schedule who is determined by that University to be experiencing hardship by reason of his financial circumstances'. 
I move: 
In proposed section 11a (2), paragraph (a), leave out 'and1. 
In proposed section 11a (2), paragraph (b), leave out 'need', insert 'need; and'. 
At end of sub-section (2) of proposed section 11a, add the following paragraph: 
the State will, as a condition of the payment to the University, require the University to furnish annually to the Commission statistics and information in respect of the application of the amount by the University.'. 
The first 2 amendments are. simply consequential alterations to provide for an extra paragraph and are of only a technical nature. The third amendment seeks to insert words which will provide as a condition of the payment to the university that the university will be required to provide to the Australian Universities Commission statistics and information in respect of the application of the moneys provided to that university for use in assisting needy students. The reasons for the Opposition's amendment have already been outlined. I simply explain that there are no changes from the situation outlined during the second reading debate on the Sates Grants (Advanced Education) Bill. 
 Mr Chairman 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport aware that the Tasmanian Government has announced that it has chartered the motor vessel 'Blithe Star' for a period of 3 months to operate the King Island shipping service? Is Commonwealth assistance of any type being given to the Tasmanian Government in relation to that charter operation? 
 Mr President,  I wish to ask  a  supplementary question. I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport whether he will indicate further what would be the basis of the payment of the subsidy. Would it be a subsidy to the Tasmanian Government by way of grant; would it be a subsidy rated on a tonnage basis, or by what other means is the subsidy proposed to be made available? 
These Bills are being dealt with together. Basically they relate to an extra provision being made for a previously not catered for section of the community, namely, supporting mothers. The Bills provide benefits under the social services legislation, the national health scheme and in relation to broadcasting and television licences for supporting mothers. The measures are supported by the Opposition. I wish at this stage to make it clear that the Opposition does nothing other than support the introduction of this desirable welfare legislation. 
It is yet again an example of the advantage which is accruing to Australia as a result of the sound economic management by the Liberal-Country Party Government over a period of 23 years. Continual improvements in welfare legislation and the provision of added benefits to the community can be the product only of a community which is able to pay for them because the economy has been soundly managed and is able to stand the cost of the added benefits. As on previous occasions, I simply take the opportunity to issue the warning to the new Government that not only it is desirable that a government should provide, so far as it possibly can, benefits to all sections of the community which are deserving of them and which need them, but also it is desirable and in fact essential that the Government should see to the management of the economy to ensure that its growth will continue to be able to provide that type of assistance. In the 6 months or so of the new Government's administration we have seen an attitude which makes one wonder for how long these benefits will be of real value unless the benefits are continually, almost every few months, increased. The rate of inflation which is becoming evident and which will certainly be exacerbated substantially as a result of the economic mismanagement of the new Government will erode the benefits as fast as they are provided. 
I again warn the Government that its economic management of Australia is little short of disastrous. The gallup polls which have been revealing an increasing disillusionment with the Government are reflective of the concern of the average Australian with that type of management because it means that people's savings are not worth as much as they are thought to be worth. The ability of people to provide for themselves has been eroded as a result of rapid inflation. Great concern is evident not only in the Opposition's ranks, but also amongst the voting public of Australia. 
I pause now to mention a matter in the National Health Bill. The Bill provides for a relatively small amendment to the Act for the provision of hearing aids to supporting mothers. This is part of the overall scheme of these Bills which are being dealt with together. The Bill provides for hearing aids to be made available for the sum of $10 to eligible persons. I take the opportunity to raise a matter that I raised with the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  by letter some time ago. I inquired whether he could assist by informing me what was considered to be a reasonable cost of hearing aids. 1 had received representations from a constituent in Tasmania who had said that to purchase a hearing aid inserted in a pair of spectacles appeared to cost an exorbitant sum. He feared that some racket might be operating and he asked me to inquire of the Government what was considered to be a reasonable cost for this type of service because the Government is concerned in the provision of hearing aids to eligible people. I was surprised to learn, in reply to my written represen tations, that the Government did not know, that it had made no inquiries as to the reasonable cost, and in effect it could not care less. 
I find this attitude extraordinary in a government which has introduced prices justification legislation, which has proclaimed its concern to look after the interests of the consumer and which is responsible for the administration of the national health scheme in which hearing aids specifically are being paid for out of the public purse. I was given a reply which can be summed up in this way: We do not know and we do not care'. I raised this matter because if that is the way in which public money raised by taxing people all over Australia is being administered by this new Government, it is a disgrace. If there is some other explanation for the reply I received I would be delighted to hear it. If the Minister is able to supply some information in answer to the request I made originally about the cost of hearing aids in spectacles I would be glad to hear it. Has somebody cornered the market and is able to charge whatever he likes? Generally, what assistance can the Government give in relation to  a  reasonable price that a person who does not qualify for a hearing aid under the national health scheme must pay? 
Another point I wish to make relates to the class of Bills with which we are dealing. If there is any suggestion that some of these Bills have been held up as a result of the Opposition's activities I should like to draw attention to the fact that when the Bills were introduced into the House of Representatives the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  stated: 1 wish to say to the honourable gentleman- 
That is the Minister handling the legislation in the other place - that the Opposition will support this legislation. We would not want to see the benefits deferred until the Budget session. Therefore, we will co-operate with the Government in order to give this Bill a quick passage throughout the Parliament. 
The Leader of the Opposition was speaking about the Social Services Bill (No. 3), one of the Bills which we are debating today. However, notwithstanding that statement by the Leader of the Opposition the Minister refused to go on with consideration of the legislation immediately. It could have been passed quickly, but it was held up. Admittedly this was for only a short period but it was held up. 
I refer to the education Bills which we dealt with a few nights ago. They too were ready and could have been dealt with in less than an hour. In fact they had been ready for some 4 or 5 weeks. The Government knew that the Opposition would not oppose them. We proposed an amendment which the Government was prepared to accept. The amendment would not have caused any undue delay, and we of the Opposition were anxious to have the legislation disposed of just as we have been anxious to have the social services legislation passed through this House at the first opportunity. But the rearrangement of business has meant that the Government has been holding back matters which it knew could have a speedy passage, and has been substituting controversial matters for consideration by this chamber. That legislation is important and is supported by the Opposition. It could have been given speedy passage. One or two of the Bills could have been passed through each day without any problem. 
I take this opportunity to refute the suggestion that the Opposition has been in any way holding up the passage of some legislation. I take the opportunity to point out also that this is not entirely unrelated to the general question of the amendments which have been moved by the Opposition and in respect of which there has been some discussion. It has been suggested that the Opposition is doing something extraordinary by moving amendments to some Bills. I simply remind honourable senators that in the February to June session last year when the Liberal-Country Party Government was in office, 10 Bills were amended by this Senate as a result of the activities of the then Opposition, the now Government. In the August to October session last year 4 Bills were amended as a result of the activities of the then Opposition, the now Government. I also point to the fact that part of this whole campaign by the Government has been to reduce the debating time available to this chamber. 
For these 3 Bills. Far more importantly, I believe that the Government has not been prepared to answer questions. We have repeatedly seen the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  move to close off question time after one hour on a pretence that this is approximately the length of time which was allowed previously. I have taken out some statistics to see whether this is correct. In the last session, before the change of government, that is the August to October session in 1972, the average length of question time was 78 minutes, which is 18 minutes more than this new Government is prepared to allow us to ask questions of it in this chamber. In the February to June session last year a period of 80 minutes was allowed for question time, and in the August to December session of 1971 the period was 82 minutes. This suggestion that the length of question time being limited to an hour is normal is absolute and utter rubbish. It is untrue, and the figures available in the statistics published on behalf of the Senate indicate that that is so. Question time has been curtailed as a result of this Government's refusal to permit us to conduct the sort of questioning which we as an Opposition believe that we  aTe  entitled to have. The Government is frightened to answer questions in the same way as it is frightened to permit a full debate to take place on matters which are contested. 
I simply summarise by saying that I take the opportunity to mention those matters, whilst at the same time indicating that we support legislation which we agree is providing desirable benefits to people. But we reiterate our warning that the economic mismanagement of this country, if it continues at its present pace, will nullify the benefits being given. We support these 3 Bills. 
The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. I shall speak briefly to it. This Bill simply varies the legislation enacted by the previous LiberalCountry Party Government to create an Institute of. Marine Science at Townsville. It has been found, as a result of investigation, that the site which was believed to be suitable for the Institute is, in fact, not suitable and the Council has requested that arrangements be made to alter the legislation to enable it to select on the tropical coast of Queensland a site which would be suitable in every way for the placing of the Institute. The Opposition is anxious to see this legislation passed and to see the Institute become a reality. It was an idea which was promoted by the LiberalCountry Party Government and one which we support in every way. It is important to the development of Australia that the Institute should, as soon as possible, be able to undertake the research and development work which is envisaged for it. Accordingly, the Opposition will not in any way delay the passage of the Bill. We support it. 
 The Opposition does not oppose these Bills and I propose to deal but briefly with them. Basically they are the result of work carried out by the Joint Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation. The appointment of that Committee was very largely the work of  Mr John  Jess, the former Liberal member for La Trobe in the House of Representatives. That Committee worked hard and well and produced a report which endeavoured amongst other things to introduce a greater degree of equity and simplicity into the defence forces retirement benefits scheme. I think that this chamber could do well to record its recognition of the value of the work done by that Committee. I ask the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop)  whether he might like to consider formally recognising the work which was dons by that Committee and the value of the report which it produced. I personally would like to compliment in particular  Mr John  Jess for the workhe did. 
I am delighted to hear  Senator Devitt  join me in that compliment. The Committee carried out a task which was perhaps overdue in the eyes of many people. The task certainly was undertaken with enthusiasm and the net result, although in a somewhat jumbled form, comes before us in this legislation. It was mentioned in the House of Representatives that simplicity in the scheme has not been achieved, and it may be that the Government, upon reviewing the debate which took place in the House of Representatives, and which I do not intend to take up time in repeating in this chamber but which I reassert, will consider some of the criticisms and comments which were made. I think some of them were substantially accepted by  Mr Barnard,  who was the Minister in charge of the legislation in the House of Representatives. I simply draw that matter to  Senator Bishop's  attention and ask him to pass it on to the Minister. 
It may be that there would be advantage in reconsidering some aspects of the Bill. However, it is not a matter which should be held up by this chamber at this time. It is for that reason, without going into the matter in detail, I indicate the Opposition's attitude. We support the legislation with the hope that the suggestion which was made in this afternoon's Press - that the legislation will result in large scale resignations from the defence forces - will not in fact be the product of this desirable legislation. I draw that matter to the Minister's attention and indicate that I am sure we all would be extremely interested to know, after this legislation has been in operation for a period, just what has been its effect on the retirement rate of officers who are entitled to benefits under the legislation. If it causes large scale resignations, maybe some attitude will have to be adopted not by way of diminishing the returns but by way of taking some steps to encourage officers to remain on in the Services where they still have useful years of life to give to the armed forces of Australia. 
I repeat that the Opposition welcomes the introduction of this legislation and wishes to record the indebtedness of the Parliament and of the armed forces to  Mr John  Jess and the Committee for their work which inspired the legislation now before us. We support the Bill. 
 I wish to speak to the amendment. I simply indicate that the attitude of the Opposition is that it will not support the amendment moved by  Senator Byrne.  We received notice of it at a fairly late stage. We note that, as has been indicated by both  Senator Bishop  and  Senator Maunsell,  the other members of the Jess 
Committee were not prepared to support  Senator Byrne  at the time of the presentation of the report and when he made the recommendations. Although I see that it is worthy of some further consideration I do not see that we can support h at this stage.  Mr Deputy President,  1 ask leave to add a matter which is outside the amendment. I have just received some information about it and I would like to mention it. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy President.  I mention for the information of the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop)  that I understand that some 2,000 persons who are entitled under the present scheme will suffer a detriment as a result of the introduction of this scheme. If the details of that can be supplied, may I receive an undertaking that it will be investigated and that some steps will be taken to ensure that no injustice is done in respect of existing entitlements? I do not yet have full details of the matter. I will not hold up the Senate by slating what little I know of it but 1 will try to get details and supply them. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I ask the Attorney-General: When did the existence of the telex of the DirectorGeneral of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation first come to the AttorneyGeneral's attention? He has already acknowledged knowledge of the existence of the telex to which I refer. Were the contents of that telex an accurate statement of fact? If not, did the Attorney-General take any steps to correct the mis-statement contained in the telex? 
 I move: 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn until 10.S9 a.m. on Thursday 23rd of August 1973. 
I do so for the purpose of debating a matter of urgency, namely: 
The denial by the Government of the right of every Australian child to receive economic support for his educational needs from Government funds. 
The failure of the Government to disclose to each school the index figure and the facts involved in the calculation of the index, by which non-government schools have been categorised. 
The failure of the Government through its interim committee for the Australian Schools Commission to state the criteria used to alter the categories of certain small non-government schools and its failure to publish the list and details of those alterations. 
The refusal of the Government to adhere to and acknowledge the promises made during 1972 by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Education,  Mr Beazley  that Commonwealth grants to non-government schools would be maintained at a basic level of at least that applying in 1972. 
I refer to the fact that last year the present Government while in Opposition indicated that on becoming the government it would set up a schools commission to determine for Australian schools the standard of assistance and the direction which development should take. Its object was said to be to improve standards and opportunities in education. After the election the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  set up the Karmel Committee, as it has been known. Its full title is the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission. Some of its terms of reference were fairly general and some were quite specific, but all of them related to the period 1974 and 1975. I draw attention to term of reference 3, which states: 
The grants recommended by the Interim Committee will be: 
for the period 1 January 1974 to 31 December 1975; 
I emphasise paragraph (b): 
in addition to existing Commonwealth commitments; 
directed towards increased expenditure on schools and not in substitution for continuing efforts by the States and non-government school authorities. 
So in the terms of reference was the very clear direction that grants were to be in addition to existing Commonwealth commitments. 
The Opposition is eager to debate the full report of the Committee at the earliest opportunity given to it by the Government in its management of the business of this Senate. The Opposition will support some aspects of the report and it will criticise others. Certainly we do not - I emphasise 'not' - criticise the increased allocation of funds recommended by the Committee for the development of education in Australia. However, we regard the report as raising a very important matter of urgency which is made all the more important and more urgent as a result of the Government's actions. We believe that every child in Australia has a basic right - a fundamental right - to be able to receive some assistance towards its education from the taxpayers' funds or the community purse. We believe that every parent and every child in Australia has the right - it is contained in the Declaration of Human Rights - to be educated according to that religious system to which they adhere or in which they believe, if they so choose. We believe in the right of choice and in the right to receive some assistance from the public purse towards education. 
As a result of the Government's actions on this report I think it would be no overstatement to say that a wave of anger has been sweeping this country. There are demonstable absurdities and demonstrable injustices, and any person who supports the categorisation of grants to non-government schools in the way that this Government has is a person who supports demonstrable injustices. There may be some Australians who are not aware of the demonstrable injustices which result from this action by the Government but no doubt when they have heard the comments I shall make and those of my colleagues who will follow me they will be aware of some examples of those injustices. 
One problem has been the tendency on the part of the Government and the Press to talk about rich schools and wealthy schools - the 105 rich or wealthy schools in Australia. Let me give some examples of the schools so categorised by the Labor Government. In Victoria is a small convent school where, I am told, a number of elderly nuns of the Order which runs the school retire but who occasionally give some assistance in teaching. 
In the very ambiguous and very hastily compiled questionnaire sent out by the Karmel Committee these nuns were shown, faithfully, by the school as part-time teachers. And the net result is that this small convent school in a country town in Victoria has been placed in category A. All aid to that convent school is to be cut out. 
There is the case of a relatively new college in Adelaide, South Australia. It is a college with 38 pupils that has adopted the new, progressive, modern approach to education. To an extent, it is an experimental school that is developing, I think in the interests of Australian education, some of the newer theories. The Cook Committee which has been set up by the South Australian Government to look into the needs of South Australian schools regards that school as being in the second most needy category of schools in South Australia. But what do we find as a result of the Government's actions? That school has been placed in category A and will receive no aid whatsoever. It is a small school with 38 pupils. It is in a very early stage of development. Certainly, by no standards is it a rich or wealthy school. 
I cite another case of a little school in Tasmania that has 105 pupils and which charges $50 a term for fees. We hear all this talk about rich schools with their huge amounts of income. Here is a little school which, as I say, has only 105 pupils and charges $50 a term fees. Buildings are being developed gradually and T am sure that the school will develop. But at this stage no one can regard it as being a wealthy school. But it has been placed in category A. 
I do not have the slightest doubt that if this Government continues to treat schools in the way that it is treating them at this stage,  Senator Little's  unfortunate prediction will be more likely to be true than was the case at the end of last year when the Government took office. In every State there are examples such as those I have mentioned of small, very needy schools with facilities such as those to which I have referred. There is a school where I understand the headmaster's study is a caravan and the rest of the buildings and physical facilities are of a like kind. But it is in category A and will receive no assistance. 
We know that there are a number of schools sited on very large areas of land. They have swimming pools and all of the most desirable facilities that one could imagine for sport, education and recreation. Some of those schools have been placed in categories in which they will receive increased aid over and above the amount that they would have received under the scheme that we introduced when we were in government last year. If this is justice according to the Australian Labor Party, then certainly it is not justice according to the thousands of people in Australia who are being adversely affected by this unfair discrimination. 
This is a system which has been most unfair to small schools because they tend to have a relatively high pupil-teacher ratio. It is unfair to those schools that have suffered a decline as a result of the rural recession which has affected many regional schools in country towns. I refer to those schools which have been principally boarding schools, and which have suffered a serious decline in their pupil numbers. They have kept on staff in order to keep faith with the students who remain there so that they can provide the breadth of courses which is desirable for pupils. But many of those schools have been placed in category A because of the absurdity of an unreal formula which contains some facts, the details of which we do not know, being fed into a computer. 
The Committee did give some information concerning the index. But the point that should be emphasised again and again is this: Although the factors were to some substantial extent released by the Committee, the facts which were applied and the final index figure have never been released. So no school in Australia which has been discriminated either for or against by the Government in respect of recommendations by the Committee knows where it stands. It does not know whether it was high or low in the category in which it was placed and does not know what it needs to do in order either to improve its position in a category or to appeal. It does not know how to plan for the future. This becomes impossible in those circumstances. 
It is a matter of very real urgency for schools to be able to know these things so that they can plan ahead. The Minister for Education,  Mr Beazley,  is to be condemned for the sort of attitude that he adopted when he responded to a telegram sent by me requesting information. He replied to the effect that no school could need to know at this stage what was going to happen to it next year. He stated that this could not adversely affect its planning. Schools have to plan for some years ahead, not just for a few months, lt becomes imperative that the Government should release the information so that the schools may know whether they have the right of appeal, whether they have reasonable grounds for appeal, and how to plan for the next year and the following years so that they may be able to qualify for some of this assistance being handed out liberally to some - which we applaud - and, with great inequity, being taken away from others. 
In compiling this index the Committee used what really boils down to a pupil-teacher ratio, lt has added in some other factors such as some administration expenses and use of materials. But basically, the most important thing, the thing which influences the position more than any other, is the pupil-teacher ratio. The Committee did not take into account the physical facilities available to the schools. It did not take into account the general wealth which a school may have - whether it has any investment, whether it owns any other land or buildings from which it derives income. It did not take into account the fees income or the endowment income of the school. Further, it did not take into account the debts of the school and, therefore, that proportion of its income which is required to service the cost of previous expansion. It did not take into account the overdraft that the school may have or the funds that it may have borrowed over recent years to enable it to continue. Many schools in Australia are in that position. But now, because of the way in which the index has discriminated against many of the schools which are in a struggling position, they are to lose all aid. 
It appears that there may be some justification for some people in Australia believing that the Government has a deliberate intention to force some of the schools of Australia to close. If so, the Government stands condemned for this. If it is not the intention of the Government to do this, then it has a clear duty to prevent those schools from being forced to close. That is why the Opposition is taking the action that it has taken today to draw this matter to the attention of the Senate and the people of Australia by moving this urgency motion. A further matter to which I must refer is the effect that the categorisation will have on non-government schools in Australia. The effect that it will have, of necessity, must be to reduce standards. It is just nonsense for the Committee to talk about its desire being to raise standards while at the same time introducing a scheme which must have the effect of lowering ing standards. 
Many schools will be forced to dismiss teachers so as to increase their pupil-teacher ratio in order to qualify for the aid necessary to enable them to continue. There is a law of diminishing returns as far as fee rises are concerned. There are many small communities in Australia in which there are just not enough people who can afford to pay the higher fees if schools fees are increased. As fees are increased, the school loses pupils. I can think of schools in which the number of pupils is about half the number it was 15 years ago simply because of this process of inflation which the Government is doing so much to encourage at the moment thus causing schools to have to increase fees. 
There is another aspect which is, I believe, of very considerable importance to the integrity of government. That is the broken promises and the high handed attitudes both of the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  and the Minister for Education,  Mr Beazley.  Let me refer to just some of those. In May of last year  Mr Whitlam  made a statement at Festival Hall, Melbourne. That statement is well known; it has been quoted many times. It was a statement in which he said that aid would not be reduced and that the Labor Party would continue any forms of benefit in education which were pre-existing. 
 Thank you,  Senator McManus.  There is a personal attestation to that promise. There are plenty of copies of the tape recording of the speech. Let me refer also to a statement made by the present Prime Minister on 20 June 1972 when as Leader of the Opposition he addressed the Catholic Luncheon Club of Melbourne. I emphasise that this was after we, then in Government, had announced on 1 1 May the increases which apply this year, the scheme which we introduced whereby every nongovernment school would receive from Federal sources 20 per cent of the average cost of the education of a child in a government school. It was expected by us that the States also would provide 20 per cent so that the nongovernment schools could plan ahead knowing that they were to receive 40 per cent of the average cost, a cost which, as it escalated, would be matched by an automatic escalation in the grant. That decision was announced on 11 May. It was after that announcement that the present Prime Minister made this promise: 
The Australian Labor Party has never voted against any Bill proposing Commonwealth aid for education - 
That was not true becuase there have been votes in this chamber in respect of which the Australian Labor Party has voted against such a Bill, but I pass that aside. The important part of his promise is the latter part of the sentence in which he said: 
. and .it will support any forms of benefit already existing. 
There was a clear undertaking, repeated again after the announcement of 11 May, and of course there was the prior statement to which I and  Senator McManus  have referred. On 13 December the Prime Minister again made a statement in a letter written to people concerned with non-government schools education. He said again that the benefits would be additional. 
Let us look at what the Minister for Education,  Mr Beasley,  said in answer to a number of questions asked of him by the headmasters of 2 schools. He gave a written answer dated 24 November 1972. The first question was:  ls it the intention of the Federal Labor Party to continue per capita aid to independent schools for 1974 and following years? 
I emphasise the words '1974 and following years'. The answer was: 
Yes. 
The Government has broken that promise. 
The next question was: 
Can we have some specific guidelines indicating how money would be allocated according to needs? 
The answer was: 
It has been indicated that at least the 1972 level of $68 per secondary pupil and $50 per primary pupil would be maintained and that this would be graduated upwards especially for those schools whose fees over the last 5 years have averaged $300 a year or less. 
For completeness, I quote the remainder of the answer: 
It is however the intention ultimately to found the system on the findings of a schools commission. The guidelines mentioned are for the initial years. In 1973 the measures passed by the Commonwealth Parliament in August of this year would be in force. 
The question to which 1 return is the first question, which was: 
Is it the intention of the Federal Labor Party to continue per capita aid to independent schools for 1974 and following years? 
The answer was a clear 'yes'. There are further questions and answers. I will quote part of an answer. It reads: 
The figure $300 per year has usually been taken to refer to the average of fees for a day scholar over the last 5 years and schools whose average fee has been at that point or below it would receive extra grants. 
I emphasise the word 'extra'. 
No headmaster, having received the letter from which I have quoted, could have suspected that a Labor government would do what this Labor Government has done, that is, take aid from a number of schools and from a number of pupils. What the Labor Party should remember is that it is not schools with which we are concerned, it is children. It is the education of children that matters. What the Labor Government is doing is to take aid vindictively in areas where it thinks it can make a point. 
What was the response of the Minister for Education to the complaints of people that they could not find out information about categories? What was the response from  Mr Beazley?  Was it: 'Oh, I am sorry. Yes, we who believe in open government will certainly make this information available to you'. No, it was not. The response was to complain that there was an organised campaign against him. Well, if he was a man of honour, if he was a man of principle, he would have resigned. He would never have allowed himself to be placed in this position of the clearest breach of a promise and the clearest breach of faith. If he was a man of principle, he would have resigned. He would not have adopted the secretive approach that he did adopt when on 13 April of this year he wrote a letter to the Karmel Committee changing its terms of reference without disclosing that fact to the Parliament and to the people. The terms of reference were changed secretly. That letter has been tabled in the House of Representatives at the instance of the former Minister for Education and Science,  Mr Malcolm 
Fraser, and it is now available to us. But for his action, that information would have remained a secret. 
On behalf of a number of people, I put forward certain requests to  Mr Beazley.  AH he did in a telegram sent belatedly to me was to berate rae for misquoting Father Martin who was a member of the Karmel Committee. So, for the benefit of  Mr Beazley  and of other people, I quote from the transcript of a tape recording of what Father Martin said on the Australian Broadcasting Commission program 'PM' on 9 August 1973. The question was asked: 

 Mr Santamaria also said that the Protestant community would be feeling a deep sense of injustice. Do you think they are? 
Father Martin replied: 
Well, the people involved in those schools no doubt are, and, you know, I sympathise with them very much in this. I  think  they have been harshly treated by the Government. But to talk about sectarianism and so on is just nonsense. 
That is what Father Martin had to say. 
1 simply reassert that justice requires the recognition of the right of every child in Australia to a basic percentage of education expenditure from government funds. I reassert that justice requires publication of the information so far withheld relating to the facts used in obtaining the index figure for each school and the index figure result. One further reason I seek that information is that I have been informed - I do not know this - that some figures were not even worked out for some of the schools placed in categories. It would be interesting for those schools to know the true situation. Further, the Karmel Committee did not even observe that which it said in its report it would observe. It decided that, rather than adhere to a principle, it would vary it; and it did. It varied its assessment basis in relation to small schools and in some instances it took into account the size of a school. 
The Karmel Committee states that it varied categories by placing some schools which would have been in category A or category B into category B or category C. In other words, schools which would have received no aid or reduced aid were given greater amounts of aid. But nobody knows which schools they are. How can we know which schools have received this favourable discrimination? How can any other small schools know whether perhaps they may not be entitled to similar discrimination in their favour? What were the criteria used to determine which schools would receive this special benefit and which schools would not? I have already quoted a number of examples of schools within category A which have small numbers. It is obvious that they have not obtained any advantage. It is very difficult for anyone to know what criteria have been adopted because there has been no discussion of them anywhere. They are being kept secret at this stage, notwithstanding the requests which have been made to the Minister for Education for that information to be made public. A series of secretive actions, a series of actions which are not in the interests of education, a series of actions which are unjust and discriminatory has been engaged in by the Government and it stands condemned for its actions. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
ls it a fact that the Treasurer has now realised that his attack upon all Australian Permanent Building Societies was unfair and ill founded in its sweeping coverage. 
Was the purpose of this attack an attempt to create a run on building societies and to undermine their otherwise long standing stability. 
Does the Treasurer know that the four permanent building societies in Tasmania have been in existence for 100 years or' more and have recently been accepted by the State Government as Trustee Investment. 
Will the Treasurer make a statement withdrawing his allegations and stating the facts in relation to the true stability and community value of these organisations which provide home owning opportunities at reasonable rates to so many Australians. 
If his allegations are well founded in relation to any building societies will he identify which ones and so clear the others from his charges. 

 Senator WILLESEE- The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The attention of the honourable senator is invited to what I said in reply to questions asked of me in the House of 'Representatives on 22 May by the honourable members for Bradfield and Gwydir (Hansard, pages 2362-4), and also to what I said in a joint press statement issued by the Minister for Housing and myself on 22 May following a meeting we had that day with representatives of the Permanent Building Societies Association Limited of New South Wales. I made clear that I have every confidence in the financial stability of the permanent building societies, and added that there was no justification whatever for drawing any contrary implications from any of the remarks I or other Government spokesmen have made in recent times about the activities of the building societies. 
With regard to part (3) of the question, my attention has been drawn to the fact mentioned by the honourable senator. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. By way of brief preface I refer to the answers previously given to my questions when the Minister said that the Commonwealth was prepared to provide an operating subsidy for the King Island shipping services. Now that the 'Straitsman' is being restored to the service by the Tasmanian Government, has that Government made any application to the Commonwealth Government for a subsidy? If so, what has been the response from the Commonwealth Government? If no application has been made, is the Commonwealth still prepared to honour the undertaking to provide a subsidy to enable the freight rate to be reduced from the extremely high figure of $18.50 a ton for general cargo? 
 I wish to add a few remarks to those of  Senator Wright  concerning the report of the Senate Select  Committee on  Shipping Services between King Island, Stanley and Melbourne and the general questions which gave rise to the presentation of the report. King Island, as has been stated, is a very fertile island in Bass Strait  on  which all the principles of decentralisation are well exemplified. But, being an island, its livelihood is of course dependent upon a shipping service. I believe that the people on it were encouraged by the Commonwealth Government and the Tasmanian Government to go there and develop the island. It is an island which has a large soldier settlement. Ex-servicemen were encouraged to go there by the 2 governments. They were even told that they would be provided with a good, efficient, regular shipping service. I believe that they are entitled to a good, efficient and regular shipping service at a reasonable price. 
During the past year when the 'Straitsman' has, as  Senator Wright  said, been tied up in Melbourne, they have had very little by way of a shipping service and what they have had has been provided at an outrageously high cost. The net result to a lot of the people there has been a very considerable economic loss. That economic loss has been the direct result of government inaction and ineptitude, principally on the part of the Tasmanian Government. Page 10 of the report sets out 2 parts of the evidence given to the Committee which I would like to quote. The King Island Products Co-operative Society gave evidence to the effect that its turnover had been reduced by $150,000 in the past year. The King Island scheelite mine, through its manager, gave evidence to the effect that the delay has cost the company approximately $120,000 during the past year. The Manager said that with this burden, added to the low price of scheelite, it is doubtful whether the mine will be able to continue to operate under present conditions. That mine is the largest employer of labour on the island. It employs 362 men. As well as that, many individuals have been hard hit as a result of the shipping problems. I believe that those people are entitled to special consideration at this stage. 
It has been proposed that the 'Straitsman' should operate a service on a regular basis from Melbourne to King Island and Stanley. 
The proposed freight rates were published recently. The freight rate is to be $18.50 a ton for general cargo. That is nearly twice as much as the residents of Tasmania have to pay to have their goods shipped across Bass Strait, For half the distance the rate will be nearly twice as much. That will make it extremely difficult - it may even make it almost uneconomical - for some of the operations at present conducted on King Island to continue. But for the fact that they are fortunate in that they are receiving good prices for their meat and wool, many of the farmers who were encouraged to take up soldier settlement blocks on the island would be in real strife in endeavouring to make a living. They were encouraged by the actions of both the Commonwealth and the State governments. Many of the soldier settlers on the Island came from various parts of Australia. They were encouraged to take up .their occupation on the Island in the belief that they would have a reasonably regular service at a reasonable rate. I believe that there is a clear duty on the part of both the Commonwealth and the State governments to provide a shipping service at a reasonable rate. I submit that $18.50 per ton is certainly not a reasonable rate. 
I have visited the Island since the decision to restore the 'Straitsman' to the Island service was taken by the Tasmanian Government, following the very considerable pressure which we applied to get it to take the decision, and I have had discussions with a number of representatives of the various organisations and bodies on the Island. All are extremely concerned about this freight rate. The Government has indicated that it is prepared to make a subsidy available. I quote from page 7 of the Committee's report which sets out an answer which I received on 6 June from  Senator Cavanagh,  the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. He said: 
Prior to the election and since the election this Government promised to subsidise shipping services to King Island. There have been 2 delays in the provision of such services. Firstly, the Tasmanian Government wanted to control the shipping line operating to the Island, and secondly the question of providing a suitable ship had to be resolved. 
Later he said: 
The subsidy would have to be considered on the basis of the losses on the King Island service which are expected to occur. The honourable senator will remember that after thorough investigation it was decided that the 'Straitsman' could not be employed for this service because the cost of subsidy by the Commonwealth Government would be too high. 
That was at a time when, according to the evidence given to our Committee, the estimated cost of the subsidy was about $500,000. 
Yes, per annum. As the inquiry conducted by our Committee demonstrated, that was an almost reckless estimate of loss. It was as a result of a very hasty inquiry conducted by representatives of the ANL. I have had discussions with a lot of the major would-be shippers in the StanleySmithton area and on King Island to find out to what extent the ANL, in making its inquiry, contacted them to ascertain the tonnages that they would be likely to be exporting or importing. I found that very little conversation was had and that in particular two of the major exporters from the Stanley area were not contacted by the ANL. The reasons why the quite incredible figures were produced by the ANL are quite obvious.. At the instruction of the new Government, it conducted a very hasty inquiry at Christmas time when perhaps it was hard for it to spare the time or when perhaps it was hard for it to contact people. There may have been all sorts of reasons. I think it is an inquiry of which no notice at all should be taken. The inquiries and the estimates which were given by others were obviously of much greater relevance from the point of view of the likely income from the service. Most of those who costed it came to a reasonably comparable figure in relation to the likely cost of operating the service. So that part of it does not matter. 
The main question was the likely income, on which the estimates varied very substantially. Obviously what must now happen is that the Commonwealth Government must honour its promise to make a subsidy available. The State Government will presumably be in direct dereliction of its duty to the people of King Island if it does not apply for the subsidy. I have seen the publication in the King Island 'News' of the Commission's freight rates for the 'Straitsman*. Those details were stated by the Associate Commissioner,  Mr T.  Moorehead, when he visited King Island on the Thursday before 15 August. They state that the freight rate will be $18.50 per ton, which is a disgraceful rate to be charged. It it a rate which will make uneconomic a number of the operations on the island and it is a rate which need not be charged because the Commonwealth Government has offered to subsidise. If it were subsidised to the rate of about $3 per ton it would bring the rate down to SI 5.50, which would be not unreasonable, and the cost to them would be within the sort of terms which we gathered they were talking about when they said that $500,000 would be too much but $150,000 was what was being paid before. Presumably something between those 2 figures would be regarded as reasonable. This morning at question time I asked the Minister for Works,  Senator Cavanagh,  a question and he indicated that he would find out the reason for me. I will be glad to receive that information. If the honourable senator could indicate any sort of answer now I would be delighted to hear it. I am sure the people of King Island would be delighted also. 
Thank you very much. I acknowledge the co-operation of  Senator Cavanagh  throughout this matter. He has been prepared to obtain information and to assist every time that I have made an inquiry of him. He indicated the willingness of the Government to provide a subsidy. I only regret that there are some others in ministerial positions in both the Commonwealth Government and the State Government who have not been as co-operative as  Senator Cavanagh. 
No. Thank you for the interjection. I am glad to take up that point. The former Minister for Shipping and Transport,  Mr Nixon,  stated repeatedly that if the State Government would put a proposition to the Federal Government it would be considered reasonably and favourably. My statements to that effect in debate in this chamber appear in Hansard and I go no further than simply to repeat it. The Tasmanian Government has been derelict in its attitude. 
I make no comments about the ABC and I expressly disassociate myself from the comments made by  Senator Wright  about  Mr Smith,  the warden  at  King Island. 
 Senator Wright  is entitled to his opinions. I am entitled to mine. I do not have the basis of knowledge that  Senator Wright  has. I have had co-operation from  Mr Smith  when I have discussed the matter with him. I discussed it with him recently and he indicated to me that he was quite prepared to accept the principle of the reintroduction of the 'Straitsman' but was concerned over 2 matters; firstly, the reasonableness of the freight rate, and secondly, the regularity of the service to the Island. 
The other matter I wish to refer to was the desire by the Tasmanian Transport Commission to engage in what appears to be a case of empire building. As I quoted earlier,  Senator Cavanagh  confirms this point when he says that there have been 2 matters which have caused the delay in providing services to King Island. I think the people of King Island will remember this. The first was that the Tasmanian Government wanted to control the shipping line operating the service. If that was the desire of the Tasmanian Government, if that was the desire of the empire builders within the Tasmanian Transport Commission, let everybody know that that desire was one of the causes for the long delay in restoring a proper shipping service to King Island. Secondly, the problem of the provision of a suitable ship had to be resolved. We heard all this nonsense about unsuitability but the fact was that the evidence was that the 'Straitsman', built specially for the job, was suitable. There was no real evidence to indicate otherwise. 
No. Thank you,  Senator Cavanagh.  I will refer to that aspect since you have drawn attention to it. The Committee agreed upon a report but I felt it encumbent upon me to add a few words. I said: 
We were deprived of the benefit of hearing evidence from any officers of the Tasmanian Transport Commission or any other representative of the State Government. I can but assume that there are some relevant facts and logical arguments in favour of the State Government's wish to take over the service and/or its rejection of the reintroduction of the Straitsman'. 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
When the sitting was suspended I was referring to certain comments which I made in a supplementary submission to the report of the Senate Select Committee on Shipping Services between King Island, Stanley and Melbourne. I said: 
I therefore qualify my support of the report to the extent that the State Government or its officers may be able to refute any of the otherwise overwhelming evidence in support of the re-introduction of the Straitsman to the Melbourne-King Island-Stanley service. 
Notwithstanding what might be regarded as the bait held out to the State Government to produce some evidence which would indicate good reason for its actions or delays, it has done nothing other than eventually to change its mind and accede to the suggestion which we made in this report, and which was made to us by such a cross-section of witnesses who gave evidence. It appears therefore that the State Government did not have a good reason or any logical arguments which it was prepared to make known as to why there should have been a 12 months delay in taking some action which would re-introduce the 'Straitsman' to the service. However, let us not cry over what has happened; let us approach it from the point of view that belatedly, but in fact, the Tasmanian Government is now to re-introduce the ship to the service. The major problems have been the regularity of services hut I understand that the scheduling which has been arranged is to ensure that the ship will call regularly, that people can enter into commercial transactions with the knowledge that they can expect their freight to be carried on a particular date and that they will get their cattle to market in Melbourne on the appropriate dates. That aspect therefore need not be of concern. 
The other question therefore is that of the freight rate. I reiterate that as the Commonwealth Government has made an offer to subsidise the rate, it is up to the State Government to request a subsidy immediately, if it has not done so already. I am looking forward to hearing  Senator Cavanagh  this afternoon tell us the position, if he will do so. If the State Government has made no application for a subsidy, then obviously it is in the interests of all concerned with this service that it should make that application immediately. The other point I make, which is basically a local one, is that there has been considerable concern on King Island over the question of the management of the shipping service and the agency arrangements on King Island. I simply draw attention to those as being matters of concern to the people in the area. 
I support the report of the Senate Select Committee and I support the remarks made by  Senator Wright  regarding the proof that a Committee could take expeditious action to investigate a matter and to present to the Senate a report which shows the facts and which gives the public an opportunity to know the facts, and to bury forever some of the rumours and mis-statements which have been made about this ship and the concept of the shipping service. I am glad to see that all now appears to be going to end well, and I shall be even more delighted to hear this afternoon that the Tasmanian Government has made an application for a subsidy and that the Commonwealth Government will provide it. 
 I rise to make several points only. The first is that my colleague  Senator Greenwood  referred to actions that 'we' have taken. I want to remind the chamber that so far as our Party, 'the Liberal Party, is concerned this is not a matter on which we as a Party are taking a particular attitude. In fact it is a matter about which there are differences of opinion. Perhaps by using the word 'we'  Senator Greenwood  was referring to those who are of like mind to himself. The second point I wish to make briefly is this: My attitude in relation to capital punishment has been made clear in this chamber on a number of occasions. Mv reason for voting as I have also has been made clear. But we frequently hear in the debate that takes place that the reason given for maintaining the barbaric attitude in our society of wishing to retain capital punishment is because we are incapable of having a system whereby people who have been sentenced to life imprisonment are retained in prison for life. The 2 matters are completely distinguishable. The one amendment to this Bill which I would support is one which pm.vides that life imprisonment means imprisonment for the term of natural life. That to me is a punishment which could be justified in many of the circumstances of crimes in this country. The use of the barbaric system of hanging is not justified because you cannot organise your society so that it can carry out the punishment which was given. 
It is not as barbaric as the taking of life. 
 Senator Webster,  somewhat jovially, has asked me whether I have been in prison for a long period. In the course of my practice as a lawyer in Tasmania I had the misfortune to be in prison for long enough. I went to the prison to interview a person and was taken into the then empty women's section in the gaol for the interview. Unfortunately the gaoler who directed me forgot that I was there and I spent some hours longer than I ever wish to spend in prison. Perhaps I did get the feeling. 
Perhaps  Senator Webster  can suggest other systems for the improvement of the penal system. I do not think it is an improvement of the penal system to say that because some aspects of gaols are barbaric we should be even more barbaric by imposing capital punishment. I simply wish to reemphasise that we have had the arguments for and against capital punishment. Very few people need arguments in order to make up their minds. What should be realised - here I completely support  Senator Greenwood  - is that there is a great deal of room in this country for the proper consideration of what is appropriate as a system of punishment and as a system of rehabilitation; to what extent is the deterrent aspect important in the sentencing of persons; to what extent is society entitled to retribution; to what extent is society bound to ensure that people who have breached society's rules are given some prospect of rehabilitation. All those matters are far more important, I believe, than the continuation of a debate on an aspect of punishment, namely, the imposition of the death penalty which has been argued in most countries for many years. An enlightened world has moved increasingly towards the abolition of capital punishment for the majority of countries believe that there is no evidence that the deterrent effect of capital punishment warrants the imposition by society of that penalty. I continue to oppose any aspect of the carrying out of the death penalty in this country. 
I wish to take the opportunity given to us by the Government to return to the subject which was raised yesterday afternoon and last evening, the question of education in Australia. I and a number of people who contacted me today have been concerned about statements that appeared in the Press. We saw today in a number of Australian newspapers a story which reads like this: 
The Senate last night rebuffed the Federal Government by carrying an urgency motion against the Karmel committee recommendations for grants to schools. 
That appeared to many people - in fact it would appear to anybody who had not heard the debate - to mean that the Senate carried a motion relating to grants to all schools in Australia. I remind you,  Mr Deputy President,  that far from doing that the Senate last night carried a motion, by 29 votes to 23, which related to a very specific area of the Karmel Committee report. I also remind the Senate that in speaking to the motion which 1 moved I referred to the fact that we did not oppose - I emphasise the word 'not' - in any way at all but rather applauded the steps which had been taken to make further funds available for education in Australia. The Liberal Party - I am sure I speak for the Country Party as well - applauds the granting of further funds to education. We believe that there are areas where it is necessary to take steps to overcome disadvantages and to bring up the standards available to the children of Australia. What we were talking about was the Government's denial of a basic principle- its denial of the rights of people to know the facts relating to the steps taken by it. This newspaper states that the motion carried last night read as follows: 
The Government's denial that every child had a right to have part of its educational needs paid for by Government funds. 
I willnot quote from the actual motion but it was in these terms: We believe that every child in Australia has a right to government expenditure on its behalf towards its education. This newspaper states that another part of the motion was the Government's 'failure to tell schools how their categories had been calculated.' That was one way of saying that what we objected to and what so many schools in Australia objected to was the Government's failure to disclose facts and information. We asked what the Government was trying to hide. We wanted to know why it would not disclose information. We pointed out that in relation to the schools which received grants under the States Grants (Independent Schools) Act there was a proposition that a number of them should be categorised into categories from A through to H; that some schools should receive nothing while others should receive a greater amount than they would have under the scheme which the previous Government put forward last year. 
The schools placed in those categories receiving less" would like to know the facts and the factors taken into account in arriving at the famous or infamous index which has been applied to those schools so that they can be categorised. The index of recurrent resource use, as it is called in the Karmel Committee's report, basically is an index calculated on the basis of expenditure by schools on teachers, administrative staff, teaching aids and other aspects of the teaching function. Nothing was taken into account in relation to expenditure on such things as buildings already constructed but upon which there are loans; nothing was taken into account as to payments on overdrafts which may have been obtained for operating expenses; nothing was taken into account as to what assets each school may have or as to its general debt situation. Instead this rather incredible term recurrent resource use' was used. That is a nonsensical term and it resulted in a nonsensical categorisation. 
What we wanted to know and what I believe the schools and the parents of the children of Australia are entitled to know is: What were the facts, what were the factors and what was the final index figure? Unless that information is made known there is not a school in Australia that can know whether it has been fairly treated on this absurd basis or whether it has been unfairly treated, equally on this absurd basis. At least they are entitled to know the basis upon which they have been discriminated against. But no, apparently the Government is not prepared to release such information. I suggest,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that it must be hiding something. Why is the Government so secretive about this? Why is it that the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  wrote a secret letter dated 13 April to the Karmel Committee changing the terms of reference? Why is it that he was not prepared to disclose it to the public at the time that he made the alteration to the terms of reference? Why is it that he is not prepared now to disclose to the public, to the schools, to the parents and to the children the basis upon which they have been discriminated against? 
The next term used in the Press was: 
Its failure, through the committee, to state the criteria used to alter categories of some small nongovernment schools. 
Basically that is a fair statement of what we were complaining about. The final term was: 
Its failure to keep the promises made by  Mr Whitlam  and  Mr Beazley  that Federal grants to nongovernment schools would be maintained at a basic level of at least that applying in 1972. 
Again I think that that is a fair statement of what we were concerned about. Dealing briefly with those matters, I reiterate that the Karmel Committee, although its report said that it would not take into account school size, decided for some reason which it does not explain and the Minister has not /explained - the Minister still will not explain - to change that and to give some preferential treatment to some small schools while at the same time excluding some schools from that preferential treatment. This apparently was in the name of equity, justice and equality of opportunity. What absolute rubbish! No one should have to be subjected to the sort of nonsense which is coming from this Government and this Minister for Education who, if he was a man of principle, would have resigned long since. What absolute rubbish it is for people to be told that it is fair and just that some schools should be given preferential treatment - treatment which others do not receive - on some basis which the Government is not prepared fully to disclose. Last night the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland),  who in this place represents the Minister for Education, gave us a little information, but precious little. Representatives of many schools in Australia have sent me copies of letters they have written to  Mr Beazley,  such as the copy of a letter dated 20 August which I received today. This is about a relatively small Jewish college in Melbourne. The representative wrote thus to the Minister for Education: 
I write formally to object to the classification of our college in category A as recommended in the Karmel Committee report to the Education Committee of the Australian Government. The method of determination is unfair and completely unrealistic. The  asasessment  of needs cannot be made without inspection of facilities and examination of finances. 
The writer refers to the fact that this college is able to demonstrate that it has never been in the wealthy category. The letter goes on: 
Our teacher-pupil position is aggravated by our lack of adequate facilities, attested to by our recent protracted litigation with the Caulfield Council. They insisted that we were unable to operate due to our lack of adequate facilities' (their words, not ours). This necessitates reduction of the size of classes to fi i accommodation available. 
That college, according to this government, is a category A wealthy school. The Government speaks of use of resources. What are resources? This Government does not know what resources are because it does not know what education is. It does not know the first thing about education. Let me turn to one committee which has at least studied the subject, even though I do not agree with everything it says. Let me quote from the reports of the Cook Committee of South Australia which was set up by a Labor Government in that State and which has done some things which are perhaps more commendable than some of the recommendations of the Karmel Committee and the actions of this Labor Government in Canberra. In its first report relating to the distribution of the additional S2S0.000 per annum to those independent schools which have children attending primary schools, the Committee said: 
The Committee emphasises that all schools were obviously in need of financial assistance. . . 
That is just one quotation from the first report. Now let me quote from the second report of this Committee in South Australia: 
The Committee wishes to express its deep concern for all schools and the increasing need for adequate across the board per capita grants to meet recurring costs. We wish to say, with all respect, that it is the opinion of this Committee that the present State and Federal per capita grants are not adequate and we would urge the governments to reconsider this matter. At the same time this Committee would reaffirm its belief that the needs of some schools are greater than others and that they need a larger grant than others. 
But, I emphasise, nowhere suggesting that there are not real needs in every school. Let us look at the third report of the Committee in relation to primary schools where it states: 
Although we have not yet worked out a 'formula' which we regard as satisfactory, we think that our present assessment has been reasonably just. 
The Committee goes on to explain its method of assessment - a far wider and more comprehensive method of assessment than this unjust, absurd method which has been adopted by the Karmel Committee in the haste imposed upon it by the Labor Government here in Canberra. This is as a result of some years of experience by the Cook Committee in South Australia. It has tried to develop a fair system, a system about which it still has reservations but by which it believes it is getting closer to doing justice, and which is far more comprehensive and which takes in a far wider cross section of .matters than the Karmel Committee took into account in its absurd, so-called current resources uses. Finally, I refer to the report of the Cook Committee which came out almost contemporaneously with the Karmel Committee report. This is the report dated June 1973 which relates to secondary schools in South Australia. It states: 
In addition to the problem of recurring expenditure, almost all independent schools are incurring huge capital debts in order to provide good quality education. While the Committee recognises that capital assets such as good grounds and buildings provide an enriching environment for education, it is obvious that it is becoming increasingly difficult even for the most affluent schools to service such debts. 
The Committee once again wishes to stress its conviction that all independent schools are finding it more and more difficult to survive in the face of ever increasing inflationary trends. The Committee also recognises that while the needs of schools vary to a great degree, all these schools do have needs, and supports the policy of allocating additional grants to all schools according to 'need'. 
The report goes on to say: 
We are convinced that the withdrawal of grants according to need would inevitably mean substantial increases in fees and that this would mean a decline in the number of students in these schools. The ultimate result of this trend would be the inevitable closure of at least the smaller schools. 
Notwithstanding the availability of that informed opinion, this Government - T include this Minister for Education,  Mr Beazley,  who is prepared to get up in the House of Representatives and sanctimoniously say what he said on 30 May, which I shall quote in a moment - is prepared to take action which will mean inevitably in the opinion of the Cook Committee in South Australia the closure of a number of smaller schools. Can it be said that it is not the intentional action of the Labor Government to close a number of independent schools? Let us consider what  Mr Beazley  said: 
My informal opinion was opposite to what the Committee has recommended. My view was that every school in the country, including Geelong Grammar School, should receive a basic grant from the Commonwealth and that the Commonwealth should have an identity with the education of every child. If it has recommended, in good conscience, something that is different from that, it is its  decisive  and not my directive. 
In other words, having directed the Committee by a secret letter, he is prepared sanctimoniously to try to escape responsibility for his own actions. There can be no doubt that the recommendations of the Karmel Committee are the direct result of Government directives given directly and indirectly. 
 They themselves stated that they took into account Government policy in making the recommendations which they made. I do not intend to have a person like  Senator McAuliffe  who displayed his ignorance of the subject as he did last night, interrupt the speech which I wish to make on this subject tonight. We had to pay enough of a penalty last night by listening to the honourable senator. Let me continue.  Mr Beazley  who was prepared to stomp around the countryside last year following his leader,  Mr Whitlam,  and promising faithfully left, right and centre, as was quoted repeatedly last night from occasion after occasion, that no independent school in this country would be worse off under a Labor Government, is prepared to say sanctimoniously on 30 May when he introduced the Karmel Committee recommendations that although he still believes that every school and every child should have something, he is bound by the recommendations of the Committee. What sanctimonious rubbish. I would like to refer to the effect that this will have on children. I have quoted from one school. I could quote from dozens of schools from all over Australia whose representatives have written to me about their problems or to send me copies of letters which they have written to  Mr Beazley  explaining what will happen to them if this Committee's recommendations and this Government's decision are carried into effect. They include small schools like those that I mentioned last night and dozens more, schools that have been placed in category A which will receive no aid; schools which have been placed in category B which will receive reduced aid. 
 The honourable senator who displayed his ignorance last night has interjected. I will respond to this one interjection but not to any more. I will respond to it in this way: The position is that under the scheme which was introduced by the LiberalCountry Party Coalition Government last year there was to be a graduated acrosstheboard per capita grant made available to every child in a non-government school in Australia. Those per capita grants were to  be  calculated as a percentage of the average cost of educating a child in a government school. This meant that there were automatic increases. As costs increase in government schools they obviously also increase in nongovernment schools. They increased in government schools and so too did the grants increase to children attending non-government schools. In 1974 the grant for a student at  a  non-government secondary school would have been about $130. 
The fact is that the Labor Government has worked a con trick as it has in relation to its Budget. Unfortunately tonight I do not have a chance to talk about the con tricks in the Budget but I will have an opportunity when the Budget is debated. I want now to point out the con trick worked on the public in relation to the Karmel Committee report. Labor supporters have been going around saying how they have advantaged all children, right, left and centre. But they have taken grants away from 19 per cent of children at non-systemic non-government schools. Nineteen per cent of those children have had their aid taken away. Fifty-four per cent of those children will receive next year less than they would have received through per capita grants under the Liberal-Country Party Government plan enacted last year. I find now a strange silence from  Senator McAuliffe. 
 'Let me just remind the honourable senator that the Karmel Committee surveyed the needs of education in Australia. In surveying the needs of all Australian school children it met on 16 days. We know how long it took God to make the world but I rather think that the Karmel Committee was stretching it if its members thought that in 16 days they could remake on an equitable and just basis the whole distribution of funds and the whole principles and philosophy of education in Australia. They met for 16 days to consider it. Is it any wonder that the demonstrable absurdities and demonstrable rubbish which came out of some sections of the report were evolved. 
I want to make a further point, lt was bad enough that that committee should work out a system such as it worked out for categorising schools, but it is worse that the Government acted a fortnight after the report came out and before a majority of the organisations of parents of school children, the people interested in education in Australia, had even been able to receive a copy of the report which carne out in such limited numbers that it was available to members of Parliament, a few committees and about half a dozen schools. Otherwise the report did not become available until the end of July, 6 weeks after the Cabinet had made its decision. Was its decision to implement the Karmel Committee report? No. Its decision was to implement all except 2 parts of it, one of which is deferred; that is chapter 13 of the report. The other part which the Government did not accept is the strong recommendation of the committee that aid should be phased out to category A schools, rather than having it done immediately. 
The Government chose - I suggest vindictively - to cut out aid immediately to category A schools. It has cut out a number of little schools like the Jewish school which wrote to the Minister the letter I read. It cut out aid to little schools such as the ones I referred to last night that cannot afford to be toyed with at the whim of some socialist who decides that he wants vindictively to take it out because of some idea that wealthy schools should be discriminated against without ever thinking that at whatever school it may be there are children who may come from a variety of economic backgrounds. So .many parents have written to me in the past few weeks saying that both parents have been working, gaining a relatively low income, but they have been prepared to work to put their child through a school at which an education of the type they believe in is available. Apparently these people are regarded by the Labor Government as those to be discriminated against vindictively. The Labor Government thinks it can get away with it but I suggest that it will find out that it cannot. 
I want to refer now to another matter of importance to which I did not have time to refer last night. How did the Karmel Committee arrive at the figure of $511 per annum for secondary pupils and $293 per annum for primary pupils for the national average running cost per pupil in government schools? There has been no disclosure of what was included in that total cost. Was the administration cost included? Was superannuation included? Was long service leave included? Many people in Australia are asking just those questions. The figures I have cited are relevant to the categorisation of schools. They are ingredients in the categorisation. How did the Committee arrive at the national average? It is not stated. Was it a combination of the averages for 6 States or was it done on the national basis of totalling the whole lot and then dividing nationally? If it was the former it is statistically unreal, as any statistician would say. 
How arrogant can a government become? How far will it ride over the wishes and legitimate concerns of people? Throughout Australia there has been a wave of concern about what the Government has done in relation to 158,000 children who will receive less next year than they would have received under our government. That is a fairly sizeable number of children. Concern has been expressed in many letters that have been written to the Minister for Education. That is clear, because I have copies of them. What has the Government done? After the Parliament through this chamber by a clear majority expressed its concern  Mr Beazley  came out today, with an arrogance almost unknown before in this Parliament, and did not give an answer to the questions raised by the Senate or an answer to the matters raised by parents and schools all over Australia but rather said: 'What a good boy am I.' He made a statement in which he patted himself on the back and said: We as a government have done all these things in education.' If he had any concern, if the Government had any concern for education in Australia as it pretends to have, a concern which goes beyond dollars and cents, he would have said: 'These are the matters about which the Parliament and the people are concerned and I will answer them.' But he has kept to the secretive principle which he adopted in relation to the terms of reference and the change which came about by a secret letter. 
He has adopted a secretive approach since the Karmel report was made public. He will not make known certain of the factors and facts which were taken into account. He will not make known what the index figures were for the schools. Last night the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  who represents the Minister for Education in the Senate, said something about the small schools. I believe that an extreme degree of concern is justifiable in Australia. It should not have happened, but worse, it is an indication of what may happen in the future if the Minister for Education continues to adopt an arrogant and unfeeling attitude as he has done in the past. 
Debate interrupted. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education. By way of preface  I  refer to the fact that in his statement dated 6 August 1973 the Minister for Education stated that originally 140 non-systemic non-Government schools would be placed in category A. He also stated that the number had been reduced to 105 which was a reduction of 35 schools. In the Senate last Wednesday- 
The Opposition supports the amendment to the States Grants (Universities) Bill. It does not in any way wish to hold up the early introduction of this legislation. I simply comment that this amendment is necessary, as  Senator Douglas  McClelland has said, because the amendments that were made by the Senate at the end of the last session were not able to be dealt with by the House of Representatives as it had risen. It is arising out of that set of circumstances that this amendment has become necessary. We support the amendment. We are glad that the House of Representatives has seen fit to accept the amendments which were proposed by this chamber. We support the making available of the funds provided in the legislation. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
Sitting suspended from  5.47  to  8  p.m. 
I wish to speak very briefly in response to what was an invitation from  Senator Webster  when this matter was last before the Committee.  Senator Webster,  while I was speaking, interjected in relation to conditions in prisons. Perhaps I did not take the interjection as seriously as I should have. Later,  Senator Webster  said: 
I was anxious that an honourable senator  who  spoke previously would make some show of having a knowledge of what our penal institutions are really like around this country. If we had any regard in this Parliament for these institutions we would provide - 
The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. As a member of the Council of the Australian National University, I personally support it for it provides for the regulation of traffic within the university. A considerable number of problems have arisen in the control of the increasing numbers of motor vehicles which go onto the premises of the university. We support the Bill arid will give it a speedy passage. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education. Is it a fact that the Prime Minister wrote an as yet undisclosed letter to the Karmel Committee or its Chairman? Did that letter, if it exists, give directions in relation to some aspects of the Committee's recommendations? In the interest of open government will the Minister arrange for the tabling in the Senate of all letters, formal or informal, written by the Prime Minister or any other Minister to Professor Karmel as Chairman of the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission? Will the Minister disclose all information which the Committee received from the Government and which enabled the Committee to take into account, as it stated, Government policy in the preparation of its report? 
-This Bill proposes the enactment of certain measures which are consequential upon legislation introduced by the former Government and is supported by the Opposition. Although the Minister in charge of the Bill, the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  is not here, I should like to discuss some aspects of the Bill. I see that the Minister has just arrived, being in the same situation as I was of hurrying into the chamber to take up the matter. I was anxious that the Minister should be here because I want to raise several points about the Bill although I emphasise that, the Bill, being consequential upon plans originally put forward by the former Government, we certainly do not oppose its enactment, and I believe that it can bc dealt with fairly speedily. 
The basic position is this: The Commonwealth Teaching Service is consequential upon the Commonwealth taking over in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory the provision of a teaching service as opposed to the secondment of teachers from New South Wales for the Australian Capital Territoty and from South Australia for the Northern Territory. The basic provisions of this legislation relate to easing the transfer of teachers who have been seconded from New South Wales and South Australia to the Commonwealth Teaching Service. It provides that special superannuation arrangements shall prevail to ensure they do not lose anything and do not have to pay any extra amount in order to transfer. We wholeheartedly support that arrangement. However, I think a couple of points should be mentioned and I would like some explanation, if we can have it, concerning other benefits which are provided in this legislation and stated in the Minister's second reading speech in the following words: 
Earlier this year the Government decided that the holder of a Commonwealth Teaching Service scholarship should be given an annual book and equipment allowance of $80. The existing provisions of section 45 of the Act do not cover a benefit of this kind, and it is necessary therefore to add to the legislation to encompass this benefit. Similarly there is nothing in the existing section 45 of the Act which covers the accommodation costs incurred by the holders of Commonwealth Teaching Service scholarships who undertake practice teaching in places remote from their training institution. 
What is pointed out in the second reading speech and what is, I think, well known is that the Commonwealth Teaching Service does envisage that there shall be teachers in training in various parts particularly in the Northern Territory and that it is desirable that they should be assisted with accommodation expenses and travelling expenses. However, I draw attention to the annual report for 1972 of the Commonwealth Teaching Service, which, at page 3, states: 
It is intended that holders of the awards should be given the opportunity of practice teaching in areas of possible future appointment and, for this purpose, the holders of the awards who were in the final year of their course in 1972 were given up to two weeks of practice teaching in the Northern Territory. To meet the expenses involved, the Commonwealth accepted responsibility for the payment of accommodation charges at Commonwealth hostels and also met travelling expenses from the place where the student was undertaking  his  course to the place in the Northern Territory where practice teaching was to be undertaken. 
I simply go back to the second reading speech which said that nothing in the existing section 45 of the Act permitted that sort of practice to be engaged in, and I would like to know, because I think it is of importance to the Senate to know, how it is that the report can say that this was done while the second reading speech says that it is necessary to amend the legislation to enable it to be done. It does seem that the report is defective to that extent or, alternatively, perhaps, it is a matter which could be specifically dealt with in the 1973 report if it has been discovered subsequent to the preparations of the 1 972 report. It is perhaps not a matter of great moment, but I think it should be dealt with. 
Other provisions in the amending legislation, with which we agree in principle, do raise questions. One is a reference to in service teacher training which brings up the spectre of the Karmel Committee recommendations. What I would like to take the opportunity to ask during this debate is this: How does the Minister see the opportunity for the implementation of the recommendations of the Karmel Committee for in service teacher training during the years 1974 and 1975 so far as the Commonwealth Teaching Service is concerned? Perhaps it will give the Minister an idea of what I mean if I say that in Hobart, I am told, it would require 300 extra teachers over and above the most optimistic assessment of the number available next year to implement the Karmel Committee's recommendations for in service teacher training. In New South Wales service teacher training is on the basis that it is envisaged that teachers will be drawn out of actual teaching and that their places will need to be taken on temporary basis by others. 
The suggestions, although laudable, appear impracticable. It is one of the areas of recommended expenditure approved by the Government in the broad statement of the acceptance of the Karmel Committee's recommendations which does appear to be beyond the expectations of reality. It does appear at the moment that however laudable- and I do not wish to be taken as attacking the principle- one must inquire as to the practicality of the suggestions. I simply ask so far as the Commonwealth Teaching Service is concerned: What are the numbers of teachers who would be involved by the implementation of the Karmel Committee's recommendations and how will that affect the service which is already complaining about the lack of availability of replacement teachers for those who must be absent owing to illness or some other unforeseen circumstance? One problem in the Australian Capital Territory at the moment as I understand it is that Commonwealth teachers are finding that replacements are not available and that teaching is being adversely affected as a result of the lack of availability of replacement teachers and that this is a basic matter of complaint and concern amongst teachers, parents and pupils in the Austraiian Capital Territory. If one is suddenly to superimpose upon this the recommendations in relation to the withdrawal of teachers for in-service teacher training one will probably reach a chaotic situation. I therefore take this opportunity while this Bill is before the Senate to raise the question by way of what I suggest is reasonable inquiry. I do not debate the other questions which are raised in this Bill, other than again to support the idea that this is a necessary addition to the legislation which we introduced whilst in government. It is a necessary and reasonable addition and one which was in the pipeline when the Government changed. It is like a number of other education matters which we originated and for which we are responsible. We support it. 
by leave-  Mr President,  yesterday a question on notice that I had asked on 6 June was listed for answer. However, I have not found out what happened to the answer. 

 - Senator Cavanagh. 

1 simply take this opportunity to indicate to the Senate that while Professor Loss was in Australia the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange took the opportunity to meet and have discussions with him and to avail ourselves of the opportunity which presented itself. Over a period of time we have had correspondence with Professor Loss. Last year we were delighted to learn that he was proposing to visit Australia. This year we made arrangements to meet him and we gained some advantage from the very great experience which he has. Comments have been made by  Senator Greenwood  to which I subscribe. I do not wish to take up the time of the Senate but I thought that I would take this opportunity to indicate that we of the Committee met Professor Loss. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Murphy)  adjourned. 
I present the following petition from 32 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
1 ) Your petitioners believe in the principle that every Australian child, irrespective of the school he attends, is entitled to economic support for his basic educational needs from the funds placed at the disposal of the Australian government through taxation. Further, they believe that this economic support should be in the form of per capita grants which are directly related to the cost of educating an Australian child in a government school. 
Your petitioners believe that in addition to this basic per capita grants additional assistance should be provided in cases of educational disadvantage, but they believe that the appropriate instruments for reducing economic inequalities are taxation and social welfare systems which deal with individuals and families and not with schools. 
The reduction of the existing per capita grants will impose great hardships on many parents who have chosen, at considerable personal sacrifice to send their sons and daughters to Independent schools. Indeed the curtailment of the said grants will create divisions in the community. 
Some independent schools of high educational standards will be forced to close with the consequences that children attending those schools will have to attend government schools already over taxed and under staffed. 
Some independent schools have been encouraged to lower standards in order that their parents may continue to receive per capita grants. 
Parents should be encouraged to exercise freedom of choice of the type of schools they wish for their children. The proposed legislation will penalise parents who try to exercise this choice, and discourage them from making a vital financial contribution to Australian education over and above what they contribute through taxation. 
Your Petitioners therefore humble pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled should acknowledge the right of every Australian child to equal per capita grants of government money spent on education. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
A petition in indentical terms from 84 citizens was presented by  Senator Hannan. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. I refer to the Minister's statement on the provision of Commonwealth funds for legal aid in Australia. I ask, firstly, what is proposed in relation to the continuation of the Legal Service Bureau? Secondly, is it a fact that Commonwealth legal aid is to be provided through Government-employed legal practitioners in the capital cities rather than through existing schemes operated by the law societies throughout Australia? If so, how is it proposed to make Commonwealth legal aid available to persons who reside outside Australian capital cities? Why not use Commonwealth funds to supplement the existing schemes? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Will the Minister make a statement to Parliament outlining Australia 's attitude to the following actions of the Government of Uganda- (a) the expulsion of Asian residents, (b) the expropriation of their property, (c) the apparent persecution of Asian and other minority groups in that country, and (d) allegations of mass murder and executions. 
Will he also make a statement of Australia 's attitude and policy towards the Governments of Mozambique and Rhodesia, and allegations made in relation to the alleged persecution of minorities in those countries. 
If such statements are made, will the Minister endeavour to outline the actions taken by the Australian Government in the United Nations Organisation and elsewhere in relation to each of the three Governments referred to, and the distinctions justifying any differences in the policy adopted by Australia in relation to those nations and their Governments. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a statement made yesterday by the Tasmanian Minister for Agriculture claiming that the Commonwealth Government's decision to abandon free milk distribution to school children will cost the Tasmanian economy $550,000 per annum and will particularly damage the residents of the west coast area in relation both to cost and availability of milk? Can the Minister indicate whether this statement is accurate? Is it a fact that the State and Commonwealth Ministers for Health are to meet in Canberra on 28 September to discuss a modified free milk scheme? If so, what modified scheme does the Commonwealth propose? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the interim report of the Lake Pedder Committee of Inquiry and also of the engineering review contained in the interim report of the Lake Pedder 
Committee and prepared by the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation. 
This interim report and engineering review involve matters of very considerable public interest. I believe that it is of importance that the Senate have an opportunity to consider and debate these documents. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned 
I direct a question either to the Minister representing the Treasurer or alternatively to the Minister representing the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. I am not sure precisely who is in the best position to answer the question. Can the Minister provide any details of the terms of the agreement between the Bond Corporation, Sun City Pty Ltd and the Tokyu Corporation of Japan relating to the Yanchep development in Western Australia? Further, is it a fact that the Commonwealth proposes to acquire part of that land for regional development? If so, what is the agreed price which the Commonwealth is to pay Sun City Pty Ltd? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Education. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to yesterday's announcement by the Premier of Tasmania that his Cabinet has decided to change its previously announced policy of providing grants to non-government schools on a so-called needs basis and has decided to accept the principle of the entitlement of all children attending nongovernment schools to a basic per capita grant? Will he ask his colleague, the Minister for Education, to have the Commonwealth Government follow the lead given by its fellow Labor Government in Tasmania and reconsider this Government's decision to discriminate vindictively against some Australian children by cutting off grants previously provided? Will the Government restore per capita grants together with extra assistance to disadvantaged children? 
-I wish to draw attention to one short point. I note that in this legislation, as in the social services legislation, it is proposed that the increases should apply from the date on which the legislation receives royal assent. I also note that for a considerable number of years the present Government, whilst in Opposition, asserted that proposed increases in social service and repatriation benefits should be backdated to the date of the presentation of the Budget. I raise with the Minister the question why, when in the position to do so, the Government does not do what it castigated us for not doing. 
-This Bill was also debated cognately with the Repatriation Bill (No. 3), and the relevant remarks of the Opposition were made during the cognate debate. We have nothing further to add. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
-This Bill was debated cognately with the Repatriation Bill (No. 3). All that remains are the formalities so far as we are concerned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Repatriation. I refer to the Bills before this chamber relating to increases in repatriation and social service pensions. I ask the Minister: What is the effect of the Government's delay in bringing these Bills on for debate? Will this mean a delay in the commencement date for the pensions increases thereby increasing the sufferings of the pensioners resulting from Government-inspired inflation? Bearing in mind that the Opposition has offered speedy passage to these Bills, will the Minister take up with his leader the re-arrangement of the notice paper to have these Bills dealt with this afternoon? 
-The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. In fact, as was made quite clear last week and again this afternoon in the question that I asked of the Government, the Opposition has been anxious to ensure that this legislation is not held up and that the benefits to be paid under it will become available to those entitled to them as soon as possible. It was with great surprise that I, and I am sure my colleagues on this side of the Senate, received the answer from  Senator Murphy  in reply to a question asked by me of  Senator Bishop  and answered by the former. In effect, he said that he was prepared to use the rights of pensioners as a bludgeon to curtail debate upon the important matter of the constitutional referendum to give the power to the Commonwealth to control prices. 
He said in answer to the question that he and the Government were prepared to use that bludgeon to force us to curtail our right of debate on that important matter. He said that if we wished to see pensioners obtain the entitlement which, since the Bill was introduced, we have been anxious to see them obtain at the first possible opportunity we would have to forgo our right to debate the other matter. Fortunately, there must have been some discussion amongst the members on the Government side and the obnoxious nature and the political absurdity of that proposal became apparent to them. The Government has now agreed to these matters being dealt with immediately this afternoon and prior to the resumption of the debate on the Constitution Alteration (Prices) Bill. I am gratified, as I am sure other members of the Opposition are gratified, to see that the Government has had the sense to accept our proposal and deal with the Social Services Bill (No. 4) forthwith. 
We had to make the suggestions to the Government to ensure that pensioners obtain their entitlement. The Government is prepared to use pensioners as a bludgeon to prevent debate in the same sort of way as it was prepared to use its numbers in the lower House to prevent debate on the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill (No. 2) that was referred to in this chamber earlier today. 
We support the proposals in Social Service Bill (No. 4). Many of the measures contained in it are the proposals of the former Government, the Liberal-Country Party Government. They were in the pipeline. The details of the proposals in that regard were referred to in the speech of the former Minister for Social Services,  Mr Wentworth,  during the debate on this Bill in the other House and therefore I do not want to reiterate them other than to draw attention to the fact that many of them are proposals of the former Government. 

 Mr Wentworth also referred to the fact that in our belief some of the proposals do not go far enough. Perhaps the most important matter to mention in this debate is the unfortunate nature of the size of the increases proposed, bearing in mind the extent to which the value of them has been diminished as a result of the economic mismanagement of this country by the present 
Government. The  Chairman  of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation, in his report which was tabled today in this chamber, said: 
An upswing in the Australian economy was well under way towards the end of 1 972-73 - 
That was during the latter part of the last Government's period of office- and has continued even more strongly into the new financial year. The overall economic outlook is for a continuing vigorous rate of growth with the major problem being the high and apparently rising rate of inflation. The December 1972 revaluation of the Australian dollar had some dampening effect, but it is evident that control of inflation must become the dominant economic policy preoccupation during 1973-74, just as the reduction of unemployment was the main target during the previous financial year. 
The next point is relevant to this Bill because the  Chairman  of the Corporation went on to state: 
Private consumption spending, stimulated by rising wages and incomes, including social service benefits, will again be the main element in domestic expansion. 
The Australian Government is budgeting for a slightly smaller deficit than last year, but is placing increased emphasis on social welfare measures, which should further stimulate personal spending. 
On the next page of his report he referred to the inadequacy of the inflation control measures taken by the Government. He referred to the fact that direct controls would be ineffective, that they would create distortions and that they were inappropriate. I mentioned those things only because they are relevant when considering the real nature of the benefit being given to recipients by means of this Bill. 
I was quoting  Sir Roland  Wilson,  Chairman  of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation Board, whose report was tabled in this chamber today. I thought it appropriate to refer to those remarks while we are considering the real value of the proposed benefits. The fact is that the benefits are smaller than those given by the previous Government in its Budget last year. They are very much smaller when we take into account the fact that rising inflation is gnawing away at the value of the dollar, and the increase in the base rate of pension in the circumstances can be regarded as miserable. When one bears in mind that food is one of the principal items in the average pensioner's budget, and that the inflation in relation to food is even higher than it is in many other sectors, one can readily see that the real value of the pension is diminishing rather than increasing and that little progress has been made towards achieving the Government's stated objective which is that pensions should be 25 per cent of the national average wage. In fact we are going backwards because of economic mismanagement, the very matter about which we warned when the Bill for the first pension increases came before this chamber early this year. We said then that we welcomed the increases and that we supported the legislation. However, we also said then that the value of the increases would be diminished by this Government's economic mismanagement unless it changed its policies. It has not changed its policies and it has exaggerated the very matters which reduce the value of increases given to pensioners. 
The proposal in regard to the means test is almost laughable but as it also was dealt with in the debate in the House of Representatives I do not wish to do other than refer honourable senators to the points made in that debate. However I want to make one further point: It is extraordinary, and perhaps indicative of the jumbled thinking of the present Government, that in its current Budget it is proposing a rather bizarre sort of reduction of the means test for age pensioners. It is proposing to remove the means test altogether in relation to tertiary level students and impose a means test in relation to school children. I cannot think of a more outstanding example of a jumbled approach. However, as I indicated, it is not the wish of the Opposition to impede the passage of this legislation. We have indicated repeatedly that we are prepared to give it speedy passage. Therefore I refrain from making further remarks. When I get the opportunity to speak in the Budget debate I propose to make some general remarks about social services. 
In view of the claims which have been made by the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop)  and by  Senator Keeffe,  I wish to take the time of the Committee for a moment to point out that in setting out the table showing the pension rates which will apply as a result of the present Labor Government's actions, the Government has included the very substantial increase which was provided by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government in its Budget which was presented in August last year. The figures relating to the increases which are set out in the table on page 616 of the Senate Hansard of 18 September 1973, which was incorporated in Hansard by the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland),  and also the Minister's speech, give a misleading impression. I simply point that out. It is obvious to anybody who thinks about this matter that the figures relating to the increases shown in that table did not come about as a result of the $3.00 a week granted by this Government; they came about as a result of the $1.75 a week increase provided in last year's Budget. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
In relation to the Repatriation Bill (No. 3) 1973, the Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Bill 1973 and the Seamens' War Pensions and Allowances Bill (No. 2) 1973, the Opposition indicates that it welcomes the assistance and the changes which are being provided in these Bills and it supports their passage through this chamber. As I indicated previously in regard to the increased social service benefits, we were concerned lest there should be any delay in the implementation of these benefits. We are anxious to indicate to the Government that we are prepared to give speedy passage to these Bills. I am glad that the Government has seen fit to bring the Bills on for debate in order to take advantage of our stand. 
As I indicated during the debate on the Social Services Bill, we are concerned that the high rate of inflation diminishes the value of the benefits provided. 1 do not pause to make that point any further than I did when speaking on the Social Services Bill, other than to say that I commend to the Government's study some references, which I quoted earlier which were made by the  Chairman  of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation Board. It would be a tragedy if the Australian people, who are to benefit by this legislation, are to lose the benefit of a result of further economic mismanagement. 
I wish to make a few particular comments. We welcome the proposal that determining authorities appointed under the Repatriation Act should give reasons for decisions. In the past I have always felt that there was a defect in this matter and I think that the proposal will constitute an improvement. But I ask the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop),  not for the purposes of holding up this legislation but so that he can give some thought to this matter: Why is the procedure to continue whereby a member of Parliament, who happens to be a qualified legal practitioner, is not entitled to assist a constituent, while a person who is not a qualified legal practitioner is entitled to assist a person in the hearings that take place? It seems to me to be an anomaly and I ask the Minister to reconsider the matter. If a little more formality is to take place in the giving of decisions, then it seems to me that the Minister also might consider providing that people may go to a particular member of Parliament who perhaps has helped them in the preparation of their cases over the years and who they believe would be able to assist them to get their cases through. I have received a number of such requests. It is a constant source of embarrassment to me that I am prevented by legislation from being able to take the matter right through for these people. I say that of course, as a qualified legal practitioner. 
I also want to refer the Minister to certain undertakings which he gave when we were discussing the defence forces retirement benefits legislation. The Minister referred to that legislation in his second reading speech on the Repatriation Bill. I simply take the opportunity to remind him that when we were debating that legislation I said it was believed that a number of people would suffer a loss as a result of the proposed amendments but that we did not wish to hold up that legislation. The Minister undertook to have this matter investigated. I ask him to give an early report on what has happened in that matter. I have continued to receive copies of representations which have been made to the Minister and to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard).  I hope that the Minister for Repatriation will take the opportunity to inform us as to what has happened. 
In an earlier debate on repatriation I asked the Minister certain questions relating to the portability overseas of repatriation pensions, and I received a letter dated 24 May 1973 in which he answered those questions. Because I think his answer contains information which may be useful to other people, I seek leave to incorporate that letter in Hansard. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA 
Minister For Repatriation Parliament House, Canberra, A.C.T. 2600 
Dear  Senator Rae, 
You may recall that during the Second Reading Debate of Repatriation Bill (No. 2) 1973 relating to the portability overseas of Repatriation service and other means test pensions, I indicated that there was a total of.4,000 war pensions presently being paid overseas. 
This figure was an estimate provided to me at short notice, and on further examination I find that the number of such pensions is 3, 112. 
You will be interested in the dispersion of these pensions and for this reason I have attached a chart showing the details. You will note that the majority of the pensions, 2,157 are paid from the United Kingdom. This figure includes some 200 which are processed in the U.K. for payment in North America. There are 68 1 pensions paid in New Zealand and the remaining 280 are distributed among 24 other countries. 
I confirm that no problems have been experienced in making these payments, which are mostly by cheque or bank draft. The  Deputy  Commissioner of Pensions, London, naturally handles the greatest number. In New Zealand, the Secretary for War Pensions acts on behalf of the Repatriation Department and in other countries, payments are arranged through the resources of our various Missions and the Commonwealth Sub-Treasury in Geneva. Where there are no Australian Missions, the facilities of the British Missions are used. 
I trust that this further information is of value to you. You may be assured that as the information becomes available in relation to service and other means test pensions this will be included in the Annual Report of the Repatriation Commission. 
Yours sincerely, R. BISHOP 

 Senator P. E. Rae, The Senate, Parliament House, Canberra. A.C.T. 2600. 

<graphic href="057232197309254_34_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="057232197309254_35_3.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the Senate. The only particular feature of the Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Bill is that it provides for a change of name from Commonwealth employees to Australian Government employees. I do not pause to debate the wisdom of that change; I simply point out that the change is taking place. Otherwise, it includes the followthrough increases which, in relation to the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Bill and the other 2 Bills which I have mentioned, the Opposition supports as being desirable. I only regret that the rise in the rate of inflation appears to be eroding the benefits faster than they are being provided. 
Sitting suspended from 5.59 to 8 p.m. 

 Senator Dame NANCY  BUTTFIELD  (South Australia) (8.0)- I am very pleased to have something to say about this Bill because like all Australians- I think I am right in saying 'all Australians'I feel very patriotic towards, and very much under an obligation to look after, the men who fought for this country, and I feel the same way about their dependants. I am annoyed when the patriotism of the Australian people is used for political purposes. I believe that no community anywhere feels more under a responsibility to carry out its obligation to look after its fighting men than Australia feels. I' congratulate the Government on the many improvements that it is introducing in these Bills, and I am wholeheartedly behind it in those improvements. I also congratulate those who have been responsible for delaying the publication of the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare. The draft report was finished in May, but the report still has not left the Government Printer. I do not know whether everybody will agree with me, but I feel that there is a very good reason for delaying the publication of that report, and that is so the Australian Labor Party can claim credit for improvements in the repatriation scheme which were brought to light through the publicity of the media at public hearings of that Committee. We heard many witnesses. The Press repeatedly brought out those things which could be and needed to be improved. So many of them are contained in the Bills. 
I also congratulate  Dr John  Whiting for the book which he published 'Be in it, mate'. Certainly the cases which he cited in that book are exaggerated for the very purpose of bringing them to the notice of the public, but I believe that in putting his head on the block, as he did in that book, he brought these cases to the notice of the people and that is why we are asked tonight to approve these many improvements. I think that if  Dr Whiting  had not shown up many of the anomalies, peculiarities, discrepancies and discriminations in repatriation we would not be seeing tonight the improvements that are being brought about. Certainly the thesis of this book is basically correct. Many things are wrong. Many ex-servicemen should be receiving compensation but are not. I think that the claims of many others who are receiving compensation should be reviewed. 
I am pleased to see that the tribunals will have to give reasons because I believe that some tribunals are far more lenient than others. It is very easy for the Repatriation Department, if it wants to favour certain people, to channel claims into the hands of lenient tribunals. So if all tribunals have to give reasons for their decisions I think this sort of leniency could be checked by the general public, to the benefit of all. I think that it is within the power of the Department to influence some tribunals. They meet in departmental offices. I think that many of their notices are approved or possibly sent out by the Department. I may be wrong on that point. I do not stress it. But the Department can have an influence on where claims are to go. I think it is quite right for the tribunals to reject some claims. But I repeat that far too many of the justified claims are not given due consideration. 
Also, I stress that those pensioners in receipt of major pensions, that is, those receiving above 75 per cent of the general rate pension including the intermediate, total and permanent incapacity and the total and temporary incapacity pensions, should have their pensions reviewed because I believe that some of them could well be downgraded. There are some who are receiving pensions who should not and, I repeat, some who are not receiving pensions who should. I would like to go through some of the benefits that are to flow from this measure. I agree that it is wise to increase many of the pensions and some of the allowances, but I say some of the allowances. I think that inflation is eroding the value of the pensions. We should see that our ex-servicemen and those who have been disadvantaged by war have a reasonable standard of living. I agree also that the means test for the Service pension, particularly for those recipients who are over 75 years, should be abolished. I approve of that. I am in favour of free medical treatment being extended to returned soldiers of the Boer War and the 1914-18 War, including those who have had no previous entitlement. They will receive now free treatment for any ailment. 
I have reservations about giving free treatment for malignant cancer to ex-servicemen and women who have served in a theatre of war. The reason I have those reservations is that the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare which investigated all aspects of repatriation received much public evidence on the subject. This evidence has been quoted in the Press and I am not divulging anything that may appear in the report when I say that doctors told the Committee that it is impossible to trace cancer to any war caused injury at this stage. That is why I have reservations on that point. I have a fear that there may be some political purpose in extending this sort of benefit to those people. I thoroughly approve that people in the community, not necessarily ex-servicemen, are receiving artificial limbs from repatriation hospitals and from artificial limb and appliance centres. I am very gratified that the Department, the Government and other people have taken so much notice of the publicity that was given to the inquiry of the Senate Standing Committee when we were saying that spare accommodation was available in these fields, particularly in regard to artificial limbs, renal units and intensive care units of the repatriation hospitals, and should be utilised. The members of the Committee kept saying that that accommodation ought to be available to the general public. I congratulate the Minister and the Government on now going further. I might say that the Department was taking steps in this direction. We were gratified to find that on many occasions civilians were being allowed to use these spare facilities which the Commonwealth Government was providing through the repatriation hospitals. Also, I am glad that legislation has been introduced to allow the Government to go even further. 
I am appalled at the situation we now face in which regular defence Service personnel are to receive repatriation benefits. I think that to find the reason for this we only have to look at an article which appeared in the Adelaide 'Advertiser' of Tuesday, 18 September. It commences by stating: 
I doubt very much if there is, anywhere, a more proficient, more professional group of soldiers than those in the regular component of the Australian Army today. 
That was written by General  Sir Thomas  Daly in August last year. He continues: 
Thirteen months later the soldiers are still proficient and professional but morale has deteriorated gravely. Officers and men alike are bewildered, frustrated and disenchanted. 
They have been given little concept of their likely role. They see little future in the Service. 
In increasing numbers, and at levels of rank and competence the Army can ill afford to lose, they are resigning to take up jobs in civil life. 
I will not delay the Senate long. I asked a question of the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  representing the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  on 28 August last. The Minister undertook to obtain an answer for me. 
That was  Senator Douglas  McClelland. I wish to have the answer incorporated in Hansard and I wish to make certain remarks which will be relayed to the Minister for Education. I asked: 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education. By way of preface I refer to the fact that in his statement dated 6 August 1973 the Minister for Education stated that originally 140 non-systematic non-Government schools would be placed in Category A. He also stated that the number had been reduced to 105 which was a reduction of 35 schools. I ask the Minister whether he is able to elaborate upon the information which he gave to the Senate last Wednesday and which set out 2 1 of the 35 schools? Is he able to say what happened to the other 14 schools which were originally listed in Category A? Why were they taken from Category A and into what category or group were they placed? 
The Minister for Education has written a letter to the Minister for the Media dated 12 September 1973 which I received this evening. Apparently it took a fortnight for the Minister for Education to answer that relatively straightforward question and it took almost another fortnight for the answer to be transferred on from the Minister for the Media to me. I realise that the Minister for the Media is not present in the Parliament. I simply wish to read into Hansard -the answer I received and to draw attention to the fact that there has been considerable tardiness in supplying the information. The letter of the Minister for Education to the Minister for the Media states: 
You undertook to find out all of the circumstances involved and to give the honourable senator a suitable reply. I suggest you reply in the following terms: 
When I announced details of the allocation of various nonsystematic non-Government schools to categories on 6 August 1973, 1 indicated that the number of those schools in Category A was 105, compared with my earlier estimate of about 140. 1 said the reduction had occurred because the Interim Committee had reconsidered the position of a number of small schools and had obtained additional information from some schools for which the information originally provided by those schools was found to be deficient. The list of schools transferred from Category A or B to another category due to size, including 21 schools formerly in Category A. Other schools had their categories changed as a result of the additional information provided. ' 
The answer does not make sense. The explanation is some sort of cover-up and does not answer the question at all. It obviously is trying to cover up what has happened in relation to this secretive matter, this rather disgraceful episode in the conduct of government. We have had misleading statement after misleading statement and we have had avoidance of answering questions. T have a large number of questions on notice which have not been answered. It has become patently clear that the Minister for Education is not prepared to come clean in relation to matters concerned with the categorisation of schools. I take this opportunity to raise my complete dissatisfaction with the cover-up which is going on. I ask why questions take so long to be answered and I seek proper answers, answers which make sense and which supply the information sought. I see no reason why the Minister for Education in this instance could not supply the details sought, which were the names of the schools, why they were transferred and what were the circumstances of the transfer. I also ask that questions on notice be answered a good deal more promptly than is the case now. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Science. Is it a fact that the United States-Australia Agreement for Scientific and Technical Co-operation expires next month? Is it to be renewed? If it is not to be renewed, why not? If it is to be renewed, are extra funds being made available by Australia for the purposes of the Agreement? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy been drawn to reports of the fact that the International Nickel Company of Canada Ltd, the world's largest nickel producer, is closing down its Australian exploration and development programs as a result of concern over the Government's minerals policy? Is it a fact that considerable unemployment will result from this action and that substantial mining developments in Queensland and Western Australia will not now proceed, with a consequent loss to those States and to Australian exports? 
I wish to refer to certain matters which took place this afternoon. By way of introduction I wish to quote from a copy of a speech which was given on 6 September in which the  speaker,  none other than the Treasurer of Australia  (Mr Crean)  said: 
I find myself by some strange good fortune - 
And in the copy of the speech I have the word good 'is underlined -  in a very happy and confident situation. The fact is that by practically any test we care to make the Australian economy today is thriving and the immediate future looks good. 
That is what the Treasurer was prepared to say a little less than 3 weeks ago- 'by some strange good fortune the Australian economy looks good '. And by some strange good fortune he was happy. I just wish to record that I am far from happy and I believe that the people of Australia have cause to be far from happy, and that honourable senators on this side of the chamber have very good cause to be far from happy because the Treasurer is prepared to say that the economic situation is good only as a matter of chance. In his view this is a matter of fortunebecause the gods were prepared to smile upon him- and not as a result in any way at all of the economic management of the Government, not as a result of anything that it has done, but ' by some strange good fortune '. 
That shows how entirely dissociated from the complaints of the average person in the community he has become. It shows too that he is totally unaware of the seriousness of the problem of inflation in Australia. It shows that he does not realise- perhaps this is the reason for the events of this afternoon- and that the whole of the Australian Labor Party does not realise that the people of Australia are concerned about the question of inflation. They are concerned about what is proposed to be done about it. They are concerned to know whether we are going to have a referendum and whether they are to be requested to vote - 
-Thank you,  Mr President.  I wish to refer to what the people of Australia will be concerned about in December. They will, of course, be concerned to know fully what are the arguments and what are the considerations related to the decision which will be required of them. 
May I continue with due regard to the objections which have been taken and refer to the fact that many people in Australia are concerned about inflation. Many people in Australia are concerned to know what the Government proposes to do in relation to inflation. They become all the more concerned, as my colleague  Senator Webster  has just pointed out, when they hear from the Prime Minister that wide cross-sections of alterations to the Constitution are proposed by the Government but are not explained. It is this lack of explanation to which I particularly wish to refer. It appears to have become a matter of habit on the part of the Government to pontificate upon - 
P-o-n-t etc. I do not think that  Senator Poyser,  who joined me in Rome last year, needs to have the word 'Pontiff' at least spelt. I will continue, if I may. The people are concerned to know what the Government proposes to do. They hear suggestions that the Government will have a referendum about this or about that, and they are anxious to know what it will mean, what this power will mean, what the passing or the rejection of a particular referendum will mean to them, and what sorts of policies they can expect. I have not the slightest doubt that as a result of the announcements of today they remain all the more confused and all the more irate about the Government's behaviour and its refusal to explain itself. 
No  Senator shall  allude to any debate or proceedings of the same Session unless such allusion be relevant to the matter under discussion. 
The matter under discussion is the adjournment of the Senate. It has to be shown thai the allusion to any debate which occurred in this session is relevant to the adjournment of the Senate. I suggest that we have had several days of discussion of items which are to be submitted to the public in December. We have had reference to this matter all through. It has been suggested that this power either is or is not a cure for inflation. Tonight again we are told that it either is or is not a cure to inflation. We are rehashing the debate which took place in relation to 2 Bills which were before the Senate. That is in complete defiance of Standing Orders and with respect,  Mr President,  I say that it is in defiance of your ruling. 
May I speak to the point of order,  Mr President? 
I wish to make it quite clear that the very thing I am not talking about is the debate that we did not have today. 
Well,  Mr President,  it has been suggested that I was speaking about a debate which took place today. I would like to point out that one of the matters about which I would like to comment but about which naturally I cannot comment because I wish to observe the Standing Orders is the fact that the Government refused to let us have such a debate today. I would like to refer to it but I am not allowed to do so; so I will not. 
Thank you,  Mr President. 
If I may continue without too many interruptions by fruitless points of order,  Mr President,  I wish to say that the matters to which I wish to refer are the general policy of the Government in relation to inflation, the announcement of the Prime Minister that there is a wide cross-section of matters other than matters debated today which apparently he would like to put to the public of Australia by way of referendum and the importance to the people of Australia of being able to know what the Government wishes to do in relation to them and to what use it intends to put any of the powers that may be given to it as a result of a particular referendum proposal being accepted by the people of Australia. 
I am sorry,  Sir. 
It has been suggested to me that I am sailing a little too close to the wind. You would know what happens if you sail too close to the wind,  Mr President. 
I do not wish to be put in irons. 

 - Senator O'Byrne has suggested that a little luffing may be going on. Perhaps we can have a luffing match. If we are to talk about the drawing of analogies perhaps I could talk about what happened in ancient Rome and go back into the history of the Roman Empire. 
I am grateful to my colleague from Tasmania,  Senator Wriedt,  for his help. He is obviously intent upon ensuring that the Government is not criticised for some of the serious faults in its administration which are becoming increasingly evident to the people of Australia and which were not well received last week by the people of Parramatta. I wish to speak about those faults. If some of the honourable senator's on  Senator Wriedt  's side of the chamber want to make a little fun, perhaps I can have a little fun back again. If they want to talk seriously, I will talk seriously. I wish to talk about a matter which is important. I believe the 
Government should provide adequate opportunity for the public to understand what it wishes to do. I wish to register a protest at the Government 's actions in failing to provide adequate opportunity for the public of Australia to know what is proposed to be done by the Government and to let it hear informed debate about those matters. 
I have taken the opportunity of doing so, notwithstanding the cat calling and caterwauling of the Opposition. I believe that the people of Australia want to know the facts about the Government's policies. I believe that they would like to know how they will affect them and the significance of what has been proposed. I do not think the people of Australia will give much credit to the Government if it prevents the opportunity being taken for that information to be made available to them in relation to any of the proposed policies of the Government. Those were the comments which I wished to make. I thank you,  Mr President,  for ensuring that I have had the opportunity to make them. 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware that the very high productivity of King Island and many other areas of Australia depends upon substantial applications of superphosphate and that the cost of superphosphate is a major factor in the cost of production? Will the Minister indicate whether, in the light of the foregoing and in the interests of decentralisation, he proposes to retain the superphosphate bounty? If not, will he develop a suitable freight cost equalisation scheme for superphosphate distribution to King Island and other high freight cost areas of Australia? 
-The Opposition does not oppose the passage of this Bill. In fact, it wholly supports the Bill. We propose, this Bill being of an urgent nature, that it should be given a speedy passage through the Senate. For that reason we wish to see it dealt with this evening. I wish to address a few short remarks in relation to it. The migrant program is and has been an important part of the Opposition's overall policy for the development of our country in material, cultural and social terms. We believe that it is of great importance that those who are part of the migrant program should be given every possible opportunity to play their part fully when they come to Australia. 
One of the problems which was identified as a result of a number of inquiries set up by the Opposition while in government was the need for a greater degree of English teaching of migrant children to enable them to participate fully in the education otherwise available to them. Surveys were conducted, in New South Wales in particular, in relation to the education of migrant children. Following those surveys, steps were taken in 1970 by the former Liberal-Country Party Government to introduce a program which provided for the expenditure of money in relation to migrant child education. It developed to the stage that last year the former Government decided that a further survey was necessary in relation to the high migrant density areas of Melbourne, as a good example, to ascertain exactly what was happening and what were the needs. They were ascertained as a result of the inquiry which was undertaken by the Victorian Department of Education, the Catholic Education Office in Victorian, the Department of Education and the Department of Immigration. The survey revealed very serious inadequacies in relation to the accommodation available for the special teaching of the English language to migrant children. Therefore it followed, as part of the program of the former Government, that this need should be catered for and that money should be provided. 
I am delighted that the new Government has accepted that aspect of the former Government 's program and has carried it forward. This Bill represents the action taken as a result of the initiative of the former Government and its acceptance and follow-on by the present Government. So, far from opposing this Bill in any way, the Opposition proudly accepts it as part of the program for which it has always stood and continues to stand- that is, the importance to Australia and the world of a migrant program and the importance to the people who play their part in that program of being able to obtain a fair go in Australia. Part of the fair go given is that the children should be given special coaching where necessary in the English language to enable them to be able to participate fully in and obtain the rewards from the education system available in Australia. 
We make only one small point: That is that this program provided for by this Bill is in relation to the provision of demountable classrooms to be placed temporarily at schools where there is a need to replace the sort of facilities which have been available. It is rather shocking to think of these. They are mentioned in the second reading speech and include facilities such as cloakrooms, storerooms, offices, sickbays and even shower rooms and laundries which have been used in various classes for the teaching of migrant children. These are hardly the conditions which are conducive to learning and hardly the conditions which are likely to help the migrant children to be able to take their place in Australian society. It is with great pleasure that we support the provision of demountable classrooms for schools where the need is identified. We hope that demountable classrooms will not become a feature of Australian education. As second worst to shower rooms and laundries, demountable classrooms must feature high on the list. But the program that is going ahead in relation to education in Australia, a program which we are delighted to see includes the provision of funds for the building of extra school facilities, should overcome the temporary need. We hope that it will not be a permanent need. We hope that adequate school facilities will be available and that it will no longer be necessary to provide demountable classrooms. But we agree entirely with this, in view of the urgent need, as a temporary measure and entirely support the Bill. With those few remarks I indicate that we would like to see a speedy passage given to the Bill. 
I regard as reprehensible the action of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  in his reply to the second reading debate on the Bill. On behalf of the Opposition, I take great exception to the remarks which were made by him. They were not accurate. They were a gross exaggeration and a distortion. 
They were a distortion of the facts. I stated those matters with which the Minister agreed, namely, that this action resulted from a program developed by the Opposition when in Government. I went no further than that. I did not criticise the Government's attitude in relation to immigration. I did not develop a disputed debate in relation to the absurd inflationary policies engaged in by this Government. I did not enter into the things which might otherwise have been entered into by way of debate if the Minister wished to have a full-scale debate. I saw it as more important simply to state the facts with which he agreed and leave it at that in the interests of obtaining a speedy passage for this legislation which is urgent. If the Government wishes to do what it has done on so many occasions in the past, that is, try to hold to ransom sections of the community so it can say that the Senate is holding up its legislation, then it should let us know and we will have a fight. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What is the nature and value of all forms of aid which the Australian Government proposes to provide during . 1973-74 to: 
South Vietnam 
North Vietnam 

 Senator Willesee:The answer to the Honourable Senator's question is as follows: 
South Vietnam- Provision has been made in 1973-74 for the following aid to South Vietnam: 
Projects 
Medical training/equipment, $45,000- provision for experts and equipment primarily for the Vi Dan Hospital. 
Can Tho Water Supply, $40,000-to complete the water supply scheme. 
Da Nang Water Supply, $l,000,000-to commence the construction phase. 
Vung Tau Water Supply, $962,000-to commence the construction phase. 
Directorate of Water Supply, $800,000-to provide pipes, fittings, water meters and ancillary equipment to increase the supplies of potable water in rural and urban areas. 
Saigon Water Supply, $300,000- to provide pipes, fittings, water meters and ancillary equipment. 
Equipment for PTT- to supply telephone cable and equipment to the Directorate of Posts, Telephones and Telegraphs. 
Electrification of VPC, $350,000-to provide materials and equipment to assist the Vietnam Power Company. 
Saigon Fluoridation- to provide equipment for the fluoridation of the Saigon water supply. 
Beach Mining, $50,000- to provide equipment and to fund a short visit by an Australian expert to assist in the Beach Sands Mining Industry. 
Administrative and support services, $ 10,000 
Total Project Aid-$3,908,000 
Training, $73 1,000 
Total Aid-$4,639,000 
North Vietnam-Arrangements are in hand for the provision in the near future of reconstruction aid comprising roofing iron and wool to the value of approximately $660,000. No other requests for aid have been received. The estimates for 1973-74 include an item, Special Aid to Indo-China, for which $3m has been provided. Expenditure on aid to North Vietnam (as well as on regional relief and development programs) will be financed from this item. ' 
I present the following petition from 1 8 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That they oppose the Australian Health Insurance Program and any National Health Scheme; 
That they wish to retain the right to choose their own medical care by selecting a general practitioner, specialist or any other medical classification of their own choice under the present conditions in private consulting rooms and also the right to choose an intermediate ward or private hospital of their own choice. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will take no measure to interfere with the existing health scheme. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. Is it a fact that holders of private post office mail boxes and private mail bags have, at the suggestion of the Department, this year paid their annual rental fee in advance until March 1974? Is it a fact that in breach of what might have been regarded as a contract the PostmasterGeneral's Department has sent out notices to such private box and bag holders stating that the charges will be increased from 1 October 1973? Will the Minister ask the Postmaster-General to reconsider the equity of this action and to defer the increase until March 1974? 
I rise to refer briefly to some of the facts which appear to have been overlooked by one or two speakers on the Government side. We hear talk about the wonderfully buoyant state of the export meat market. We hear talk about how the market continues to be such that it could be described by them as a bonanza. I think this shows the ignorance of Government supporters about what is happening in fact. Perhaps that is the basis upon which this misconceived levy is to be imposed. In fact the export market is not as buoyant as it has been and it does not show the same sort of enthusiastic trends that it showed a short time ago. Our most important export market is the USA and boneless manufacturing meat is the major type of meat sold on that market. I checked to make sure that my understanding of what has been happening in regard to prices was correct. I found that for the week ended 10 August 1973 the price free on board ship was 70c per lb. By 28 September it had fallen to 57c per lb. In the same approximate period the United States domestic price had dropped by nearly 30 per cent. These are hardly factors which would induce people to say that the market is buoyant and wonderful or to use all the other terms that  Senator O  'Byrne and others might have used. In fact there has been a steady decline on the United States market in the last month or 6 weeks. This is a period of great uncertainty. A levy of 1 .6c per lb when the price is now less than 60c per lb represents nearly 3 per cent of the gross income from meat sales. One can imagine that that will have a very significant effect on the return after taxation when one bears in mind the very considerable increase in costs to which producers and processors have been subjected in the past few months. 
We find that this industry, as has been pointed out by a number of speakers- I will not take time to go into detail- as a result of revaluation, as a result of inflation and as a result of increased costs generally is one in which the growers and the exporters certainly should be looking to a steady increase in prices to be able to maintain parity with the return they received earlier this year. But far from . that, we have had every indication of a falling market in the United States. 
It is the reality in local markets, as  Senator Laucke  has said. So far from this wonderful picture painted by  Senator O  'Byrne in what might have been a mistaken burst of enthusiasm - 
-Senator O'Byrne says that it was fact. I am quoting facts now. I got them a quarter of an hour ago from the Australian Meat Board and I think perhaps my details are right. But if  Senator O'Byrne  can show that the Meat Board is wrong - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Brown)-  Order! I ask  Senator O'Byrne  to cease interjecting and  Senator Rae  to address his remarks to the Chair. 
Yes,  Mr Acting Deputy President. Senator O'Byrne  said that the evidence given by the Meat Board to the Joint Committee on Prices was all bunk or bunkum. I do not know which word he used but I think they both have the same meaning. I do not detect any deep variation between them. If what the honourable senator suggests did happen, and I do not for a moment subscribe to the view that it did, it may be that some members of the Joint Committee on Prices were lacking in understanding. That might be the reason for the Alice in Wonderland approach which was so evident in the Committee 's report. 
Caucus had more sense than the fairylanders. In general terms the facts are that the meat industry cannot necessarily look to an ever-increasing bonanza. With prices at their present average level it is an imposition to increase by 3 per cent the amount taken from the total income of growers and exporters for Government purposes when account is taken of what has happened in various other ways through revaluation, inflation and increased costs. I certainly have a great deal more enthusiasm in supporting the amendment foreshadowed by  Senator Laucke  to reduce this levy from 1.6c to lc than in accepting any of the nonsense that came from  Senator O  'Byrne. 
I draw attention first to clause 6 of the Bill and note that it reads: 
The following amounts may be recovered by Australia as debts due to Australia: 
I raise the question: What is Australia other than a geographical area. 
And  Senator O'Byrne  and I. Is it not a fact that legally under the Constitution and the Constitution Act we remain the Commonwealth of Australia? I raise the question of the drafting and the meaning to be given to this particular form of words. 
If the Minister is not in a position to answer my point I have another matter I would like to raise. 
I certainly was not cavilling at its use. I was simply inquiring as to the legality of its use, because it was my understanding that we were still bound by the use of the words 'Commonwealth of Australia' from the point of view of legal forms. The other matter to which I draw attention relates to clause 9(2). I believe that probably the Government Printer has accidentally omitted the word 'an' at the end of the second line. It is only a very small point but I draw the Minister's attention to it. Sub-clause (2) reads: 
Where an authorised person has reason to believe that there are on any premises (including premises of, or occupied by, a State or authority of a State). . . . 
It should read 'an authority of a State' in the same way as the words 'an authority of a State' are used in the definition of 'exporter' in clause 3. 
I present the following petition from 2 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That they oppose the Australian Health Insurance Program and any National Health Scheme 
That they wish to retain the right to choose their own medical care by selecting a general practitioner, specialist or any other medical classification of their own choice under the present conditions in private consulting rooms and also the right to choose an intermediate ward or private hospital of their own choice. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will take no measure to interfere with the existing health scheme. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
May I ask a supplementary question? 
I simply indicate that I understand that it has been the established practice in the Senate in recent times for questions directed to a chairman of a committee to be referred to the committee for the preparation of an answer on its behalf. I shall do that. 
I address my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as the Minister representing the Prime Minister in this place. Will the Minister obtain and provide to the Senate a detailed list of the government committees and commissions and other forms of bodies of inquiry established by the Government, showing the numbers of members of each such body, the staff of each such body and the amount of money spent in advertising associated with the creation and operation of each such body? 
I present the following petition from 20 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That they oppose the Australian Health Insurance Program and any National Health Scheme. 
That they wish to retain the right to choose their own medical care by selecting a general practitioner, specialist or any other medical classification of their own choice under the present conditions in private consulting rooms and also the right to choose an intermediate ward or private hospital of their own choice. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will take no measure to interfere with the existing health scheme. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Transport any information as to the whereabouts of the ship 'Blythe Star*? When was the marine centre in Canberra first informed of the disappearance of the ship? What steps were taken to instigate a search for the ship? Is it normal for Australian coastal ships to report their position by radio at any particular times during voyages? 
As has been mentioned, on Tuesday last- 16 October-  Senator O  "Byrne did - ask whether, in view of the dme that had elapsed since the Securities and Exchange Committee completed taking evidence, I could inform the 
Senate of the reasons for the delay in the presentation of a report and give some indication of when a report will be presented. Firstly, -I would like to point out that the Committee completed taking evidence only on 15 June 1973. The Committee  has  met on numerous occasions in deliberative session since then, both during the recess and' during this session, to consider its draft report It should also be remembered that there was a period- during which the Committee was unable to proceed, that is, from the prorogation of Parliament in November 1972 until the Committee 's reconstitution in April 1973. 
The Committee forwarded the first chapter of its report to the Government Printer on 20 August. A further 8 chapters have been forwarded since then. It was only on Friday last- 12 October- that the Committee received the first chapter back from the Government Printer for checking. Honourable senators will be aware of the difficulties that the Government Printer has been experiencing with his new computer setting machinery. Further chapters have been approved by the Committee. Several have yet to be completed. It has been and continues to be the Committee's firm view that there is a special need for great care and accuracy to be taken in the compilation and checking of not only the report but also the many Committee documents being printed with the report. I am sure that has been the practice with previous Senate committees. One can instance the time taken by the Senate Select Committee on Off-Shore Petroleum Resources- a committee of which  Senator O  'Byrne was a member. It took over 4 years .to complete its inquiries. Bearing all those matters in mind, the Senate may be assured that the Committee is making every endeavour to bring in its report as soon as possible. 
I present the following petition from 1 9 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That they oppose the Australian Health Insurance Program and any National Health Scheme. 
That they wish to retain the right to choose their own medical care by selecting a general practitioner, specialist or any other medical classification of their own choice under the present conditions in private consulting rooms and also the right to choose an intermediate ward or private hospital of their own choice. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will take no measure to interfere with the existing health scheme. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. What was the cost of the abortive transport of a substantial quantity of Royal Australian Air 
Force bombs from Sydney to Townsville and back to Sydney? Who was responsible for the fiasco which took 3 days of dithering for a decision to be made as to whether the bombs were to be sent to Darwin or back to Sydney? Who authorised and directed the transport of the bombs to Townsville? Why was the direction countermanded after the trucks arrived in Townsville? 

 -Mr Deputy President, we have just listened to the best that the Government can do by way of reply to a matter of urgency that has been raised by  Senator Wright. Senator Wright  moved the following motion: 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn until tomorrow at 10.SS a.m.- 
As everybody knows, that is the procedure which is used in this place to enable a matter of urgency to be raised for debate. The gravamen of the matter raised by  Senator Wright  is:  for the purpose of debating a matter of urgency, namely, the monopoly power of the Seamen's Union being used to boycott and destroy Tasmania 's seaborne trade. 
The best that  Senator Cavanagh,  on behalf of the Government and as the Minister in this chamber representing a Minister in the other place, could do was 2 things. Firstly, he made a scurrilous attack upon individual members of the Opposition who come from Tasmania and, secondly, he referred totally erroneously to an example which in fact was the very opposite of what he claimed. He referred to an example of the Australian Council of Trade Union resolution in operation, cutting down the adverse effect of strike action and union disputes on Tasmania and its shipping. He referred to the fact that the North Esk' was held up at a time when Tasmania was particularly short of feed grain as a result of the drought and of its normal requirements of flour for flour milling. Although Tasmania grows a considerable quantity of grain, it has to import that which is required for certain aspects of milling. 
During the month, if my recollection is correct, that the dispute existed the situation in Tasmania reached alarming proportions. It was a matter on which I was consulted and on which I had numerous discussions with the representatives of the Australian National Line regarding their attempts to overcome the problem and get the 
North Esk' back on the run. It is certainly my clear recollection that far from the ACTU resolution being in any way effective in reducing the length of the dispute, the dispute became an unduly long one. The 'North Esk' was tied up at Geelong for approximately a month as a result of a dispute which in no way concerned conditions in Tasmania or Tasmanian unions, but which certainly adversely affected a large number of Tasmanians. But apparently the Minister was not able to think of any other example which may be more appropriate. I suggest we could conclude that there are no examples which are more appropriate than one in which union disputes, despite the ACTU resolution, held up the 'North Esk' for approximately a month. So Tasmania suffered severely as a result of that union dispute. 
Over the years we have had dispute after dispute. It is interesting to note the comments in the all party report of the Senate Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade of freight rates on Australian National Line shipping services to and from Tasmania.  Mr Deputy President,  you will recall the report, as will other honourable senators on both sides of the chamber. The section which I am about to quote from page 47 was part of the unanimous report of senators from both the Government and the Opposition. It states: 
Shipping clearly is an industry very sensitive to an adverse industrial climate. This has raised particular problems, especially in passenger services. These were mentioned a number of times in evidence . . . We were told that tieups due to industrial problems had had significant effects on the profitability of the passenger-vehicle ferries on several occasions and had been one of the factors leading to the declining profitability of the Line prior to the 12.3 per cent freight increase. 
The marine stewards ' strike in April and May of this year - 
That is, the year in which the report was written  presented us with a graphic example of the consequences of industrial troubles for the Line and particularly Tor Tasmania, depending as it does so greatly on shipping, which is its economic lifeline. As mentioned earlier, we were told in evidence that the cost to the Line - 
That is, the Australian National Line-  was estimated at approximately $600,000 in net loss of revenue, a major contribution to the Line's profitability problems in the current financial year. 
There was reference repeatedly in evidence to the huge increase in costs which resulted from industrial problems affecting shipping to and from Tasmania. It was for that reason that in the report I added a further recommendation to the recommendations made by the committee. This matter concerned me very greatly at the time, and it still concerns me. I believe that any Tasmanian would be concerned about the fact that our economic future is being sapped away repeatedly and continually as a result of the actions taken by various unions and perhaps even by some employers. But it is the industrial trouble, which very often does not concern Tasmania or Tasmanians but which affects them and destroys the viability of many industries in Tasmania, which concerns me. In the report I said: 
The shipping industry and marine industry generally has, of recent years, been beset by industrial trouble. - 
In particular, the operation of the Australian National Line has been severely disrupted by a series of industrial stoppages which have caused numerous delayed sailings or the complete loss of voyages. 
The effect of these disruptions upon the movement of freight to and from Tasmania has been particularly severe. 
The loss to one Tasmanian export industry alone, which resulted from the ANL stewards' strike in April and May 197 1 was in the order of $4m. 
The total loss to Tasmania is incalculable. 
It does not only affect exporters and importers but it has a serious carry-through effect upon all industry, building and progress generally as well as affecting the domestic consumer. 
There is no practical alternative means of transporting goods held up by such industrial action. 
I regard the question of ensuring freedom from the effects of industrial stoppages as being of vital importance to the State of Tasmania and its people. 
No economies, subsidies or rationalisation of internal transport can offset the disruptive influence of these industrial stoppages. 
I went on to state: 
I therefore RECOMMEND that: 
for a trial period of at least two years the operation of the Australian National Line's interstate freight shipping services to and from Tasmania be declared an essential service with consequent restriction of the right to strike. Such restriction to be negotiated with the Australian Council of Trade Unions and in the absence of agreement to be such legislative limitation imposed by the Government as is consistent with the preservation of the regularity of the ANL's freight shipping services to and from Tasmania and the preservation of the right to take some industrial action for the redress of grievances; 
that a committee be established with representatives of the Federal Government, the State Government, the ANL and the ACTU to consider what permanent measures can be taken to ensure regularity of shipping services of the ANL to and from Tasmania. 
Well, that was 2 years ago. I regret that not very much has been done in those 2 years. Certainly nothing has been done positively to implement the recommendations which I then made. 
I was interested to note that last year during the election campaign the problem of Tasmania was recognised by the now Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  who as the then Leader of the Opposition said that a Labor government would work to make freight and passenger service rates across Bass Strait as cheap per mile as interstate railway freights. How can they be if we are continually to have this heavy imposition of extra costs which result from industrial strife? Very often this industrial strife does not specifically affect Tasmania but Tasmanian shipping services are affected because of some problem that exists somewhere else. I was interested to note that the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Barnard)  said recently that he would arrange a conference in Launceston of various people to discuss the problem. Apparently people in Launceston had been making their complaints known to the  Deputy  Prime Minister and he has at last decided to take some action. He is quoted in 'The Examiner' of 13 October 1973 as saying: 
The meeting will explore ways by which security and continuity of service across Bass Strait can be ensured. 
He said that this meeting would concentrate on the problems caused by freight increases and strikes. So at least the  Deputy  Prime Minister, when speaking in Launceston in his own electorate, is prepared to recognise what  Senator Cavanagh  is not prepared to recognise- that is, the fundamental importance of the disruptive effect of strike action on the Tasmanian economy and Tasmanian shipping services. 
This is a poor excuse. The Minister has given that explanation much in the way his Government bleats about inflation being something that it inherited. Inflation was running at 4.5 per cent when the Government came into office and it has now managed to make it just under 4 times as great. In the same way the number of hours lost as a result of industrial stoppages has doubled since  Senator Cavanagh  's Government came to office and he cannot blame us for the fact that the Government has not done anything positive to implement a program to combat this, except by capitulating to the unions. We all know what sort of attitude was adopted in Europe during the 1 930s. Appeasement did not work then. It is hard to think that appeasement is going to work now. 
I do not subscribe in any way at all to any suggestion that all union action is not justified and that unions should never be allowed to strike. I am not in any way suggesting that that should be the situation. But obviously the system has to be made to work. The State of Tasmania cannot be held to ransom continually and repeatedly unless the Commonwealth is prepared to say: 'Well, all right, if we are not prepared to stop industrial stoppages we will work out another way to have a special section of the VIP flight, not carrying  Mr Barnard  backwards and forwards so that he can attend the opening of the two-up school at the Casino, carry a bit of freight backwards and forwards. ' That might be a better way of utilising the VIP flight. 
One of the points which I think is important is that we have to recognise the extent to which Tasmania is reliant upon air services to overcome the disabilities of freight services. Some people may not be aware that Launceston airport, for instance, is the sixth busiest cargo handling airport in Australia. This airport handles a very great amount of air cargo because so many industries in Tasmania find it necessary to transport their goods by air as the only means by which they can fulfil orders. Air transport is the only regular service which is available to them. 
Tourism is also affected by Tasmanian shipping services. Tasmania is a beautiful island and an ideal tourist State. I am sure that  Senator O  'Byrne will agree with me in that regard even if he disagrees with me on other matters. I am sure that he too would say that Tasmania is a delightful tourist State. It is a State which could be built up tremendously as an oasis for those who are suffering from the effects of the big city life of Melbourne and Sydney. Tourists are able to enjoy a little bit of the State's as yet unspoiled beauty. But what spoils it for people who wish to travel by car to and from Tasmania is the fact that when they visit this State they run the risk of not being able to take their cars home with them because of industrial stoppages. Every Tasmanian senator must have had a series of instances brought to his notice by people who have been adversely affected in this sort of way.  Senator Wriedt  indicates that he has not. All I can say is that I will send some of the people who complain to me about this matter to him so that we can share the experience. This has been a very common experience on my part. I have found that a large number of people have been adversely affected in this way. 
Such a situation must tend to destroy the future employment of the very unionists who cause some of the trouble because if Tasmania is to expand one of the things that must expand with it is shipping; if shipping does not expand one of the things that will be cut down is the employment availability for the people about whom  Senator Cavanagh  expresses his concern and about whom we also express our concern. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Brown)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the Government's science policy? 
) Is it a fact that as yet no clear guidelines for a science policy have been given by the Government to its advisers? 
If such guidelines have been given, what are they? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I refer to the statement made in answer to a question asked by  Senator Drake-Brockman,  that there will be a preliminary inquiry and subsequently a court of marine inquiry into the sinking of the ship 'Blythe Star'. Will the Minister endeavour to ensure that the Government will extend the inquiry into the sinking of the 'Blythe Star' to include the subsequent search and the reasons for the failure of the most expensive maritime search in Australian history which, though using large numbers of defence aircraft and naval ships with all their allegedly sophisticated equipment, failed to locate the survivors while they drifted for 8 days, including across the mouth of the Derwent River? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Australian Academy of Science has made a recommendation for a national biological survey; if so, what steps are being taken to implement the recommendation. 
-The Bill with which we are now concerned is a Bill to create a Schools Commission. It is a matter which has engendered very considerable publicinterest, and I have no doubt that every member of this Parliament will be aware of the extent to which public interest has been created- if one can use that word. The extent of public interest has been so great that I have a huge bundle of telegrams which I have received over the past few weeks. It will not be possible to acknowledge some of them because the senders have not given sufficient address to enable them to be acknowledged, and I make that point here and now. However, I shall endeavour to acknowledge the others. 
The Bill concerns a matter which has been the subject of very considerable debate in the past few years. I refer to the question of whether in Australia we should have a Schools Commission which should be a national or a nationwide body- a body created so that it is able to play,u part in the development and co-ordination Of education in Australia. We as an Opposition Party accept that last year that debate was concluded. It was one of the debates which took place in particular during the election campaign. This question was one of the very important and foremost matters put by the present Government during that election campaign. We accept that the Government has a mandate. We accept that in the view of the majority of Australians there is to be a Schools Commission. Although we had fears as to what might happen, because of some of the things that had been said by various spokesmen on behalf of the Australian Labor Party as to what they conceived a Schools Commission to be, the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  in his second reading speech in the House of Representatives made it quite clear that our fears are no longer well founded. The Minister has made it quite clear that the Government has no intention whatsoever of using the creation of the Schools Commission as a centralising body in the administration of education in Australia. The Opposition wishes to see the Schools Commission work. We wish to see it work successfully in the interests of school students in Australia. 
I believe that the title of this body is somewhat unfortunate. I believe that it is unfortunate to call it a schools commission rather than perhaps an education commission or even a students commission. The question of emphasis upon schools as opposed to an emphasis upon students is one of the matters which will arise in the course of this debate and later in the Committee stage. The Opposition is firm in its view that a schools commission should have primary regard to the interests of students and not the interests of schools. 
The questions that the Schools Commission will be concerned with are primary and secondary education and not pre-school education or any of the other numerous areas in which the Commonwealth is to a greater or a lesser extent involved. There are in Australia slightly fewer than 10,000 schools at which nearly 80 per cent of the students are those attending government operated schools while slightly more than 20 per cent of students are attending non-government schools. 
One of the matters which have been of considerable concern to a large number of people in Australia has been the future of non-government or independent schools. We were pleased to see that, by amendment in the lower House, the Minister recognised that there was perhaps an omission in the Bill as drafted. He proposed an amendment, which was carried in the House of Representatives, making it quite clear that all sections of the Bill dealt with both government and non-government schools. He has expressed his personal view on behalf of his Party that the future of non-government schools is to be assured. 
I emphasise that we are not concerned in this Bill with pre-school education which, again, is a matter of considerable public interest and a matter in which the Government has taken other action, as would we have taken action had we continued in government. Pre-school education is a matter that was referred to in both of the policy speeches before the last House of Representatives election. 
The general position is that the principles with which we are concerned in the Schools Commission Bill were explained by the Minister for Education in his second reading speech. I wish to quote certain parts of that speech because these aspects are a recognition of the realities of the situation in relation to primary and secondary education in Australia. The Minister for Education said: 
Our approach is to establish Commissions of expert advisers rather than a vast centralised administrative machine. Diversity and innovation in education at the school level are desirable. 1 think the reference should be to a commission rather than Commissions. Later, the Minister said: 
The States will retain responsibility for administering their own educational programs but will have available to them greatly increased funds for the purpose. 
A further quotation to which I wish to refer is his emphasis on the fact that: 
The role of the Australian Government in schools conducted by State governments or by non-government authorities is not a primary role but it is a vital role. The States establish state schools and register non-government schools. 
In those quotations we see a clear recognition by the Minister on behalf of the Government of the twofold role in education- the role of government schools and the role of the States in relation to the conduct of those schools. We see that the Government is recognising what was put to it very strongly and firmly by the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission, commonly known as the Karmel Committee, that there should not be a centralisation of the administration of education in Australia. 
It is interesting to note that the Karmel Committee was quite firm in the recommendations which it made in that respect. The Karmel Committee made it quite clear that, so far as it was concerned, it regarded diversity, innovation and decentralisation as important. I wish to quote 2 parts from chapter 1 3 of the report of the Karmel Committee. The Committee states in paragraph 2 of that chapter: 
The constitutional responsibility for the provision of public education rests primarily with the States, as at present does the major financial commitment. The Committee believes that the Commission's influence should be of a general kind and that it should not intervene in or interfere with the management of schools or school systems. 
Later, in the same paragraph, it states: 
Moreover, the Committee's attachment to diversity is an argument against a centralist approach to educational matters. 
It states further, in the same paragraph: 
In the light of these considerations, the Committee has formed the opinion that the Commission should concern itself more with providing incentives for the schools to move in one direction or another, than with delineating a particular mode! of. precise development. 
These are all principles to which the Opposition not only has no objection but also gives wholehearted support. 
It is unfortunate, 1 believe, that the Government has not to date given us an opportunity to debate the report of the Karmel Committee in the Senate and, in particular, has not given us an opportunity to debate heretofore chapter 13 of that report which is that part relating to the Schools Commission and the questions of administration and accountability generally. I believe that there would be considerable advantage to the Government, to those interested in education and to the final result which could be achieved in the interests of education in Australia had it been possible to have a debate in this chamber on that report before the legislation was introduced. I believe that the Government might have received considerable advantage from taking that course. I draw attention to the fact that it is the Government which is responsible for the Karmel Committee report not being debated in this chamber before this date. This is not a debate on the Karmel Committee report; it is a debate on the Schools Commission Bill. We are still awaiting the opportunity to debate that report in general terms. 
The other point which I make at this stage is that the Government has not yet even announced its attitude in relation to the general matters referred to in chapter 13 of that report. It announced earlier that it accepted the remainder of the report with the exception of certain aspects of the phasing out of aid to categorised schools. It has accepted the remainder of the report but it has not announced its intentions with regard to chapter 1 3, unless we can take the presentation of the Schools Commission Bill as the announcement by the Government of at least one part of its attitude in that respect. I believe that it is of the utmost importance that the wide and divergent views of people greatly concerned with education, many of whom are expert in educational matters, should be able to be taken into account and considered by this Parliament before the legislation is passed. I refer again to the fact that the debate which can take place in this chamber is a matter upon which people can comment. It can give a feedback to members of Parliament and can provide information to members of Parliament which is likely to lead in the long run to better legislation and better education. 
The Karmel Committee did expound a number of principles to which I wish to refer. One is that it endorsed federalism in relation to education. It would be hard not to do so because the constitutional realities in Australia, whether people like it or not, are that the States have been given the power by the Constitution in relation to education. The Commonwealth has not the power and it is only by the use or, as some people would claim, the misuse of section 96 that it is able to take action in relation to education outside the Territories. 
The cost of education and the needs of education are sufficiently great to involve the Commonwealth Government of necessity. What has happened with the Schools Commission is a recognition that there is clearly a role to be played on a national basis but that the constitutional realities are that the day to day administration of education in the States is a State function carried out by the State departments of education, with the exception of the nongovernment sector which, again, is not a direct administrative responsibility of the Commonwealth. The Karmel Committee also endorsed its belief in non-government and government school systems and individual schools. That is an important matter to many people in Australia who were afraid that perhaps there was a move to limit in some way or to curtail the right of people to choose the type of education which was to be given to their children. 
The Karmel Committee also emphasised the need for greater independence within the government school system. This is a matter which the Opposition would emphasise and emphasise again, as a fundamental belief, as being one of the important developments which is taking place in Australia and which must be encouraged to continue to take place in Australia. It is necessary that, far from centralising education, in the interests of diversity and in the interests of innovation we should be able to have a greater degree of independence within those education systems which exist. The Karmel Committee made it quite clear that it was opposed to a centralised bureaucracy. It made it quite clear that it recognised the need for diversity, for innovation and for local involvement and participation in education- all matters which have of late in a number of countries, in particular Australia, received the support of a large number of people who are concerned with and are active in questions related to education. 
The Committee acknowledged research and the necessity for vastly increased research activity in relation to education. 
I repeat that these are matters which the Opposition would emphasise. I take this opportunity to refer to a publication of last year entitled 'Education in Australia: The Liberal Party's Objectives and Achievements'. There are some who would claim that it has been the new Government which has done all these magnificent things in education which the former Government did not. I refute that suggestion. I suggest that some of the developments in education which have taken place this year were very largely in the pipeline under the former Government. I suggest further that a number of things would have been done by the former Government which have not been done by the present Government. But this is not the time to develop an argument in relation to this issue. So I simply refer to the booklet of which I made mention a moment ago. 
'Education in Australia: The Liberal Party's Objectives and Achievements'. It was published last year. I mention 2 overriding objectives which are referred to- encouraging a variety of educational institutions and encouraging local educational research programs to identify the major educational needs and problems and to ensure that Australian solutions are developed on soundly based analytical work. I have mentioned but two of the numerous objectives which are set out. The passage continues: 
Our role is to provide the leadership necessary to develop programs directed towards these ends by: 
Working in co-operation with the States and other authorities; encouraging greater local contribution and interest in the day to day running of the educational institutions and avoiding the centralised control. 
The Liberal approach is aimed at releasing energies, removing obstacles and encouraging innovation. 
The Karmel Committee must have used our publication as a basis for its report. It is surprising to find how things which it emphasised and the matters which it found so important were published last year in the document 'Education in Australia: The Liberal Party's Objectives and Achievements'. I take this opportunity to mention that fact because there are many people in Australia who tend to be snowed under by the weight of public relations work which has been poured out by this Government in relation to education- not all of it accurate, and some of it grossly misrepresenting the true situation. 
I refer also to the speech made by the Minister for Education in the House of Representatives. He said: 
I regard clause 13 sub-clause (3) (d) as vital. The Commission is to have regard to 'the needs of disadvantaged schools and of students at disadvantaged schools, and of other students suffering disadvantages in relation to education for social, economic ethnic, geographic, cultural, lingual or similar reasons'. Here is a fruitful field of advice as to how the Australian Government may exercise its power to grant benefits to students. The Commission is likewise empowered to give similar advice in relation to the academically, scientifically, artistically or musically gifted students. 
Those sentiments, those principles and those expressions of attitude have the total support of the Opposition. 
I pass to another aspect of the Minister's second reading speech which is important. It is important in relation to the debate on education which has taken place in Australia. I refer to what is often termed 'the needs principle' or adopting the needs principle' in relation to education. I regard this issue as one of the most confused issues- and deliberately confused in some respects- that can be identified in education. It is unfortunate that there has been confusion, but the fact is that the previous Government had adopted a needs approach which was fulfilled in a variety of ways and which was described as being integral to the whole of its program in relation to education. All that has happened is that a new phrase has been coined by the present Government, which has said: 'We have adopted a needs approach'. That statement makes the approach sound as though it was new and interesting. It is old hat. All that has happened is that there has been a variation of the approach, a further development of it, and some tremendous disadvantages in the way in which it is implemented. 
There are different ways of approaching the question of needs. What is certain is that in education there needs to be, because of the cost involved and because of the long term involved in changing programs, in developing physical facilities, in training teachers and in all the rest of the matters which are involved, a degree of certainty and a degree of planning. We hope that we will be able to get this from the Schools Commission. We will not get it if we get the sort of nonsense that we have had in relation to the categorisation of non-government schools. I take the opportunity to mention but one aspect as a bad example of what can happen to planning as a result of what may be regarded as somewhat ill-considered developments. In relation to the categorisation of schools the most recent report from the Interim Committee, when it gave the result of the appeals, stated: 
The Committee wishes to reaffirm that following the appeals categories are fixed for the years 1974 and 1975. It stresses that schools should not attempt to anticipate subsequent bases for assessment of need. The Committee wishes to emphasise that future financial assistance will be dependent upon maintenance of standards as reflected in resource usage and continuing reasonable effort on the part of non-government school authorities. 
Interpreted, that means that if, as a result of a reduction in the grant which was formerly received by a school, it has to reduce the number of teachers and thereby increase the pupilteacher ratio or go broke, the school must go broke. I have not the slightest doubt that this is the sort of thing which the Committee did not intend. 
I suggest to the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  that it is something which needs explanation, for the sake of the schools which are concerned, so that we do not get the confusion which is reigning in Australia at the moment. There has been considerable confusion in that area which is the major area which has been actually put into effect in relation to individual schools in Australia. If that is any indication of what will come in the future, we have created a monster. I trust that it is no indication of what will come in the future. I trust that it is a result only of work which was hurried because the Government insisted that it be hurried and because there was not time to think through fully and carefully the natural results of some of the things which were being recommended. I raise the matter as a warning. It is important in education in Australia that there be long term planning and that there be the opportunity for some co-ordination and co-operation between the various authorities in education and administration. Let us hope that we do not have any more examples of that sort of problem in relation to education where, rather than solving problems, they are being created. 
I deal now with the general structure of the Schools Commission. We have the promise which was made by  Mr Whitlam.  I have already referred to the fact that the Opposition, in approaching this matter, whatever its attitudes may have been in the past, recognises that the Australian situation now is that people have indicated that they wish to have a Schools Commission approach. If they indicated that and if there is a mandate it is upon the basis of the promise that was made by the present Government when in Opposition. One of the important aspects of that promise is contained in what  Mr Whitlam  said. He said: 
A Federal Labor Government will . . . 
I will leave out some of the things which are promises that have been broken already. He went on: 
. allocate increased grants for 1974 and subsequent years on the basis of recommendations prepared and published by the Expert Schools Commission which will include persons familiar with and representative of the State departments, the catholic system and the teaching profession. 
That is a quote from a promise which was made and which constitutes, if one accepts the mandate theory, the mandate which the Government has to set up the Schools Commission. It is interesting that if one notes the aspect of the Labor Party's policy which was settled at the Launceston Conference and which was unaltered at the Brisbane or Gold Coast Conference - 
Thank you. Someone more expert than I in the affairs of the Labor Party is able to correct me and I thank him. The Surfers Paradise Conference - 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the Prime Minister wrote an, as yet, undisclosed letter to the Karmel Committee or its Chairman; if so, did that letter give directions in relation to some aspects of the Committee 's recommendations. 
In the interests of 'open Government', will the Minister arrange for the tabling in the Senate of all letters, formal or informal, written by the Prime Minister, or any other Minister, to Professor Karmel as Chairman of the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission. 
Will the Minister disclose all information which the Committee received from the Government which enabled the Committee to take Government policy into account in the preparation of its Report. 
I wish to make a few remarks about this matter before seeking leave to continue my remarks. The Bill is one which has an aspect of urgency to it. It is that aspect of urgency to which I wish to refer this afternoon. However, before doing so, I wish to indicate not only that the Opposition will not oppose the Bill but also that it is delighted to see that the Government is pursuing a policy which was a fundamental policy of the Opposition when in Government. The Opposition certainly will not be opposing the Bill, although it will have some comments to make about various aspects of it. I take this opportunity of the Bill first being called on to inquire as to what is happening in relation to the preparation of the regulations which will be made under the legislation when it is passed. There is considerable confusion throughout Australia at the moment as to what the regulations will require and when they will become operative. There are a number of people planning for next year, particularly at the tertiary level, who do not know whether they will be able to retain scholarships they already hold or whether they will have to forgo special scholarships- that is, non-government scholarships- which they may have in order to be entitled to the advantages of the scholarships to be provided by this legislation. I simply urge upon the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  that he pass on to his colleague the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  who, I trust, has now recovered or will recover shortly, the urgency of making known publicly what the regulations will contain. I seek an undertaking from the Minister that he will do everything he can to ensure, in the interests of people being able to plan for next year and people being able to know where they are going and what their rights are going to be, that this does happen. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Can the Minister provide any details of the terms of the agreement between Bond Corporation's Sun City Pty Ltd, and the Tokyu Corporation of Japan relating to the Yanchep development. 
Is it a fact that the Commonwealth proposes to acquire part of that land; if so, what is the agreed price which the Commonwealth is to pay Sun City Pty Ltd. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is it part of the Government's policy to maintain interest rates at an unusually high level? If it is not, will the Minister ask his colleagues the Treasurer and the Minister for Urban and Regional Development to consider the position of local government bodies which have particularly heavy and to them unusual loan raising needs to cover programs such as sewerage? Will the Minister seek to have his colleagues assist such local government bodies which otherwise must enter into long term- 15 years or more- commitments to pay the current unusually high interest rates, thereby imposing a long term extra burden upon municipal ratepayers? 
-Whilst the Opposition accepts that the Government has control of the business of the Senate and is free to move the adjournment of the debate and whilst the Opposition will not oppose the motion, it wishes the fact to be noted that it is the Government that is deferring this matter for a further day. We would have been quite content to go ahead with this legislation forthwith. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a Second time. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What committees, commissions and other forms of inquiry have been established by the present Government since 2 December 1972. 
What numbers of (a) members and (b) staff have been appointed to each such body. 
What has been the cost of advertising associated with each such body. 
I present the following petition from 16 citizens of Tasmania: 
To the honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That they oppose the Australian health insurance program and any national health scheme. 
That they wish to retain the right to choose their own medical care by selecting a general practitioner, specialist or any other medical classification of their own choice under the present conditions in private consulting rooms and also the right to choose an intermediate ward or private hospital of their own choice. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will take no measure to interfere with the existing health scheme. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
For the information of honourable senators and a number of people throughout Australia who are uncertain about this matter, will the Attorney-General indicate who appoints scrutineers for both polling and counting at a referendum? If the Minister does not know, will he check and let us know tomorrow? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment and Conservation. As the Premier of Tasmania has not officially responded to the Commonwealth offer of $8m for a moratorium on Lake Pedder but has, by public statement, indicated that it will be rejected, and as it is increasingly and tragically clear that the destruction by pollution of the Derwent and Tamar Rivers and possibly parts of the north west coast of Tasmania is taking place, will the Minister reconsider the offer and give to the Tasmanian Premier the option of accepting it in relation to the cost of steps necessary to save those rivers and the coastline as an alternative to accepting the offer for a moratorium on Lake Pedder. 
In relation to this clause the Opposition has an amendment which it wishes to move. We wish to add to the definitions a definition relating to the Australian Education Council in the Bill. However, in view of the fact that this amendment is related to an amendment to a later clause it is my suggestion that we defer consideration of this amendment until we consider amendment No. 5 in the list of amendments which has been circulated. It is my further suggestion that the two of them, that is amendment No. 1 and amendment No. 5, be taken together as the one hinges upon the other. It will simplify the proceedings of the Senate if they are taken together. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to claims emanating from the College of Advanced Education in Tasmania that that college's budget has been cut from $ 15.8m to $12m necessitating a reduction in the number and the extent of the courses available at that college? Is it a fact that that has happened? If it is a fact, what were the reasons for the cut in the budget? Is there any prospect of it being restored? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment and Conservation. As the Premier of Tasmania now has turned down the offer of $8m for expenditure on a moratorium on the flooding of Lake Pedder, and as the Minister has displayed such keen interest in the conservation of the environment of Australia's most beautiful State- Tasmania- and further, as it is increasingly and tragically clear that the destruction by pollution of the Derwent and Tamar Rivers and possibly parts of the north-west coast of Tasmania is taking place, will the Minister reconsider the offer and give the Tasmanian Government an opportunity to accept the money to meet the cost of steps necessary to save those rivers and that coastline? 
I thought it might be fair if I summed up on behalf of the Opposition. I thought it might be relevant if I drew attention to the fact that an election is to take place in New South Wales, strangely enough, within a couple of days. 

 - Mr President, may I address you and the chamber? 
I thought it might be of interest to point that out until the Minister for the Media,  Senator McClelland,  made clear what this exercise has been all about. He made it quite clear that it is related to an attempt on behalf of the Labor Party to achieve a change of government in New South Wales. I am reminded of the fact that the last time similar tactics were engaged in in this chamber was immediately prior to the State election in Queensland. 

 - Senator Poke wants me to refer to Tasmania. Strangely enough, in this chamber tonight so far I have not referred to Tasmania. I remind honourable senators that an inquiry is being conducted in that State, but it is being conducted in the way in which one would expect it to be conducted- that is, by State authorities. If some matter involving allegations related to the government of a State arises, the proper place for the inquiry to take place is in that State. No doubt  Senator Poke  has a very close interest in the outcome of the inquiry which is being conducted in Tasmania as has one of his other colleagues from this House of the Parliament - 
-Thank you,  Mr President.  I go on, if I may, to say this: I have not the slightest doubt that  Senator Poke,  having occupied an office in a Party which was involved in allegations which are being investigated, would be anxious to have the matter clarified in the spirit in which some of the members of his Party have professed to be anxious to see the matters alleged to have taken place in New South Wales clarified. I find it hard to believe that  Senator Poke  should take exception to that unless he wishes us to believe that he is not anxious to have matters such as that cleared up. I simply point to the fact that the 2 occasions on which this Senate has been treated as it has this evening have been in the few days before an election in a State. One was in relation to an election in Queensland and now it is an election in relation to New South Wales. I think that if that fact is reported the basis upon which this matter has been debated tonight may be judged by all fair readers. 
I present the following petition from 20 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That they oppose the Australian Health Insurance Program and any National Health Scheme. 
That they wish to retain the right to choose their own medical care by selecting a General Practitioner, Specialist or any other medical classification of their own choice under the present conditions in private consulting rooms and also the right to choose an intermediate ward or private hospital of their own choice. 
Your petitioners thereby humbly pray that the Government will take no measure to interfere with the existing health scheme. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
The Opposition will not oppose this amendment. In fact, we are delighted to see that the Government recognises one of the numerous defects which exist in the Bill as presented to this chamber. We are glad to see that there is a clear recognition of this position and that there is not to be a segregation or separation in relation to government schools and non-government schools unless that is specifically provided for within a particular part of the Bill. In the circumstances I wish to draw attention to only one other matter and that is the fact that there is still this emphasis by the Government upon schools and not students. The Government's amendment fails to acknowledge that what we are really dealing with in relation to education in Australia is the question of the education of students and not the interests of schools. It is unfortunate that the Government, notwithstanding the remarks which have been made from time to time in the debate in this chamber and in the House of Representatives and in the Press for that matter, still has not seen fit to refer to students rather than to schools or to students and schools. With those comments we are delighted to support the amendment moved by the Minister in this chamber. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Motion (by  Senator Rae)  agreed to: 
That further consideration of clause 3 be postponed. 
Clause 4. 
The Commission shall consist of- 
such number of other members, not being less than four nor more than eleven, as is from time to time prescribed. 
The  Chairman  and each other full-time member shall be appointed for a term not exceeding seven years, and each parttime member shall be appointed for a term not exceeding three years. 
Clause 4 of the Bill provides: 4. (1) There shall be a Commission by the name of the Schools Commission. 
) The Commission shall consist of- 
a Chairman; and 
such number of other members, not being less than four nor more than eleven, as is from time to time prescribed. 
) A member shall be appointed by the Governor-General. 
I pause there to draw attention to the fact that that means that a member of the Commission as proposed by this Bill is a person who is, in effect, appointed by the Minister at the total discretion of the Minister. Clause 4 continues: 
The  Chairman  and each other full-time member shall be appointed for a term not exceeding seven years, and each parttime member shall be appointed for a term not exceeding three years. 
A member is eligible for re-appointment. 
The performance of the functions of the Commission is not affected by reason only of there being a vacancy in the office of a member. 
In summary the clause with which we are concerned is one of the fundamental clauses of the Bill before the Committee. The clause provides for the creation of a schools commission consisting of a chairman and between 4 and 1 1 other members appointed totally at the discretion of the Commonwealth Minister for Education. As we understand it, the Commonwealth Minister has already indicated to the members of the reconstituted Interim Schools Committee that they will in fact be appointed as members of the Schools Commission. The Minister has indicated to them that when this legislation has been passed by the Parliament they will be appointed as members of the Schools Commission. 
I remind everybody that the second reading of the Bill was supported unanimously in this chamber. So in regard to all this rubbish which has been coming from people with particular barrows to push, personal interests to secure, perhaps a little malice to give expression to when talking about the Opposition in this chamber opposing the legislation and saying that the Senate is killing the Bill and other like comments, the fact is that the Bill has now achieved its second reading. The only question remaining relates to some of the amendments which are to be moved in relation to it. I remind the Committee that the original speech made by me on behalf of the Opposition when the Bill first came on for debate indicated that the Opposition would certainly support the creation of a schools commission. I indicated further that we accepted that although there had been debate last year as to whether it was appropriate in Australia, with the division of power that existed with the desirability of decentralisation in education and with all of the other arguments which were put forward at that time, to have a centralised schools commission, that debate is now over. 
We accept that the Government has a mandate to carry out the general policy which was put forward at the time of the last election. I think it would help the consideration of the Committee if I were to remind honourable senators of the contents of the promise. I think it is particularly relevant in relation to the amendments which I shall be moving. The now Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  then Leader of the Opposition, said in his policy speech: 
The Australian Labor Party believes that the Commonwealth should adopt the same methods to assist schools as it has adopted to assist universities and colleges of advanced education- through a Commission. We will establish an Australian Schools Commission to examine and determine the needs of students in Government and non-government primary, secondary and technical schools. I propose to prepare for the statutory Schools Commission as  Sir Robert  Menzies prepared for the Universities Commission. 
He went on to say what  Sir Robert  Menzies did. The Prime Minister continued: 
I shall write before Christmas to a small group of leading educationists, including representatives of the State and Catholic systems. I shall write in precisely the same terms as  Sir Robert,  requesting for the schools, as he did for universities, recommendations upon 'their financial needs and appropriate means of providing for these needs '. 
He went on to say that it would not be necessary to delay the appointment of the commission and that the report would be promptly published and that this would help in the making of his Party's plans. The Prime Minister continued: 
A Federal Labor Government will: 
Continue all grants under Commonwealth legislation throughout 1973; 
Remove the ceiling imposed by Commonwealth legislation on grants in 1 974 and subsequent years; 
Paragraph 3, the important part, apropos the amendment which I propose to move in relation to this clause, states: 
Allocate the increased grants for 1974 and subsequent years on the basis of recommendations prepared and published by the expert Schools Commission which will include persons familiar with and representative of the State departments, the Catholic system and the teaching profession. 
I simply re-emphasise those words used by the Prime Minister in his policy speech- that the schools commission to be created by a Labor government would include persons familiar with and representative of- I wish to underline the words 'representative of- the State departments, the Catholic system and the teaching profession. That was the promise made. That is the mandate, if one accepts the mandate theory. For the purposes of this matter we accept that there is a clear mandate to create a schools commission. We now wish to see it work. We will do what we can to make suggestions to the Government which, no doubt, if they are passed by the Government, will be taken back to the Minister for Education, or if he is still unwell to the Acting Minister for Education, and back to those in the Government who will consider them. 
If in the normal development of the processes of constitutional democracy and the processes of parliamentary democracy the wishes of one chamber are not acceded to by the other chamber then the other chamber has its options as to what it does. I remind the Committee that there has been a certain amount of publicity and statements by the Minister for Education and statements even by the Prime Minister as to what will happen if the Senate dares to exercise its parliamentary right of reviewing legislation put forward by the executive government. This chamber has a right to amend, if it sees fit to do so; it has a right to review. These are not rights to be taken away by those who would petulantly threaten to take their bat and ball home if they are not elected captain. To put it in other terms, unless this chamber is prepared to rubber stamp entirely that which the Minister requires, the Minister will not go on with what is regarded by the Australian people and apparently by the lower House- and this would be the majority view of this chamber- as something which is desirable in the interests of education of Australia, that is, the creation of a schools commission. 
I wish to emphasise again that the stories, the misapprehensions and the concerns which have been deliberately developed among various sections of the community in regard to the Opposition's intentions on this legislation have been mischievous, deceptive and totally wrong. One finds repetition after repetition of these deceptive statements which have created considerable confusion in the minds of the Australian people. For that reason I repeat that the Opposition does not wish to destroy the Schools Commission and the Opposition does not wish to argue that the Schools Commission should not be created. The Opposition, however, does have constructive suggestions and proposals to put before this chamber for its consideration. 
I would like to support some of the comments that were made by the Minister in his second reading speech in regard to the importance of the job which the Schools Commission can do for the future of education in Australia. The Opposition has taken this matter very seriously. In my experience as a member of this Parliament I cannot recall another matter which has involved a greater amount of discussion. I recall that  Senator McManus  referred in his speech on the second reading to the amount of time which the Australian Democratic Labor Party had spent in considering this Bill and the questions and proposals relating to the amendments. I simply restate that I cannot recall a matter which has received more consideration and discussion with community groups and in the Party committees and Party rooms. 
There has been very widespread discussion and communication between the Liberal and Country Party Education Committee and community groups on this matter. This discussion has not been limited to any sector of the community. In fact it has included both government and nongovernment schools sectors. In addition, university people have been able to discuss their ideas on education as have various other experts from a wide cross section of educational fields in relation to primary and secondary school children. The Committee has met on a number of occasions to discuss the proposed amendments to the legislation. It considered a number of drafts. The amendments which have been circulated to honourable senators in this chamber are the product of those discussions, that consideration, that research and the development of a policy attitude over a considerable period of time. The Opposition has also taken into account, and put forward as a relevant consideration to this chamber when considering the amendmentsthe remarks made by the Prime Minster in his policy speech which gives the Government the mandate- if one accepts the mandate theory- to create the Schools Commission. The Prime Minister said that the Commission would include representatives of State education departments, the Catholic system and teachers. The Opposition would add, of course, that the area of representation is a little limited. But the Prime Minister accepted the principle that the Schools Commission should be comprised of people who were familiar with and representative of particular areas of education. 
As I pointed out earlier, the Bill does not give any such guarantee. There is no provision in the Bill which would guarantee the right of representation to parents, teachers or any of the other groups referred to, including State education departments. As the Bill is drafted at this stage representation will be made at the whim of the Minister for Education. What the Opposition sees as being desirable is an amendment which will increase the number on the Schools Commission from a total of 12, which is the number set out in the Bill, to a total of 15 which would be 14 members plus a  Chairman.  I would like to draw attention to what the report of the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission, which has become known as the Karmel Committee report, had to say on this matter. In chapter 13 (4) the Committee stated: 
The Committee suggests that a Commission comprising a Chairman and three or four full-time commissioners with, say, six part-rime commissioners, would be an appropriate structure. 
But the Committee did not say that the Schools Commission must in its scheme of things comprise only that number. The Committee was referring to an approximate number, and its approximate number would be a number comprising a  Chairman,  three or four full time commissionerssay 4 full time commissioners- making a total of 5 full time members, and 6 part time commissioners which makes a total of 1 1 members on the Commission. The Minister in his wisdom has thought it fit to make provision for 12 members. As a result of consideration and discussion the Opposition believes that it would be desirable to have 15 members. 
We believe that this amendment should be considered in the light of other amendments which will be moved later but which, because we are dealing with the Bill clause by clause, I shall not debate at length at this stage. But what we propose is that - 
I thank the Committee. With the indulgence of the Committee I propose to make a number of remarks at this stage which will not be made at later stages and which do gather up a number of aspects of the debate. 
To explain amendment No. 3 it is desirable to make some reference to amendments Nos. 4 and 5. 1 am bringing these amendments together at this stage although I will explain them in more detail when we come to to them. But I wish at this stage to refer to them all so as to give some explanation as to why the Opposition wants to increase the number of members on the Schools Commission to 15 members. 
I was not suggesting that. But if the Government wishes that these amendments be taken together, that is a matter which - 
I did propose to take these amendments separately because it is possible that someone else in the chamber may wish to move an amendment to the first, second or third amendment. 
But in explanation of amendment No. 3 I think it is desirable to make some reference to amendments Nos 4 and 5. 
I would not want to be taken as in any way wishing to confine the right of  Senator James  McClelland to speak in relation to any of the matters which are involved in this Bill. It was an attempt to have the debate follow a particular course. Perhaps I should not have tried to explain what this amendment was all about by referring to some of the other amendments. I completely agree with what  Senator Douglas  McClelland has suggested, that we go on to a major debate, bearing in mind that the effect of this amendment will be an increase in the size of the proposed Schools Commission to fifteen. We deal with this by dealing with amendment No. 5 at this stage, and then we would go back to the preceding amendments. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
It occurs to me that there is perhaps one unfortunate aspect of the procedure which has been adopted and that is that the remarks that I wish to make are of necessity fairly lengthy to explain the various aspects of amendment No. 5 and will interrupt  Senator James  McClelland. Therefore I shall formally move the amendment and enable  Senator James  McClelland to make the reply which he was in the process of making and then I will join in the debate once it has been opened up. I move: 
After clause 4, insert the following new clauses: 4a. The members of the Commission shall be appointed as follows: 
the  Chairman  and live other members upon the recommendation of the Minister and of whom two shall be members of teacher organizations selected by the Minister from a panel of not less than five persons' names submitted by the Australian Teachers' Federation and one shall be a person involved in research in relation to education; 
six other members upon the recommendation of the Australian Education Council and of whom two shall be members of parent organizations selected by the Australian Education Council from a panel of not less than five persons' names submitted by the Australian Council of State School Organizations and one shall be a person involved in special education of handicapped children or children with special learning difficulities; and 
three other members of whom one shall be appointed upon the recommendation of the Education Executive of the Episcopal Conference of Australia, one shall be upon the recommendation of the National Council of Independent Schools and one shall be upon the recommendation of the Australian Parents ' Council. 4B. A member shall not be responsible to the body or organization which recommended the member or submitted the member's name in a panel of names. '. 
The Committee will recall that I indicated that because perhaps of some misunderstanding  Senator James  McClelland was interrupted and I wanted him to complete what he had to say. But I feel that he did get a little to the stage of the cart going before the horse. I shall refer, first of all, to the provisions of the Bill before us and then to the specific amendment which I wish to move. The position is that the Bill provides for a Commission, as I said, of up to 12 people appointed totally at the discretion of the Commonwealth Minister for Education. For reasons which I have not yet had any real opportunity to outline, it is the Opposition's view that after clause 4, about which there has been discussion already, there should be inserted a new clause 4A and a new clause 4B. Accordingly I have moved:  4A. The members of the Commission shall be appointed as follows: 
the  Chairman  and five other members upon the recommendation of the Minister and of whom two shall be members of teacher organizations selected by the Minister from a panel of not less than five persons' names, submitted by the Australian Teachers' Federation and one shall be a person involved in research in relation to education; 
six other members upon the recommendation of the Australian Education Council and of whom two shall be members of parent organizations selected by the Australian Education Council from a panel of not less than five persons' names submitted by the Australian Council of State School Organizations and one shall be a person involved in special education of handicapped children or children with special learning difficulties; and 
three other members of whom one shall be appointed upon the recommendation of the Education Executive of the Episcopal Conference of Australia, one shall be  upon the recommendation of the National Council of Independent Schools and one shall be upon the recommendation of the Australian Parents' Council. 4b. A member shall not be responsible to the body or organ isation which recommended the member or submitted the member's name in a panel of names. 
What the Opposition has in mind is to comprehend a number of what we believe have been strongly held views of a variety of people, including even the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  as expressed in past statements and actions, of the Labor Party in its approved policy speech, and of a number of organisations throughout Australia which are interested in education, and basically supported by the Constitution. 
The position in Australia is this: There are 3 administrative power areas in relation to primary and secondary school education. We believe that it is totally unreal to approach the question of primary and secondary school education in Australia from the point of view of a failure to recognise the existence of those 3 major administrative power areas. Those areas are as follows- and not necessarily in order of importance. The first is the Commonwealth area administered by the Commonwealth Minister for Education, in relation to which he has the responsibility of the administration of schools in the Territories- the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. There is also the administrative aspect in relation to the expenditure of Commonwealth funds in the state and non-government school areas. 
The second administrative power area which must be recognised, in my suggestion to honourable senators, not only is in existence but is the major administrative power area in Australia. This is a fact recognised by the Minister in his second reading speech and also recognised by the Acting Minister for Education  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  in the second reading speech which he made on the States Grants (Schools) Bill 1973 that was introduced into the House of Representatives last Thursday. That major administrative power area is the State government area. Under the Constitution, the States clearly have the overall education responsibility but certainly have responsibility in relation to primary and secondary schools which are the ones with which we are concerned here. Thirdly, the non-government school sector, although diverse, can be regarded collectively as an administrative power area. An attempt to set up an Australian Schools Commission which fails to recognise the existence of the administrative power areas is, in our submission, a Schools Commission which is bound to fail. 
We all know the problems which have arisen already in relation to the recommendations of the Interim Committee- the Karmel Committeebecause of this very point. There was an inadequacy of communication between the nongovernment schools which were categorised by the Karmel Committee and the Committee itself. I do not wish to re-open in detail the debate that has taken place already in that regard. I just wish to make this point: Much of the problem which arose in relation to those schools and the fact that so many appeals were upheld are, I believe, proof of my point that there was a lack of communication and that problems did arise. Let us hope that they do not arise on the massive scale on which they could arise through a failure of adequate communication between the various administrative power areas involved in primary and secondary education in Australia. If the Minister genuinely believes in the creation of a body which does not have a direct liaison with all of those major administrative power areas and if it is not felt in those major administrative power areas that they have some say in the creation of the body, the Minister is indulging in Alice in Wonderland type thoughts if he thinks the body will work. It prospects of working as at present constructed are dim, in our view. We see it as important that it should work. 
I deny emphatically the suggestions made by  Senator James  McClelland that this is an attempt to destroy the Bill. I repeat that we see it as desirable and necessary that if there is to be a Schools Commission, it should be a Schools Commission with a prospect of working. We also see it as desirable to start from the point of view of considering its constitution and identification and therefore the involvement of the major power areas. Therefore, we propose a Schools Commission of 15 members. Six of the members will be appointed by the Commonwealth Minister and six will be appointed by the Australian Education Council which is, of course, that body of State ministers responsible for education and the Commonwealth Minister for Education meeting together. I take the opportunity to point out that, of course, the Commonwealth Minister is a member of the Australian Education Council and would have an opportunity to have his say in the deliberations of that body as to the persons to be appointed by it to the Schools Commission. So if there were some person that the Australian Education Council was considering to appoint that the Minister thought was totally unsuitable for one reason or another, he has the opportunity to argue that this is so and to put forward his reasons to have them taken into account by the other ministers before they make their nominations for appointment. 
Then, we would suggest that upon a pro rata basis of the number of children who are involved in government schools and the number of children involved in non-government schools, the representation of the non-government school area would be appropriately a 20 per cent basis. The number of children involved in this area of education represents slightly more than 20 per cent of the total number. But the closest percentage one can obtain on the basis of 3 out of 15 children is 20 per cent as the appropriate representation of the non-government school area. That is the first stage of my explanation of the Opposition's view in relation to the constitution of the Schools Commission. I take this opportunity to read again the Labor Party view on this matter as expressed in the policy speech of the Prime Minister, the then Leader of the Opposition. He said: 
Education is the prime example of community service which should involve the entire community- not just the Education departments and the Catholic school authorities and the Headmasters ' Conference, not just parents and teachers, but the taxpayers as a whole. The quality of the community's response to the needs of the education system will determine the quality of the system. But the community must first know and understand the needs. We reject the proposition that administrative convenience should over-ride the real needs of schools. We reject the argument that well-endowed schools should get as much help from the Commonwealth as the poorest state or parish school, just because it is easier to count heads than to measure needs. 
I read the latter part of that paragraph not because I regard it as relevant to the point to which I wanted to address my remarks but for the sake of completeness. I point out that the Prime Minister then went on with that part which I have already quoted and in which he talks about representatives of the State departments, the Catholic system and the teaching profession. So what we are suggesting is quite in line with the policy speech of the Prime Minister delivered before the general election in December last year. What we are proposing goes a little further than the first outline which I have given. I remind the Senate that it is based upon a recognition of the 3 administrative power areas that must be drawn together to act co-operatively and with a feeling of involvement if the Schools Commission is to work. We then propose to recognise certain other aspects which we regard as desirable aspects of involvement in a Schools Commission. That is that there should be representation from the area of teachers in primary and secondary schools. We accept that the Australian Teachers Federation represents the largest body of teachers in primary and secondary government schools. 

 - Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson says that it is a pressure group. He is making reference to what was said earlier this afternoon by  Senator James  McClelland. 
This is so. I wanted to make it clear that that is what the honourable senator was doing. I suppose that after the experience of the past few weeks one could but agree with the comment. Notwithstanding that, we believe that the Australian Teachers Federation is representative of the teachers of Australia in its constitution. We believe that many of the teachers of Australia should take a more active interest in the affairs of the Australian Teachers Federation. But that is a second question. We believe that it is the body most representative of teachers and we would be content that it should be the body represented on the Schools Commission. I will outline the meaning of the word 'represented ' as I use it there in a moment. 
We also believe that there should be one person selected totally at the discretion of the Commonwealth Minister. That person should be involved in the research area of education. This would mean that recognition of the Commonwealth power area would give to the Commonwealth Minister a total discretion to appoint 3 people. The only limitation on the fourth person is that he must be involved in research. The Minister would also have the right to select 2 teachers from a panel of five submitted by the body which I am sure is generally accepted as being representative of the Australian Government primary and secondary school teachers- the Australian Teachers Federation. 
In using the word 'representative' what we have accepted- we have had many discussions about this and I am sure that other honourable senators have also had many discussions about this- is that bodies such as ACSSO- the Australian Council of State School Organisationsthe 3 New South Wales federations which have expressed their views to us on many occasions, the Victorian Federation of State School Mothers Clubs and various other organisations all of which I could refer to in detail are keen to have what they call representation of parents and teachers on the Australian Schools Commission. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales) (5.12)- I do not want to speak for very long because I feel a little conscious of the fact that I interrupted  Senator James  McClelland when he was speaking in the debate during the committee stage. I am intrigued at his argument that he put in relation to this clause. The Government 's recommendation is that its members on this Schools Commission could number anything from 6 to 13, as I read it, and in the case of the amendment which has been circulated by the Opposition the number is 15. So the margin between the Government 's proposal - 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThere are contingencies there that I suggest the Minister wants to read again very carefully. However, I am sure that he and I will not come to very much grief over the mathematics of the proposals. I want to come to the matter of substance concerning which I heard  Senator James  McClelland advance a point of view during the second reading debate and again today. I am sorry to say that he has repeated some of the things that he said during the second reading debate which, on reflection, I thought that he would not have wanted to say. However, as I say, he said them again. What he is suggesting really is that the people who come from special organisations represent pressure groups. He puts this in a context to suggest that there is impropriety in the fact that they are pressure groups and that there would be impropriety in relation to how such people would function as members of the Schools Commission. I find that staggering. The whole of our concept of committees, commissions and various other bodies, not only in political life but also outside it, is that people with special knowledge are brought in. They do not prejudice their soul when they do that. If they are sent because they are members of some organisation, they do not immediately say: 'All right, I will look at things in a narrow view'. That is a denial of their lifetime and a denial of everything that they have done. For instance, if educationalists are members of the Australian Teachers Federation, that does not mean that they will have, as members of the Schools Commission, a narrow, mean and selfish outlook. After all, they are educationalists. The fact that they are chosen from a panel- not necessarily a narrow panel, but a wide panel- automatically suggests that they are people who will give good service to the cause of education, not to the Teachers Federation. 
I refer now to the other amendment which deals with 5 persons from the Australian Council of State School Organisations. Will the people who are appointed by that organisation- in language which I think is a fair interpretation of what  Senator James  McClelland has put- be completely narrow and prejudiced in their approach to the problem of the education of all Australian children? 
Certain of us from different political organisations belonging to the same organisation are trying to achieve some good. We are not prejudiced. 
I find it a complete negation of everything that we stand for in a democracy to suggest that people cannot be put into a job to do something for the community at large when they have special knowledge and a lifetime of training and experience. It is said that such people should not be put onto this Commission because they are prejudiced and narrow in their views and they will not take the wide national outlook. I just do not understand it.. I think that the argument produced by  Senator James  McClelland is really - 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONLook, what is being suggested is a very negation of conciliation. Where somebody is appointed to a committee he is not appointed because he will represent a certain view. A person is placed on a committee from a panel to give a wide canvass of opinion - 
Because this is the major point of the whole of the debate which will take place I had anticipated that I would take half an hour in  2  parts to enable me to explain fully. I had designed what I was to say on that basis. I wish to go on and explain the second half of what I was going to say which is the basic reason which the Opposition wishes to move amendment No.  5.  In speaking earlier I had reached the stage where I was referring to the meaning to be given to the word 'representation' as used by us. It is a limited meaning, the same meaning as was given in a number of submissions from a variety of interested groups throughout the community, which is that persons should be drawn from a particular area, that there should be a guarantee that the persons can be drawn from that area but that they should not be answerable to the organisations of which they are members. There should be a guarantee that they are not on the Commission because they have received particular directions from their committee or organisation and that they are not answerable to that organisation on a reporting back basis. It is for that reason that we included the proposed clause  4b.  This amendment gives a guarantee sought by a wide variety of organisations in Australia that they shall be given representation. It is a guarantee that their areas will be represented or, to put it another way, that the people on the Commission shall be drawn from the areas set out in the amendment. This is as opposed to the total discretion of a Minister who may not be the present Minister for Education. There may be a reshuffle in the present Cabinet or there may be a change of government. There is no way in which we can tell who will be the Minister at any particular time. 
The fact that the present Minister has indicated that he will appoint a group of people is no argument to say that that type of people will always be appointed. Therefore no one who is interested in ensuring that his parent group, teacher group or whatever type of" group it may be will be represented on the Commission can draw comfort from any assurance given by  Mr 
Beazley. The position at the moment is not a permanent one. Accordingly we would see as desirable some guarantee written into the Bill that persons would be drawn from these areas and included on the panel. We would therefore see as desirable the inclusion of  4  persons recommended by the Australian Education Council who would represent the interests as seen by the State area of administrative power. These people may or may not be representatives from the State education departments. There may be people who in fact come from a variety of areas. The Australian Education Council would be required also to select  2  people from a panel of  5  names put forward by the Australian Council of State School Organisations. The Council should also, in the forum in which it has total discretion, appoint one person who is involved in the special education of handicapped children or children with special learning difficulties. Again, this is not something unusual; this is not something for which there is no precedent in education. 
We have also put forward the suggestion that one member should be appointed on the recommendation of the Education Executive of the Episcopal Conference of Australia. I pause at this point to say that in the Catholic system of education the Education Executive is the ultimate body concerned with the direction of Catholic education in Australia. We suggest also that one member should be appointed on the recommendation of the National Council of Independent Schools which is a body comprised of representatives of the non-government school area, including catholic order schools, Protestant schools, non-religious schools and independent modern schools or progressive schools. Almost all schools in this category are members of the National Council of Independent Schools. To ensure that there is representation of the parent group coming from the independent sector we have suggested that a member should be appointed to the Schools Commission on the recommendation of the Australian Parents' Council, which is a body open to both Catholic and non-Catholic independent school parent bodies. Although the Council is in fact comprised of a large crosssection of parents who have children attending Catholic and non-Catholic schools, it is made up primarily of Catholic parents because most of the children who attend non-government schools go to Catholic schools. In my home State of Tasmania, for instance, parents and friends groups of some of the non-Catholic independent schools are represented on the Australian Parents' Council. Therefore the Education Executive of the 
Episcopal Conference of Australia and the Australian Parents' Council are 2 bodies which are primarily representative, although not exclusively, of the Catholic area and another body is primarily representative of the non-Catholic independent schools although it does include Catholic order schools. 

 Senator James McClelland has suggested that it is monstrous for us to say that we should draw people in this way from a number of areas of education.  Senator James  McClelland would do well to remember that his own Minister has just set up the Australian Capital Territory Schools Authority on an interim basis apparently with the intention of making it a permanent body. It is interesting to note the structure of the A.C.T. Schools Authority because it includes people nominated as follows: two by parents' councils, three by the Australian Capital Territory teachers, one by the Canberra Pre-School Society, one by the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council and two by the Minister for Education. I remind the Senate that all of these people are nominated directly by those organisations. In other words, the structure accepted by  Mr Beazley  in relation to the Australian Capital Territory Schools Authority, which is an authority directly within his administrative area has been based on the same type of 'representation' which we propose for the Australian Schools Commission. If it is good enough for Canberra it is good enough for Australia. We fail to see why the Labor Party should attack our proposals upon some monstrous basis when its own Minister is using exactly the same scheme for the Australian Capital Territory. There are certain other aspects which can be referred to at a later stage. 
One point I want to make is that perhaps all of us have been neglectful for not seeing that the promise made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his policy speech has been carried out because provision has not been made in the structure of the Schools Commission to include a direct representative of the taxpayers. This was referred to in the Prime Minister's policy speech. However, the Opposition wishes to ensure that there is community involvement in the Commission. It wishes to ensure that there is a guarantee in the structure of the Commission that representatives of parent interest groups, teacher interest groups, areas of research in education, State administration interests and the area of special education for the handicapped will be included in the membership of the Commission. We believe that we should not have a Minister who upon a whim can appoint, for instance, a Commission of 12 teachers, 12 State administrators, or whatever else it may be. We believe it is desirable that the group represented by its Secretary,  Mrs Ryan,  which has been referred to on a number of occasions, should be represented on the Commission, together with the parents of children attending government schools in Australia, with the right to have their say in the development of education in Australia. This is what we propose. We want an assurance that this is what will happen in the future and that the decision will not simply be left to the whim of a Minister. 
Some effort has been made to compare the Schools Commission with the Australian Universities Commission. Some Government speakers and the Minister have laid great stress on the comparison between the Universities Commission and the Schools Commission. But how can one make such a comparison? How can one properly compare a commission which deals with between 10 and 20 universities- and this number has grown at various times- with a commission which deals with 10,000 schools? How can one compare schools which are administered by the States in State school systems with universities which have always been autonomous? Nevertheless, as I have said, great stress has been laid by  Mr Beazley, Mr Whitlam  and others on the great job that has been done by the Universities Commission. I simply point out that the net result has been that there is now a takeover or handover of university and tertiary administration to the Commonwealth Government. I ask the Minister whether the underlying intention of the Government is that there should be a takeover or handover of the administration of all schools in Australia to the Commonwealth. I have moved the amendment on behalf of the Opposition in the interests of Australian education. We do so in the hope that the Government will give proper consideration to this matter which does after all basically carry out the Government's own promise of representation to people who are drawn from the various areas of education. It accords with the general wishes of a wide variety of groups in Australia which are interested in education. In our view, it ensures that the 3 major administrative areas are recognised and provides some real prospect of their feeling involved and being prepared to contribute to and work with the Commission in the development of education in Australia. 
I wish to respond to the mention of another amendment which has been foreshadowed. As I understand it,  Senator McManus  has foreshadowed that if the amendment moved by me is defeated then he will move a further amendment. 
I simply indicate on behalf of the Opposition that we shall pursue our amendment. But if it is not accepted by the Senate, then as a second best, so far as the Liberal and Country Party Opposition parties are concerned, we will support the amendment to be moved by  Senator McManus,  whilst still asserting that the suggested structuring we have advanced is believed to be the best. I also mention that this type of community involvement is not something new on the part of Liberals as has been suggested by one or two Government speakers. In fact, the Minister for Education in New South Wales,  Mr Willis,  and the Minister for Education in Victoria,  Mr Thompson,  have taken active steps in relation to the development of community involvement in those States in relation to education. 

 Senator Milliner made an interpretation of one of the amendments which, perhaps, is academic if we are not likely to achieve the passage of our amendment. But he misread our amendment which provides in paragraph (b) that the Australian Education Council should select 6 members, of whom 2 shall be from the parent group and 1 shall be a person involved in the special education of handicapped children. I think that  Senator Milliner  just misread that.  Senator Mulvihill  misquoted what was said by Archbishop Young, perhaps because he did not have the full text of what was said with him. I would like to read the full context of what Archbishop Young said at that part of his remarks which  Senator Mulvihill  quoted: 
It was said in Launceston some 2 or 3 weeks ago on 27 October. The full context of what Archbishop Young said is as follows: 

I was present- 
I read with interest Hansard's report of your recent contribution to the debate and I thank you for the principles and proposals you voiced. 
Then he went on immediately to say: 
Now the exercise of analysis and amendment going forward is a tribute, not a niggardly, unappreciative reaction, to the importance, value and many excellencies of the Report and of the subsequent Cabinet decisions. 
What he was doing was commending the debate. I think that there is a significant difference between that report and the impression that was given in the newspaper from which no doubt  Senator Mulvihill  was quoting. Throughout the newspaper report, almost in its entirety, there was misquotation, quotation out of context or unattributed quotation. I do not blame  Senator Mulvihill.  I just wanted to have those remarks recorded in Hansard. Finally, I would like to refer to the fact that quite a bit of misunderstanding has arisen in the way that it arose- I use this as an example- with the Blackburn Technical School Mothers Club. They wrote a letter to me dated 2 December. It was received by me during the first few days of November so I take it it was meant to be dated 2 November. It is stated in the letter: 
For this to be effectively and practically achieved, it is imperative that representation on the Commission comes from parent teacher organisations, which have to deal with problems at classroom level- and therefore have first hand knowledge of them, and the effect they have on our children. 
We are deeply concerned that the Bill faces defeat or amendment in the Senate, and that our parent organisations, which could contribute a great deal in resourceful ideas to education administration, will be denied representation if this happens. 
This misunderstanding was generated throughout Australia. I use that as but one example. I received telegrams from teachers organisation and parent groups all over Australia which thought and were induced to think that our amendments were going to deny them representation. In fact, we guarantee them representation by our amendment. 
I shall not at this stage refer to the various other bodies for which representation has been called. But the Victorian Federation of State School Mothers' Clubs, the New South Wales Federation of Parent and Citizens Associations and the New South Wales Teachers' Federation all wanted involvement. They used the word representation' in many of their journals and letters earlier this year in expressing a desire for representation on these bodies. I wished to make those points in response to the remarks that had been made about the amendments I have moved. 
I move: 
After the definition of 'Australian Capital Territory', insert the following definition: 
Australian Education Council' means the Australian Minister for Education and every Minister for Education of the States of Australia meeting together. 
The purpose of this amendment is to give, in the definitions clause of the Bill, a clear meaning of the term 'Australian Education Council ' which is used in the new clause 4a which was inserted by the Committee yesterday. Everyone has always understood that the Australian Education Council means what the definition in the amendment states, but the amendment puts the matter beyond doubt. 
At the invitation of the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  I respond to the question he raised and indicate that the Opposition has stated repeatedly, through me and through other people, that we do not oppose the recommendations of the Karmel Committee in relation to the provision, whether it be through a Schools Commission or otherwise, or a committee, of vastly increased funds for education. Our criticism has been that in relation to some areas of education in fact there has not been an increase. In regard to the States Grants (Schools) Bill I indicate that the Opposition will not be doing anything to prevent the extra funds being made available to education next year. It may be that after further consideration of some of the provisions of that Bill there may be some suggestions for improvement but there will not be from the Opposition any attempt to reduce the funds for education. I take this opportunity to respond in that way to the Minister's invitation. . 
Amendment agreed to. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the Royal Australian Chemical Institute has reported that well over half of all new Ph.D's in Chemistry have gone overseas upon completion of their degrees. 
What percentage of Ph.D's in Chemistry return to Australia after working overseas. 
Is there a shortage of suitable employment for Ph.D's in Chemistry and other sciences in Australia; if so, what is the reason for this and are any steps being taken either to increase the employment opportunities or to decrease the number of persons studying for such degrees. 
I present the following petition from 1 7 Citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That they oppose the Australian Health Insurance Program and any National Health Scheme. 
That they wish to retain the right to choose their own medical care by selecting a general practitioner, specialist or any other medical classification of their own choice under the present conditions in private consulting rooms and also the right to choose an intermediate ward or private hospital of their own choice. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will take no measure to interfere with the existing health scheme. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation. Is it a fact that an air traffic controller has been stationed at Whitemark on Flinders Island for many years to ensure the safety of commercial, charter and private aircraft which use that airport? Is it a fact that the week before last he was withdrawn and not replaced? Is it a fact that last week a Friendship aircraft carrying a load of passengers and a Service aircraft nearly collided? Is it also a fact that radio contact between aircraft on the ground at Whitemark and the air traffic controller at Launceston airport is difficult, if not impossible? Is it a fact that pilots must now try to ensure that flight conditions are safe, without the aid of local weather reports and even without information as to local aircraft movements? In the interests of safety, will the Minister take steps to have his colleague the Minister for Civil Aviation immediately restore the air traffic controller to Whitemark? 
At the moment clause 4 reads: 
1 ) There shall be a Commission by the name of the Schools Commission. 
The Commission shall consist of: (a) a Chairman; and ( b) such number of other members, not being less than four nor more than eleven, as is from time to time prescribed. 
Consequential upon the amendment which was carried yesterday and which increases the total number of members of the Commission to 1 5- a Chairman and 14 other members- I now move: 
Leave out paragraph (b) of sub-clause (2), insert the following paragraph: 
fourteen other members selected or appointed as hereinafter provided. '. 
Again this amendment is a direct consequence of the carriage yesterday of the amendment moved by  Senator McManus.  I make this brief additional comment to the comments which were made yesterday in relation to the overall question. I take this opportunity, while the proceedings of the Committee are being broadcast, to refute again the completely untrue reporting of the Opposition's attitude to the Schools Commission Bill. I take this opportunity to state- and I hope that this time it will be taken up on a fair basis- that the Opposition does not wish, to use the words used by one newspaper in its headline today, to 'kill the Schools Commission'. The Opposition is anxious to ensure that the Schools Commission is realistically constructed and that it operates with the powers and functions which were suggested for it by the then Opposition, now the Government, prior to the election and for which the Government claims that it has a mandate to legislate, if it has a mandate at all, and which were promised so very clearly by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  when speaking on the general subject on 20 June 1 972 in an address to the Catholic Luncheon Club of Melbourne. Referring to the Commission, he said: 
The Commission will include representatives of the State departments, non-government school authorities, parent organisations and the teaching profession. 
That is a quotation from page 9 of the transcript of the Prime Minister's speech at the time. I add that quotation to the quotations which were given yesterday, and re-assert that what we have done is held the Government to the promise which it made to the people about the structure of the Schools Commission. The Government has attempted - 
Clause 4 contains the provisions which I have referred to already. It also contains this provision as drafted at the moment: 
The  Chairman  and each other full-time member shall be appointed for a term not exceeding seven years, and each pantime member shall be appointed for a term not exceeding three years. 
In relation to this matter there were some comments by the Karmel Committee in its report. The Committee referred to the desirability of a regular turnover of membership. In chapter 13.5 the Karmel Committee reported as follows: 
The Committee believes that the part-time membership of the Commission, its Committees and Regional Boards should be drawn from as wide a cross-section of the community as possible and should have regard to both age and sex. Provision should be made for a regular turnover of membership: a threeyear term of office, renewable for one further term might be appropriate and arrangements should be made to ensure staggered terms. 
The Opposition agrees with the Karmel Committee's recommendation in relation to the Schools Commission membership terms and believes it would be desirable to provide for at least the opportunity for an even greater degree of turnover than has been proposed by the Government. Accordingly I move: 
Leave out sub-clause (4), insert the following sub-clause: 
The  Chairman  and each other full-time member shall be appointed for a term not exceeding five years, and each part-time member shall be appointed for a term not exceeding three years. 
This will not prevent any member being reappointed because the next sub-clause, which it is not intended to be altered in any way, provides: 
A member is eligible for re-appointment. 
All we are doing is enabling a turnover both of the full-time members and of the part-time members- full-time members every 5 years, if thought desirable, and part-time members every 3 years. I realise that the extract I quoted from the Karmel Committee's report related to parttime members but we believe that the same principle applies to all members of the Commission, that is, that there should be an opportunity for a turnover at least every 5 years for full-time members and 3 years for part-time members. 
This is amendment No. 6 in the circulated list of amendments. In relation to clause 5 we propose an amendment which is again partially consequential upon the previous amendments which I have moved in this debate. Clause 5 deals with the position of full time members. It provides that the  Chairman  shall be a full time member of the Commission and also that the GovernorGeneral, which really means the Minister, may appoint any other member to be a full time member of the Commission. This clause also states: 
The number of full-time members, other than the  Chairman,  shall not at any time exceed three. 
I take this opportunity to mention that the Opposition would not have any objection if the Government believed, after consideration, that there should be more full time members than the three plus one; in other words, perhaps four plus the one who is the  Chairman  as was recommended by the Karmel Committee or perhaps even one more than that. We would not have any objection if the Minister indicated that in order to go on with the Commission the Government wanted to have another one or two full time members. That is something which would receive the approval or support of the Opposition, But we do not wish to push that proposal ourselves. We wish to ensure that of the full time members of the Commission one shall be drawn from the non-government school area giving this section a guarantee of one full time member. It is anticipated that the others will be drawn from the other areas making up the Commission. Our amendment proposes to add at the end of the paragraph which provides that the number of full time members other than the  Chairman  shall not at any time exceed three, the words: of whom at least one shall be a member selected and appointed pursuant to paragraph 4a (c). 
Sub-paragraph (c) deals with the 3 members of the Commission who are drawn from the area of non-government school education. The reason for this is simply to ensure that all sectors of the education administration areas are likely to be included on full time membership of the Schools Commission. This is a role which we see as being of vital importance to the whole of the development of education in Australia. We believe it is desirable that full time members should be able to draw on the experience, knowledge, ideas and developments which are taking place in the various administrative areas of education in Australia. I do not want to be taken as saying that any individual full time member must be an administrator. But we think it is desirable that he should have some liaison with the various areas of administration. For that reason I move: 
At end of sub-clause (2) add: of whom at least one shall be a member selected and appointed pursuant to paragraph 4a (c). 
In relation to clause 12 certain consequential amendments result from the increase of the size of the Commission from 12 members to 15 members. Clause 12 deals with the meetings of the Commission. It provides: 
1 ) The Commission shall hold such meetings as are necessary for the performance of its functions. 
) The Minister or the  Chairman  may at any time convene a meeting of the Commission. 
The  Chairman  shall preside at all meetings of the Commission at which he is present. 
If the  Chairman  is not present at a meeting, the members present shall appoint one of their number to preside at the meeting. 
It then goes on, in sub-clauses 5 and 6, 2 provisions with which we wish to concern ourselves. Sub-clause (5 ) provides: 
At a meeting of the Commission- 
If the membership of the Commission does not exceed seven- a quorum is constituted by not less than three members; or 
if the membership of the Commission exceeds seven but does not exceed nine- a quorum is constituted by not less than four members; or 
in any other case- a quorum is constituted by not less than five members. 
As the Commission will now comprise 15 members, these provisions become redundant. In a moment I shall formally move for the omission of sub-clause 5 relating to the variables depending on the size of the Commission. Sub-clause (6) provides: 
For the purposes of sub-section (5), the membership of the Commission shall be deemed not to exceed seven at any time if the number of members, in addition to the  Chairman,  prescribed for the purposes of sub-section 4(2) at that time does not exceed six. 
Again, this is a matter which is relevant if one is not sure how many members there will be on the 
Commission. As we now know how many members there will be- that is, 15- we wish to delete both these sub-clauses and to insert a subclause which will provide specifically for the quorum. I therefore move: 
Leave out sub-clauses (5) and (6), insert the following subclause: 
At a meeting of the Commission a quorum is constituted by not less than eight members. '. 
There being 1 5 members of the Commission, 8 members- just over half of the Commissionwill constitute a quorum. This is a reasonably normal proportion for most such bodies. 
-The first amendment which I propose to move to this clause will take a little longer to explain. The clause with which we are now concerned deals with the functions of the Commission. It is of some interest to note that the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  said, as reported at page 1636 of the House of Representatives Hansard: 
I draw the attention of honourable members to a number of the functions with which the Commission is charged because they indicate matters which are important in the field of education. 
I emphasise the words 'because they indicate matters which are important in the field of education '. That is a statement with which the Opposition certainly agrees. The functions of the Commission do indicate matters of considerable importance- very great importance- in the field of education. Accordingly, we wish to pay some attention to the exact drafting of the functions of the Commission. Clause 13 provides: 
1 ) The functions of the Commission are to inquire into, and to furnish information and advice to the Minister with respect to, the following matters: 
I pause there to remind honourable senators that the function of the Commission is not administrative. It has been stated by the Minister for Education in his second reading speech and by the Karmel Committee that the function of the Schools Commission is to be not administrative but advisory, of necessity involving what might be regarded as an investigatory aspect and apparently also involving the gathering of statistics. But, other than in those respects, its function is stated, and has been stated repeatedly, to be not administrative. The first function set out in the Bill reads as follows: 
The establishing of acceptable standards for buildings, equipment, teaching and other staff and other facilities at government and non-government primary and secondary schools in Australia, and means of attaining and maintaining those standards; 
In the Karmel Committee report, at pages 135 and 136, the question of consultation was dealt with. I quote the following from the Karmel Committee report because I think it sets out some pertinent comments: 
The Committee believes that widespread consultation will be vital to the successful work of the Commission, especially with education authorities and parent and teacher organisations. In addition to those persons and organisations with whom the Commission's field officers, Committees and Regional Boards will consult, the Commission itself will need to develop a close liaison with the other educational, social and cultural Commissions and agencies of the Commonwealth and State Governments and with those authorities concerned with community and individual welfare, including the appropriate Commonwealth and State bodies. 
One finds it hard to think of that in any restricted sense. It is quite obvious that in making its recommendations to the Government the Karmel Committee saw the need for consultation as being a very wide need indeed. We believe, therefore, as the Minister himself said- and recognising that the functions as set out in the Bill indicate matters which are important in the field of education and recognising the stress which was placed by the Karmel Committee on the importance of consultation- that the consultation should in fact be spelt out in much more detail than is the case in the draft Bill. Accordingly I move: 
Leave out paragraph (a) of sub-clause ( 1 ), insert the following paragraph: 
The definition, in consultation and co-operation with the State Departments of Education, the authorities in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory responsible for primary education or secondary education in either or both of those Territories and with authorities responsible for or connected with nongovernment schools in Australia, parent and teacher organisations and such other organisations and persons as it may deem appropriate, of desirable standards for buildings, equipment, teaching and other staff and other facilities at government and non-government primary and secondary schools in Australia, and the means and provision necessary for attaining and maintaining those standards; '. 
We believe that that as a wording of the first function of the Commission is more desirable, more comprehensive and more in accord with both the recommendations of the Karmel Committee and the desires of the Australian people and of the State governments- which are, as we have mentioned already, directly concerned with the administration of so much of the education in Australia- than is the provision drafted by the Government. I draw attention to several small aspects of change. The first is this: .The Government's Bill provides for the establishing of acceptable standards. One immediately asks: 'Acceptable to whom? Acceptable to the people in relation to whose administrative area the recommendation is being made?' Is it to be acceptable to the government schools, the State Education Departments, the non-government schools, and those who have done research in relation to it? Because of the use of the word 'acceptable' one does run across the problem of definition. So we would see it as being desirable to change that definition to 'desirable standards'. In other words, it is something which is wholly for the advisory body- the Schools Commission- to decide after consultation, lt will be able to say: 'We believe these are the desirable standards which should be achieved'. 
The second point to which I draw attention is the inclusion of the reference to the various education authorities, that is, the State Education Departments, the Commonwealth education authorities in the Territories, the responsible authorities in relation to non-government schools. Parent and teacher organisations are mentioned specifically in the amendment. The amendment provides for the widest possible consultation with these various authorities. The Commission will have consultation with such other organisations and persons as the Commission may deem appropriate. The Government's Bill has omitted reference to some things which most people concerned with education would feel were desirable to mention. The Government's Bill, as drafted, simply says: 
. standards for buildings, equipment, teaching and other staff and other facilities .... 
We would see it as desirable to word it as follows:  . . standards for buildings, equipment, teaching and other staff and other facilities at government and nongovernment primary and secondary schools in Australia, and the means and provision necessary for attaining and maintaining those standards; 
In its Bill the Government simply says:  . and means of attaining and maintaining those standards; 
That makes no reference to what provision would be made by the Government to maintain those standards. So this is not an amendment which is in any way trying to cut across or to restrict I could use any of the other terms which have been suggested- anything which the Government may have in.- mind. Rather it is to make more comprehensive what is clearly an important- perhaps the most important- single function of the Commission. I would just note that the Australian Education Council, that is, the meeting of the State Education Ministers with the Commonwealth Education Minister, issued a Press release' on 14 June 1973 which stated: 
We note and support the Federal Government's decision to consider further Chapter 13 of the report of the Committee. In this regard, the Council requests the Federal Government to afford the States the maximum flexibility in application of the funds to be made available within the programs there outlined, consistent with overall balance in these programs. 
So the Council made quite clear at that time how important it regarded that the Commonwealth should give the maximum of flexibility in the application of funds. We simply take that up to say that it is important that there should be the maximum of consultation and co-operation, because if the Commonwealth is to do a successful job in relation to the improvement of the standards of education in Australia obviously it will need consultation and co-operation with those who actually do the work, that is, the State or the non-government schools, in relation to all school children other than those in the Territories. 
As a further amendment to clause 13, 1 move: 
Leave out paragraph (b) of sub-clause ( 1 ), insert the following paragraph: 
The needs of primary and secondary school students in respect of buildings, equipment, teaching and other staff and other facilities and teaching aids and the respective priorities to be given to the satisfying of those various needs and to the improvement of the quality of education available for primary and secondary school students in Australia; 
Clause 13 relates to the functions of the Schools Commission. I remind the Committee that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt),  in his second reading speech, said that the functions of the Commission 'indicate matters which are important in the field of education'. I shall draw attention to the Government's proposals in this Bill and to the Karmel Committee's recommendations, and then I shall state our proposal. Clause 13(1) states: 
The functions of the Commission are to inquire into, and to furnish information and advice to the Minister with respect to, the following matters: 
The needs of such schools in respect of buildings, equipment, staff and other facilities, and the respective priorities to be given to the satisfying of those various needs. 
This paragraph is a marked example of the Government's failure to refer to the interests of students. The Government refers to the needs of schools, not the needs of students. It refers to a much overrated political slogan, in my submission, this question of needs. Of course we are all concerned with needs, but we are concerned with what is needed to make education of the greatest value, of the greatest availability and of the highest standard for students in Australia. We should not look to the needs of schools as such. I draw attention to chapter 1 3.3 of the Karmel Committee report, which states: 
The Committee suggests that the Schools Commission should have the following functions: 
to inform the Minister, either at his request or on its own initiative, on the needs of primary and secondary schools throughout the nation. 
I assume that the Karmel Committee, in the haste with which it prepared the report, omitted to give some thought to the interests of students as opposed to the interests of schools. The Government, perhaps equally in the haste with which it prepared the legislation, forgot to give consideration to the needs of students as opposed to the needs of schools. So the Opposition, having had the time that it has had to consider this matter, has come to the conclusion that it is certainly necessary to make specific reference to the needs of the students. Our amendment seeks to insert the following paragraph: 
The needs of primary and secondary school students in respect of buildings, equipment, teaching and other staff and other facilities and teaching aids and the respective priorities to be given to the satisfying of those various needs and to the improvement of the quality of education available for primary and secondary school students in Australia. 
Our suggestion is that the paragraph does not change the meaning of the Government's wishes but makes it far clearer that the paragraph extends to students and to the needs of students. I refute entirely the scurrilous allegation which has been made against the Opposition, not by the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  but by some sections of the Press and by some interested people, that the Opposition is in some way intending to kill the consideration of the needs of pupils in Australia. We are quite happy to improve the provision. We draw attention to the needs of primary and secondary school students in respect of 'buildings, equipment, teaching and other staff and other facilities and teaching aids', the last mentioned matter being omitted by the Government. Apparently it is not concerned about teaching aids or in its haste it overlooked them. We would have thought that teaching aids would be an important matter for the permanent Schools Commission to consider. We think it important that it also have regard to the quality of education so that not only will it have regard to the needs in physical form but also to the needs of students in relation to the quality of education. We therefore wish to write into the Bill the words requiring that the Commission's functions shall have regard to the improvement of the quality of education available for primary and secondary school students in Australia, perhaps a striking omission on the part of the Government. Apparently it did not think to include this matter. 1 would not for a moment think that the Government would not agree that it is the needs of students about which it is concerned and I cannot for a moment think that it is not interested in improving the quality of education in Australia. I simply submit to the Committee that our amendment is clearly designed to improve the Bill. In no way does it reduce the Commission's functions or inhibit the Government's actions or likely actions as a result of any advice. It is simply designed to help the interests of education in Australia. 
-A further amendment is to be moved to clause 13. Again, by way of illustration I refer to the fact that clause 13 deals with the functions of the Schools Commission and that it sets out: 13.(1) The functions of the Commission are to inquire into, and to furnish information and advice to the Minister with respect to, the following matters: 
We have dealt with 2 of them, we now come to the third which is: 
Matters in connection with the grant by Australia of financial assistance to the States for and in respect of schools and school systems and to schools in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, including matters relevant to the necessity for financial assistance to be so granted by Australia, the conditions upon which financial assistance should be so granted and the amount and allocation of any financial assistance so granted; 
As the Bill is presented to the Committee for consideration, the Government is adverting to matters in connection with the grant by the Commonwealth of financial assistance to the States in respect of schools and school systems both in the States and also the application of money to schools in the Territories. It also includes matters relevant to the necessity for financial assistance and the conditions upon which financial assistance should be so granted. 
What is made quite clear in the last mentioned part is that it is contemplated that they should always be subject to conditions- rather an unfortunate situation, I would have thought, if that is to be implied on every occasion. Then comes the reference to the amount and allocation of any such financial assistance. Again, in the spirit of endeavouring to make the Schools Commission legislation workable and in the endeavour by the Opposition to make the Schools Commission a body which can and will contribute to the development of education and the interests of the students of Australia, we suggest that this paragraph should be re-drawn. I move: 
Leave out paragraph (c) of sub-clause ( 1 ), insert the following paragraph: 
Matters in connection with the grant by Australia of financial assistance to the States for and in respect of primary and secondary government and non-government school students, schools and school systems in Australia including the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory and whilst recognising the desirability of maximum flexibility and diversity and the right and responsibility of the State and individual school authorities to determine the specific allocation of such financial assistance, the conditions, if any, upon which financial assistance should be granted and the total amount and total allocation of any financial assistance so granted; and . . .' 
In relation to this I would again draw upon the Karmel Committee report which in a great number of places relied on and gave great emphasis to the importance, as the Committee saw it, of the considerations of constitutional responsibility. This is what it said in chapter 13.2: 
The constitutional responsibility for the provision of public education rests primarily with the States, as at present does the major financial commitment. The Committee believes that the Commission's influence should be of a general kind and that it should not intervene in or interfere with the management of schools or school systems. 
The Committee went on to say: 
Moreover, the Committee's attachment to diversity is an argument against a centralist approach to educational matters. 
It went on to say later:  the Commission should concern itself more with providing incentives for the schools to move in one direction or another, than with delineating a particular model of precise development. 
It is my suggestion to the Committee that our amendment is far more in accord with the thoughts and concepts of the Karmel Committee than is the somewhat abbreviated version put forward by the Government in its Bill. We had regard to what was frequently referred to by the Karmel Committee, the need for flexibility and diversity. As I have mentioned, the rights and responsibilities of the States and of individual school authorities were referred to by the Karmel Committee. What, therefore, is contemplated is that the Schools Commission should be inquiring into and advising the Minister about the granting of financial assistance, which bears in mind these principles which were put forward so strongly by the Karmel Committee in its report and which I think are in accordance with what the Minister said on a number of occasions in his second reading speech. I would refer very briefly to two of them. He said: 
The objectives of ensuring sound basic standards in all schools . . . Our approach is to establish commissions of expert, advisers rather than a vast centralised administrative machine . . . Diversity and innovation in education at the school level are desirable. 
He said also: 
The States will retain responsibility for administering their own educational programs. 
He also made further elaborate remarks on the general concept which I think is far more clearly stated in our amendment than in the original draft. 
I move: 
Leave out paragraph (a) of sub-clause (3), insert the following paragraphs: 
Article 26 of the United Nations Chaner of Human Rights and in particular the prior right of parents to choose the kind of education that shall be given to their children; (aa) the obligation for governments to provide or assist in the provision and maintenance of educational opportunities for all children which are of the highest standard and which recognise the prior right of parents to choose the kind of education that shall be given to their children and where provided and maintained by or on behalf of a government ensure that these opportunities are open without fees or religious tests, to all children; (ab) the rights and powers pursuant to the Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act of the State Governments in relation to education; (ac) the need for research into education standards, quality, variety and opportunities in Australia; (ad) the importance of the improvement of the quality of education available to all students attending primary and secondary schools; '. 
By way of brief introduction so that people can be reminded of where we stand, I point out that we are dealing with clause 13 which provides that the functions of the Commission are to inquire into and to furnish information and advice to the Minister with respect to the matters which are set out in that clause. We have just given some consideration and made some amendments in relation to those functions. Subclause (3) of clause 13 reads: 
In the exercise of its functions, the Commission shall have regard to such matters as are relevant, including the need for improving primary and secondary educational facilities in Australia and of providing increased and equal opportunities for education in government and non-government schools in Australia, and, in particular, shall have regard to - 
For the purpose of explaining the words which I propose to move by way of amendment, I shall summarise the position. Having set out in this clause what the functions of the Commission are, the Bill goes on to say that in the exercise of those functions the Commission shall have regard in particular to certain things, and those things are set out in paragraphs (a) to (g) in sub-clause (3). We wish to suggest some improvements in relation to the matters to which the Commission shall have regard. The first of those proposes that the Commission shall have regard to Article 26 of the United Nations Charter of Human Rights and, in particular, the prior right of parents to choose the kind of education that shall be given to their children. I would seek from the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  an indication of whether this part of the amendment will be opposed in view of the fact that in the debate on this Bill in the House of Representatives on 11 October 1973- this appears on page 1987 of Hansard- one of the speakers for the Government said: 
Let me say at once that the Government gladly accepts the inclusion in this Bill of the extract from the Declaration of Human Rights from which the former Minister for Education and Science, the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has quoted, embodying, as it does very thoroughly, the philosophy and statement of faith on which the legislation before the House rests. 
He went on to say: 
Although it accepts that amendment from the Opposition, the Government rejects the remainder of the Opposition's amendments- 

 - Mr Mathews, the honourable member for Casey in another place. I can send over the Hansard copy to the Minister if he would like to see it. I inquire whether I need elaborate on this amendment. I think that the need for it is clear. It is taken straight from Article 26, paragraph 3 of the Declaration of Human Rights. In view of the further fact that the Attorney-General and Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  this afternoon introduced into the chamber a Bill for the total incorporation of the Declaration of Human Rights into the statute law of Australia, I cannot imagine for a moment that the Government has any intention to oppose this amendment. I will take it that unless the Minister says something to the contrary, I need not elaborate further- 
I will take the position as such notwithstanding the matters to which I have referred. 
I have not as yet seen  Senator Murphy's  Bill in detail. Therefore, I cannot comment. But I do know that it provides for the incorporation of the Declaration of Human Rights into Australian law. Further, I point out that the Declaration of Human Rights in this respect embodies a principle which I think has been accepted as an important principle, namely to avoid the possibility that there could develop in a country- one hopes that it should never be a fear in Australia- political indoctrination and the opportunity for the political education of children, where steps are taken which would mean that children were not obtaining the type of education which they or their parents might wish them to have. I was interested in a statement by the 3 federations in New South Wales which are a powerful group of people interested in education in Australia. The 3 federations consist of the New South Wales Federation of Infants School Clubs, the New South Wales Federation of Parents and Citizens Association and the New South Wales Teachers Federation. They made the following remarks in a joint policy statement: 
While recognising the democratic right of people to educate their children in any system we believe that non-government schools should not be established or maintained by the use of public funds. 
It is not the latter part, which I quote only for the sake of completeness, but the earlier part which is relevant to this amendment. So it is quite clear that those 3 powerful groups in New South Wales would all support the right to have included in the consideration of education in Australia that parents have a prior right to choose the kind of education that should be given to their children. We believe it is important to have as one of the matters to which the Commission should have regard the right available to every parent and every child in Australia not to be directed as to the form of education which they are to receive. This is a principle which we regard as fundamentally important. 
Although I have put together in my amendment No. 10 the proposed new paragraphs (a), (aa), (ab), (ac) and (ad) it seems to me that perhaps we may make better progress if a debate were to take place on these amendments one after another. I will pause at this stage and rise later to refer to the others. 
I propose to the Temporary Chairman that having referred to this question of the Declaration of Human Rights- the amendment to insert a new paragraph (a) into clause  13-1  should later deal with the other proposed new paragraphs one by one. 
No, I have not. I mentioned that when I made this suggestion to the Temporary Chairman. I am quite prepared to do as the Minister suggests. 
-I wish to respond to a matter raised by  Senator Mulvihill  not in order to continue the debate but in order to make an explanation. Perhaps  Senator Mulvihill  's implication was made through misunderstanding because he has not heard me say it enough so I will say it again. The Liberal Party of Australia for which I speak in relation to education does not assert that there is not a proper case for the provision of extra funds to overcome the disadvantages about which  Senator Mulvihill  was speaking. I simply want to make that quite clear to  Senator Mulvihill  and the Committee. Whilst there may be discussion and debate about across-the-board per capita grants or whatever else it may be there is no question so far as we are concerned that there is not a need in Australia for the provision of extra funds to identifiable areas of what the Australian Labor Party likes to call need as defined by its needs policy. I may use different terms but the concepts are similar. 
I move: 
In paragraph (a) of sub-clause (4), leave out 'conducting', insert 'responsible for or connected with'. 
This amendment again relates to the clause which refers to the functions of the Schools Commission. At present sub-clause (4) states: 
For the purpose of the performance of its functions, the Commission - 
shall consult with representatives of the States, with authorities in the Australian Capital Territory and the 
Northern Territory responsible for primary education or secondary education in either or both of those Territories and with persons, bodies and authorities conducting non-government schools in Australia, and may consult with such other persons, bodies and authorities as the Commission thinks necessary. 
We believe that the wording could be improved. We suggest that, because of the huge variety of non-government schools and because of the variety of administrative structures which conduct those schools, rather than use the term 'conducting' in relation to non-government schools, it would be better to use more general terminology to widen the opportunities of the Schools Commission rather than to keep them in the narrow form in which they are at the moment. Therefore we suggest that instead of the word 'conducting' the words 'responsible for or connected with' should be inserted before the words 'nongovernment schools'. The clause would then read: 
. the Commission- 
shall consult . . . 
That makes it mandatory-  . . with representatives of the States, with authorities in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory . . . and with persons, bodies and authorities responsible for or connected with non-government schools in Australia, and may consult with such other persons, bodies and authorities as the Commission thinks necessary. 
I give that brief outline. I imagine that if the Government continues to adopt the attitude that any alteration to the Bill is something to which it takes exception, the amendment will not need any further elaboration of our reasons. We think it is an improvement in the spirit of the Bill and in the spirit of making the Schools Commission work. 
It seems relevant, in view of the fact that the Ministe for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  referred to other legislation, that I should indicate the value of a Committee debate such as that which has taken place in this chamber in relation to this Bill. Perhaps the Act introduced by the previous Government and which was referred to by the Minister could have been improved by this sort of discussion. I find it curious, on looking at clause 16 of this Bill that the words contained in the amendment I just moved are the words used by the Government in the drafting of clause 16. That clause relates to State Advisory Boards and refers to having consultation with 'persons, authorities and associations responsible for, or connected with, primary or secondary education', and what have you. The matter simply bears repetition and I direct attention to that fact. I think this proves the value of Committee consideration in which we are able to have the interchange of thought which is involved in the preparation of these amendments. As I indicated to the Minister by way of interjection, this suggestion was rather strongly put by a number of the organisations whose representatives called to see me to discuss this Bill. The Opposition accepted their representations that it was far more appropriate to use the words used by the Government in drawing clause 16 when they were applied in relation to clause 13 (4) (a). 
-Clause 14 deals with the question of reports. Sub-clause ( 1 ) refers to the question of financial assistance to the States in respect of schools and school children. Sub-clause (2) clearly states that the Minister for Education shall cause each report in relation to matters connected with grants of financial assistance to be presented to the Parliament. Sub-clause (3) means that the Commission may give any report to the Minister that it thinks fit and that it must give to him any report which he requires. However there is no provision in relation to the general operation of the Commission for it to report to the Parliament. The only such provision is in relation to the very limited area of its advice on the granting of financial assistance. The responsibility of this type of statutory commission to report annually to the Parliament has been well debated in the past in this chamber. There is a clear requirement, observed by the Senate many times, that such commissions have a duty to report to the Parliament and that the Parliament should ensure that those reports are made. The amounts of money on which the Schools Commission will be giving advice and the amounts of money which will be involved in the administration of the Schools Commission will be substantial. Questions may arise in relation to the administration of the Commission about which it would be appropriate that it should give an annual report to the Parliament so that the Parliament knows what is happening overall. I draw attention to the recommendation of the Karmel Committee. I read from paragraph 13.3 (j), which states that the Commission is:  to report annually to the Minister on its operations, the progress of its programs, and the condition of the schools and to issue from time to time such other reports as the Minister or the Commission may judge desirable. 
The Committee recommended a full annual report to the Minister. Perhaps its inexperience of the ways of Parliament led it to fail to refer to the fact that the report also should be tabled in the Parliament. I do not imagine for a moment that the Government would attempt to limit the right of the Parliament to receive such reports. As to the form of the wording, we propose that sub-clauses (4) and (5) be added. I move: 
At end of clause add the following sub-clauses: 
The Commission shall, as soon as possible, but not later than six months after the expiration of each financial year, prepare and forward to the Minister a report on the operations of the Commission during that year for presentation to both Houses of Parliament. 
A member may add a protest or dissent to any report furnished to the Minister. ' 
In relation to proposed sub-clause (4) I add for the interest of the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland),  who in this chamber represents the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  that this sub-clause, as I recall, was taken from the Broadcasting and Television Act and is in the general form in which the Australian Broadcasting Commission is required to report. Proposed sub-clause (5) is regarded as most important by the Opposition because it is an expression of the right to dissent. We believe that where reports are being furnished to the Minister- some of which will be made public by the Minister and some of which will be required to be made public by their tabling in Parliamentany member who does not agree with the majority report should have the right to make known his views and his reasons for his dissenting from the majority view. The form of that clause is taken from standing order 3 1 1 of this chamber. I presume that it is in a form that is acceptable to this chamber. 
It might be appropriate if I very briefly point out that in clause 1 3 there is a provision that for the purpose of the performance of its functions the Commission may undertake and cause to be undertaken such research as it thinks necessary into matters that relate to the functions of the Commission'. The Commission could create a whole research body administering huge amounts of funds. There is no doubt at all that the cost of this Commission will run into many hundreds of thousands of dollars. There is no doubt at all that the amount of money with which it will be dealing in direct expenditure will be substantial. Also, there is no doubt that its total operations will be of great importance and that the way in which it is conducted should be known to the Parliament. 
It is totally irrelevant to try to compare the Commission directly with the Australian Universities Commission or the Australian Commission on Advanced Education. In this chamber earlier in this debate the Minister himself said that those bodies were different from this Commission in that they were smaller and there was a recognition in the Government of the much wider task which the Schools Commission will have in carrying out the functions given to it. I can only suggest that there is a difference between 10 to 20 universities in Australia- as there have been in the past few years- and 10,000 schools in Australia. The task is very different. The amounts of money involved in administration will be very different. In any event, whatever may have been the mistakes in the past in failing to have commissions report to this Parliament, I have heard the view expressed strongly many times by many honourable senators that reports should be made by such statutory bodies. I certainly put that view strongly. It was a view held by Senate Estimates committees in the past and subscribed to by the whole of the Senate when it endorsed a report of one of the Estimate committees of which I was  chairman.  Statutory corporations such as this are directly answerable to the Parliament. I take the matter a stage further and say that they should report accordingly. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 15 agreed to. 
Clause 16. 16. (1 ) For the purpose of assisting the Commission in the performance of its functions by providing, in each State and in the Australian Capital Territory and in the Northern Territory, means by which suggestions, proposals and information relating to those functions can be communicated to the Commission by, and the Commission can consult with, persons, authorities and associations responsible for, or connected with, primary or secondary education in the State or Territory, including teachers, students and parents of students, the Minister may, in relation to each State and each Territory, establish a Board or Boards to be known as the Schools Commission Advisory Board, or the Schools Commission Advisory Boards, for the State or Territory. 
A Board shall consist of such persons, whether members of the Commission or not, as the Minister appoints. 
A member of a Board shall be paid such fees and allowances as are prescribed, and shall hold office on such other terms and conditions as the Minister determines. 
A Board shall have such functions as are from time to time determined by the Minister. 
In this section, " Board " means a Schools Commission Advisory Board established under this section. 

 Senator RAE (Tasmania) (l011The amendment to be moved by the Opposition in respect to clause 16 is the simplest of all the 15 amendments which we have moved and shall be moving; that is, to leave out the clause. We regard the clause as unnecessary and burdensome. In fact, we regard the provisions of the clause as more likely than anything else to be destructive of the operation of the Schools Commission because what they provide for is the creation of a hierarchy which will duplicate the existing systems within the States and which will mean that it will be unlikely that there can be the feed-in direct to the Commission, and that it will be unlikely there will be the speed of operation which can otherwise exist because of the blockages which will be created. We would go further and say that the provisions for the State Advisory Boards may have been put in with some sinister view of having an even greater task than just assisting the Commission in the performance of its functions of advising the Government. But I leave that aside. The structure planned by the Government provides for State Advisory Boards, made up of an unspecified number of persons drawn from an unspecified number of areas, which shall have 'such functions as are from time to time determined by the Minister'. 
What an incredible proposition! I can remember the occasion when members of the Government when in Opposition would have almost torn down the roof of this chamber on seeing such incredibly wide discretions given to a Minister. If there was no other amendment which I wished to make to this clause I would certainly want to make that one. That is a matter which has caused great concern to some State Ministers for Education, a matter as to which I have had considerable representations made to me. But the general thing is that most would agree that it is undesirable that there should be such advisory boards acting as a block between the Commission itself and the people with whom it is concerned. We suggest that there should be an avoiding of this duplication of a hierarchal structure. What we should have is the enlarged Commission which we have proposed- a commission of 1 5 members, large enough to inform itself, as it is empowered to do, into subcommittees, to visit and to make first hand contact with the people with whom it is concerned to consult; and to obtain for itself first hand information so that it may through its own members- not through some feed-in system of a filter such as an advisory board- know what is going on in education in Australia and what are the needs. 
We believe that a most important aspect of the Commission is to have direct consultation. There are in the States already a number of bodies such as the States Priorities Committees which can do an excellent job and the preservation of which is provided for in the States Grants Bill which has been introduced into the House of Representatives and which will be dealt with in this chamber in due course. There are already existing within the States a very considerable number of bodies which can act as appropriate feed-in bodies to the Schools Commission. But if we are to have an hierarchal structure in which there is at State level State Advisory Boards, then coming to God himself- the Commission- and then to the perhaps almightier God- the Minister- we are going to slow down the process of development of education in Australia and the accuracy of input of information and make more likely an increase in the bureaucracy which most people would wish to avoid. Without elaborating further what I think are the clear views of the Opposition as to the undesirability of this, and with the proviso that should it prove necessary at a later date and should the Government be able to come to us and say, 'It has been shown that the Commission cannot work without some other structure', we would be interested to hear how and why. Perhaps one of the reports that we require the Commission to give could contain such information if is found that it cannot work. 
After a lot of discussion with State Ministers, State Directors of Education or their representatives and the representatives of various other people interested in education, it is our belief that this will be a definite and clear improvement in the workings of the Schools Commission, bearing in mind that the Commission is now increased in size to 15 members, thereby being large enough to have sub-committees to do the work which might otherwise have been done by the State Advisory Boards. I move. 
Leave out the clause. 
-Clause 17 deals with the question of committees of the Commission. For the reasons which I outlined in relation to the deletion of clause 16, we regard the question of committees, particularly committees of the Commission itself, as important. It is interesting to note that the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  in his second reading speech as reported at page 1636 of the House of Representatives Hansard, said that it was proposed that it should be possible: to appoint such committees of the Commission as are necessary from time to time to enable it to perform its stated functions. 
The words of the Minister himself were that it was proposed to appoint committees to enable the Commission to perform its stated functions. But when we look at the provision in the Bill, we find that, no doubt by error, it does not provide for the Minister to appoint committees for the purpose of carrying out the Commission's stated functions. Rather, it provides: 
The Minister may, at the request of the Commission, appoint a Committee to assist the Commission in relation to a matter specified in the request. 
No limitation is provided in clause 1 7 of the Bill as submitted by the Government which would accord with the object stated by the Minister for Education in his second reading speech. Accordingly, because we believe that it is important that there should be a clear relationship between the functions of the Commission and the function for which a committee is appointed, we propose that there be an amendment by which a number of words would be added at the end of clause 17( 1 ) which I have just read out. The sub-clause would then read as follows: 
The Minister may, at the request of the Commission, appoint a Committee to assist the Commission in relation to a matter specified in the request provided that such request shall be related to the matters referred to in section 13. 
In other words, we wish to see that the powers of the Minister are limited to the extent that he appoints committees which are related to the functions as defined in clause 13 of the Bill. I do not think that it is necessary to elaborate in great detail. It is a principle which is well known to all honourable senators that such powers as are given to Ministers by Bills such as this should be limited in regard to what the Minister may do in the exercise of the power. We wish to make it quite clear what he may do. The Minister for Education said in his second reading speech delivered in the House of Representatives that this was the intention of the Bill. We are simply making quite sure that the Bill carries out the intention of the Minister. I move: 
At the end of sub-clause ( 1 ) add: 'provided that such request shall be related to the matters referred to in section 1 3 '. 
-This Bill deals with senior secondary and tertiary, technical college, advanced college and university scholarships for students. The Opposition wholeheartedly supports the Bill which it regards as a continuation of the development of a policy which was an important aspect of the Liberal Party's approach to education over the years. The Bill proposes an unspecified number of scholarships with unspecified benefits which do include, however, fees and living allowances. Means testing is contemplated. It also provides for taking over existing scholarships; that is an important matter. It ought to be noted that the granting of scholarships is to be by authorised persons and that the old Commonwealth Scholarships Board is to be abolished. The Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  commented in his second reading speech on the work of the Scholarships Board. I endorse his remarks. Over the years it has provided a most valuable service to Australian education. 
There is a provision in the Bill in relation to the authorised persons but the criteria are not spelt out. I draw this matter to the attention of the Senate. It is relevant that so much of what is to be done is to be left to regulation. Almost all aspects of the Bill relate to things which will be done by regulation. For instance, a full time student is defined as a student included in a class of students that under the regulations is to be treated for the purposes of the Act as a class of students engaged in full time study. I raise that matter as but an example because throughout the definition clause of the Bill almost every definition is that which is to be given to it by regulation. Therefore, I think, it is all the more important that we should pay particular attention to the regulations. Some time ago I asked the Minister for the Media, representing the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  in this chamber, a question which he answered on 14 November. I briefly quote from his answer. The Minister for the Media said: 
Last week  Senator Rae  asked me to obtain some information for him about the introduction of regulations under the Students Assistance Act. I have now obtained that information, and with your concurrence,  Mr President,  I will provide it to the honourable senator. The Scholarships Act 1969 was not proclaimed because of the absence of regulations. A heavy legislative program during the period immediately following the passing of die Act prevented for some time the allocation of an experienced draftsman to the task. Drafting of the regulations was nearly completed when it became apparent that new legislation would be required and action was suspended. Much of the work already done, however, can be used as the basis for regulations under the new Act and it is anticipated that that Act will be proclaimed to commence by the end of January 1974. 
I hope that the Minister was not accurately informed when he said that it is hoped that the Act will be proclaimed and the regulations available- as I understand it- by the end of 1974. 1 ask him to take this opportunity to clarify the matter because I have had, and no doubt the Minister for Education and the Department of Education have received, a number of inquiries as to what is happening in relation to the regulations. 
Yes, January 1974. Did I say something else? 
I am sorry. I mean the end of January 1974. Of course, that is the commencement of the academic year. A number of students are still apparently somewhat confused as to what the regulations will be and how the students will be affected. At the moment a number of students are in receipt of university scholarships of various sorts and some private scholarships. Apparently these scholarships will disentitle them to assistance under the Student Assistance Bill which we are considering at the moment. I take this opportunity to pass on to the Minister for the Media and, I hope to the Minister for Education, the importance of making the regulations quite clear and final as soon as possible and preferably before the end of this year rather than waiting until the end of January 1974. I am authorised on behalf of the Australian Country Party to indicate that it, with the Liberal Party, most certainly supports the passage of the Student Assistance Bill. We see it as a continuation and development of a policy near and dear to our hearts. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer to a question asked by me on 8 November seeking consideration of means of assisting local government bodies with heavy and unusual fund raising needs for programs such as sewerage to obtain loans without entering into long term commitments at abnormally high interest rates. Is it a fact that the Tasmanian Government has turned down an offer of approximately $lm from the Commonwealth Government for sewerage works? Was this an offer of a grant or a loan? If it was a loan can the Minister indicate what was the interest rate? If interest rates fell, could it have been repaid and other, lower interest rate, loans obtained? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What number of extra teachers will be required in each State and Territory in Australia to implement the Karmel Committee's recommendations for in-service teacher training in each of the years 1974 and 1975. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) What steps has the Minister taken to make sure that nonsystemic non-government schools know the final date for the submission of appeals against the categories announced on 6 August 1973. 
When may schools expect to know the results of their appeals against categorisation and have the schools been told the anticipated date, as any changes in category will have a direct effect on 1974 fee schedules, for, in spite of the Minister's statement to the contrary, non-systemic schools have used per capita grants to reduce the level of fees. 
What steps has the Minister taken to ensure that all nonsystemic schools have been given a clear definition of what should be included in Question 10.24 under durable teaching equipment as this is a question that has been variously interpreted. 
Has it been left to each school to take the initiative in finding this out; if this is so, is it not an irresponsible policy since the school, on behalf of the Government, acts as the trustee for per capita grants to parents and their children. 
My question is directed to the Acting Minister for Transport. In view of the allegations now being made relating to the conduct of the search for survivors of the 'Blythe Star', will he reconsider the decision of the Minister on the request by the Tasmanian Solicitor-General for the addition of assessors expert in marine searches to assist the inquiry into the sinking of the 'Blythe Star' and the mammoth but unsuccessful search for survivors? 
Thank you,  Mr President.  I will continue to give the answer I had proposed to give before the intervention. I would like to make that clear. The answer I would give is that I shall refer the question to the Committee at its previously scheduled meeting which is to be held tomorrow. An answer will be considered by the Committee at that time.  Mr President,  I also would like to refer to you, for your authority to publish, certain correspondence which took place in relation to one part of the answer sought by  Senator O  'Byrne. 
In that letter the Minister said: 
It is also relevant that the Government has undertaken to continue during 1973 all grants to schools made under Commonwealth legislation which was operative when we came into office. 
Perhaps  Senator Wilkinson  would like to take the opportunity to explain what  Mr Grassby  meant in the advertisement. I am quite happy to send it across to him. But this promise was made again and again by the Labor Government. It induced the people of Australia on what, according to the opinion polls, is regarded by most people as the most important single issue, to vote by what has now turned out to be a falsehood. Are members of the Government not prepared to honour their promise? Are they not prepared for the sake of $5m to keep themselves honest? Are they prepared to say, by some sham of illogical reasoning, that they can get out of it because they moved a proposition in September of last year? That proposition was moved in a way which, if intended to be deceitful, certainly achieved its purpose. Nowhere in that proposition that they moved in the Houses of Parliament did they say that they would cut out any aid. In September 1972  Mr Beazley  said: 
This must mean that the poorer private schools will get more than they would under the Government 's flat rate legislation. 
There was no reference there to saying that the richer private schools will get less or nothing; he said that the poorer private schools will get more. He continued: 
If the sum total appropriated by the Government of Western Australia - 
He was talking about what would happen in Western Australia- equals that being granted by the Commonwealth but is allocated on the basis of need it means that the  poorer schools  will get most. 
The use of the expression 'will get most' must mean, as a matter of logic, that there are others getting less. That must mean that the richer schools will get less and the poorer schools will get more but everybody gets something. Those who deny that as a matter of syllogistic logic - 
I simply wish to indicate that as the request in relation to clause 15 has been carried the Opposition does not propose to do what was done in the House of Representatives where the Opposition opposed clause 66. 1 simply reiterate that in this House it was possible to move the request. That request was carried and we do not wish to make any comment in relation to clause 66. 
Consideration interrupted. 
As has been stated by the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  this matter was fully debated in this chamber very recently. It was debated upon a basis which, I think, made clear to most people who have available to them copies of the Hansard record of the debate or who heard the debate that the matter has been misrepresented by a number of people through the columns of the Press and through advertisements in the Press. This is unfortunate. A typical example of the type of misrepresentation appears in a letter which I have before me right now. It is a letter dated 5 November and is from a District Council of State Schools Mothers Club in Victoria. It reads: 
The parents of children attending Government Schools in the north-east of Victoria are deeply concerned at the Liberal Party's proposed amendments to the Australian Schools Commission Bill. We feel that these amendments will discriminate against representation by government school parents and teachers, who represent the majority of Australian school children. 
We therefore urge careful consideration of the implications of these amendments. 
As government school parents we ask your support for the Bill in its original form. 
That a letter such as that could be written by a responsible organisation is in fact an indictment of the Press of this country, because it is only with the most gross misrepresentation of the facts related to this matter that any council of mothers clubs could believe that the amendments moved by the Opposition would discriminate against representation by the parents and teachers of school children. The fact is, as is well known to every member of this chamber, that one of the major aspects of the amendments which were moved by the Opposition and carried by this chamber was to provide a guarantee which does not exist in the Bill proposed by the Government that teachers and parents of children attending government schools would be guaranteed a voice on the membership of the Schools Commission. It is against that which the Government is now seeking to have this chamber review the attitude to which it came by a clear majority when this matter was before the chamber last. The Government does not want there to be any guarantee that parents and teachers be represented or have people on the Schools Commission who can express the views of their organisations. 
The Government says: 'We are not prepared to give any such guarantee. We wish to retain the appointment of the membership of the Schools Commission solely at the discretion of the Commonwealth Minister for Education', totally disregarding the fact that within the schools of Australia there are 3 clear and separate administrative areas. One is related to the schools conducted by the Commonwealth; one is related to the schools conducted by the States, and they are the vast majority of the schools of Australia. Some 22 per cent of the school children attend schools in what may be regarded as the third general administrative area, which is the nongovernment school area. It is the view of the Opposition that if a Schools Commission is to work recognition must be given to the fact that there are 3 administrative areas and not just one. If the Commonwealth Government says: 'We are so almighty; we have all the wisdom; we have all the knowledge; we must have all the power', then it will insist upon a Bill which gives it absolute right, absolute control, over the Schools Commission. 
If ever I have heard a fatuous argument being put forward it is the argument which has been put up by some sections of interested groups in trying to maintain their position on the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission. The argument which is put forward for their individual interests, I might add, the interests of persons. It is that the Commission, as proposed by the Opposition, would not be workable because it would be representative of conflicting interests. Funnily enough, there is a clear suggestion in the Karmel Committee report, and there has been a clear case put throughout the whole of the debate that has taken place within the community in relation to the creation of a Schools Commission, that it is important that the members be drawn from a wide variety of areas, including government school parents and teachers. Yet this argument is put up that it would be conflicting. 
It is strange how, apparently when some of those associated with the Government wish to pull a few strings, organisations are prepared to change their views. Many organisations said plainly that they wanted representation but now apparently they have changed their minds and put their views in different terms. I simply remind the Government and the Senate that  Mr Beazley,  the Minister for Education, in a letter of which I have a copy and which I am quite happy to produce or table for anybody who wishes to inspect it- the letter is signed on the Minister's behalf by his Secretary and is in answer to the question: Would there be representatives of the independent  schools  on the Schools Commission- said: Yes, there would be'. But apparently he has changed his mind also. The Opposition does not see that it should change the view which was clearly expressed in this chamber some weeks ago. We find it regrettable that the Government is intransigent. We find it regrettable that the Government is not prepared to consider that there may be some other view than its own. We find it regrettable that the Government is not prepared to have regard to the interests of education but rather wishes to see its own view upheld at all costs and is prepared to toy with the interests of education. 

 -When Senator Poke and others have finished I will continue. 
-The matter with which we are concerned is the States Grants (Schools) Bill 1973 which is a Bill introduced by the Government to replace from the beginning of next year legislation which has been in force for some years in various forms providing funds from the Commonwealth Government or, as it is now called, the Australian Government to the States and to the independent schools systems. This Bill provides for general building grants, supplementary science laboratory building grants, grants for recurrent expenditure, grants for libraries, grants for disadvantaged schools, for special schools for handicapped children for teacher development and for special projects. There are then contained in the Bill a number of schedules which set out the amounts of money involved. This Bill has become a somewhat celebrated piece of proposed legislation since it was introduced into the House a short time ago. It is unfortunate that there has been a great misunderstanding and a great deal of misrepresentation as to what is involved. So I wish to state the background very briefly. 
Legislation providing for grants to schools and to students in Australia is not something novel. The novelty involved in this proposed legislation is, firstly, in the amount of the increase, which is substantial. It is an increase recommended by the Karmel Committee which was set up by the new Government shortly after its election last year. But the Government has not introduced something novel from the point of view of the Commonwealth providing funds to the States for the Government schools system or the nonGovernment schools system. The fact that that is so is important in relation to one matter which perhaps will be the most contentious matter in relation to this Bill, that is, the provision for recurrent per capita grants. At this stage, in referring to the legislative background, I make the point that for some years there has been provision for basic per capita grants to be made by the Commonwealth in respect of each child at a non-government school. The importance of that we will see in just a moment. 
The Bill is welcomed in most of its terms by the Opposition. In fact, the only term which is not welcomed is an omission rather than a provision. There is an omission which the Opposition will suggest should be rectified by an amendment which the Opposition will request to be made to clause 15 (5). Clause 15 of the Bill provides for recurrent grants in respect of non-government schools, that is, for recurrent expenditure of nonsystemic non-government schools. The provision is that grants shall be made as provided in the Schedule. But the Schedule will have the effect of dishonouring a solemn promise given by the Government on many occasions in the period leading up to the election last year and reaffirmed by it on a number of occasions since it became the Government in what I think would be regarded by anyone as the clearest terms. What it will do is reduce the amount of grant to 40 per cent of the children of Australia who attend nonsystemic schools which they receive towards their education from Federal Government sources. This is notwithstanding the fact that all taxpayers contribute and notwithstanding the fact that we have a government which is abolishing fees for tertiary education and letting anyone regardless of his income, wealth or need attend a university without any payment on his part so that he receives the same kind of sustenance, subsidy or payment from Commonwealth Government sources as any other person. 
This is so notwithstanding the fact that this Government has introduced that policy this year, that it has taken steps to abolish the means test, that it still pays child endowment- I might add, originally introduced by the present Oppositionupon a basis which means that every child in Australia, irrespective of the means of the parent, is entitled to child endowment. This is so notwithstanding an acceptance of the view throughout this community that in these respects there are certain rights which go with children, not with schools, not with their parents and not with some other relationship which may be attributable to them. We suggest that the child himself has a right to the basic grant from the public purse towards the child's education so that his parents may on his behalf or later in his development exercise a right to attend whatever school he chooses and to receive the form of education he wishes to receive or which his parents wish him to receive. 
We see as fundamental to the exercise of that right the continuation of the basic per capita grant with needs being provided for over and above that. I pause to make that point, because we have been misrepresented in this regard repeatedly by scurrilous advertisements placed by people who know better and who have therefore done it deliberately to mislead the public. Our position is clear. In relation to need we started a system while we were in government of providing on a basis of priorities. The new Government describes it as a basis of need. There is no real difference. It is a matter of identifying who has the prior right or the priority or the greatest need- whichever way we like to look at it- for extra assistance from the public purse. We totally support that. The Opposition will vote for the second reading of this Bill. I remind you,  Mr President,  and I remind honourable senators that in the House of Representatives the Opposition voted for the second reading of the Bill. We do not in any way oppose the positive provisions of this Bill which provide for what have become known as the Karmel funds to be made available to children throughout Australia. Any representation to the contrary is a scurrilous misrepresentation of the position of the Opposition in relation to this legislation. 
Promises were made. There were many of them. They were made by the Government prior to the last election- made by the present Government. For instance, in a speech at the Festival Hall on 2 May 1972  Mr E.  G. Whitlam stated: 
We want to remove the inequalities in Australian education, and these are the greatest in the non-government sector, and my Party believes that where the need is greatest, there, this assistance should be given. We will not repeal or reduce any educational benefit which is already being paid. We will confirm any which there are already . . . 
I repeat that speech was made on 2 May 1972. A tape recording of it has been played on a number of occasions over radio and, I think, on television. It is not disputed, as I understand it, by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  I remind honourable senators that what he said then was: 
We will not repeal or reduce any educational benefit which is already being paid. We will confirm any which there are already . . . 
I pause to remind the Government that at the time of that statement there was a provision for a basic per capita grant to be paid to every child at a non-systemic school in Australia. There is no argument about that. There can be no argument. The fact that subsequently legislation was introduced which improved the system under which that money was paid does not take away from the fact that on the date of that promise a basic per capita grant was available to every child who wished to attend a non-systemic school. 
On 11 May the then Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  announced the program which was subsequently enacted in the States Grants (Schools) Act 1972. The full details of the legislation were announced on 1 1 May but it went through in late September. In Melbourne on 20 June the present Prime Minister, then Leader of the Opposition stated: 
The ALP has never voted against any Bill proposing Commonwealth aid for education and it will support any forms of benefit already existing. 
That is a repetition of the promise. After the then Prime Minister announced what the system would be and after full details of the legislation which was enacted in 1972 were announced,  Mr Whitlam  said that the ALP would support any forms of benefit already existing. It has Deen suggested, and no doubt it may be suggested here today, that by some magical twist of logic the Australian Labor Party moved an amendment to the motion for the second reading in the House of Representatives and in the Senate of the States Grants (Schools) Bill of 1972. The Australian Labor Party spokesmen said that the Government would set up a Schools Commission. They said that that was what they thought should be done. That was never suggested on the basis that it was the attitude of the then Opposition, now the Government, that there would be no honouring of the promise made or that there would be no basic grant. When one looks through the speeches made on that occasion it is interesting to see, looking back, the delicacy with which the path was trod and that no statement was made or really implied. It seems that people were keeping their options open at that time. 
On 27 October 1972 at Haberfield in New South Wales  Mr Beazley,  the present Minister for Education, said something which was extremely significant. He said: 
Whispering campaigns to the contrary, no private school under Labor will in future get less than the per capita grant it gets now. 
That was on 27 October 1972. 
Yes,  Senator McManus.  The present Minister for Education,  Mr Beazley,  made the statement to refute whispering campaigns. It now appears that if those whispering campaigns existed they were very well founded. To refute such statements the Minister said: 
Whispering campaigns to the contrary, no private school under Labor will in future get less than the per capita grant it gets now. 
This Government by this Bill would dishonour that promise. The Government, by its action in the House of Representatives, has dishonoured that promise. It is disgraceful that a government is prepared blatantly and flagrantly to dishonour a promise made in those terms. I want to continue, however, because this has been said on so many occasions by people on the Labor side. There can be no doubt that the people of Australia voted last year upon the basis that if they voted for the Labor Party it was going to retain a basic per capita grant. Why, even  Mr Grassby,  the famous  Mr Grassby,  placed advertisements in his local Press. 
Because he makes such a show of everything and he made a show of this. He made a show of saying that he was going to be at certain places on 23 November and other places on 24 November, before the elections. In his election advertisement, which was headed 'Go Forward with Grassby', he had a message. It did not say that his Party would break all its promises. What it did say is this: 
Independent schools will die in 10 years unless there is a new deal. 
Al Grassby and his colleagues are pledged to that new deal which will immediately give another 1 S per cent on top of existing grants and aids. 
I will read it again,  Mr President.  Just before the election Al Grassby said that he and his colleagues were 'pledged to that new deal which will immediately give another IS per cent on top of existing grants and aids.' He was referring, as he said, to independent schools which would otherwise die in 10 years. What the Government is doing now is killing them off in 2 years. 

 - Senator Poyser asks: 'Which ones?' I wish to table in the Senate a document showing which schools because there has been such an amount of nonsense about this matter. With the leave of the Senate I will table the document. If leave is not given,  Mr President,  it is because the Labor Party is not prepared to see the full list of schools which are being killed off by it, not just category A schools, not just category B schools, not just category C schools and not just category D schools, because category E and category F schools as well are getting reduced aid under this Government which pretends that it is a Government which would honour its promises. It flagrantly breaches them. Let me continue with the promises. On 28 October, and unrefuted on 28 October, there was a report of the speech made by  Mr Beazley  at Haberfield. In the 'Daily Telegraph' he was reported as having said: 
No private school would get less under a Labor Government than the per capita grant it received now. 
I quoted earlier from the actual copy of his speech which is called 'Priorities in Education'. Then we find that in  Mr Whitlam  's policy speech of 13 November 1972 he said: 
A Federal Labor Government will: 
Continue all grants under Commonwealth legislation throughout 1973. 
And here is the important part: 
Allocate the increased grants for 1974 and subsequent years on the basis of recommendations prepared and published by the Schools Commission. 
Who would not have believed that he meant that there would be a continuation of all the grants that existed and that after that there would be increases on the basis recommended? No one could have taken it in any other way. I want to take the matter further. What I am about say no doubt will be of interest to the Tasmanians who are present in the chamber.  Mr Beazley  responded to a series of questions which had been asked in a letter written by the headmaster of one of the non-government schools in Tasmania. That headmaster asked a series of questions on behalf of a number of headmasters. The first question was: 
Is it the intention of the Federal Labor Party to continue Per Capita Aid to independent schools for 1974 and following years? 
The answer, in a letter dated 24 November 1972 and signed by  Mr Beazley  's secretary on his behalf, was one word: 'Yes.' There was no equivocation, no question of maybe and no question of We shall see'. The answer to the question of whether it was the intention of the Federal Labor Party to continue per capita aid to independent schools for 1 974 and following years was the one word answer, 'Yes'. The letter did not say: 'We will cut out some of them '. It did not say ' We will reduce some.' What it said was: 'Yes, we will continue per capita aid'. What did  Mr Whitlam  say on 13 December 1972? In a letter to  Mr J.  Dixon,  Chairman  of the National Council of Independent Schools, written by  Mr Whitlam  as Prime Minister after the election, he said: 
Per capita grants to non-government schools for the year 1973 will be paid at the rates already approved for 1973 under the provisions of that Act, - 
He was referring to the 1972 Act- 
Le. $62 per primary pupil and $104 per secondary pupil. Commencing in 1974 additional Commonwealth contributions - 
I repeat those words- additional Commonwealth contributions towards the running costs of non-government schools will be determined on the basis of relative need as assessed by the Interim Committee and subsequently by the Australian Schools Commission. 
That was said by the present Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  who had made the statements during the year, before the elections, and after the elections he repeated that there would be additional grants. In his policy speech he said that the grants would be additional to those which would be continued. I want to turn now to the terms of reference of the Karmel committee, which state: 
The grants recommended by the Interim Committee will be: 
for the period 1 January 1 974 to 3 1 December 1 975; 
b) in addition to existing Commonwealth commitments; 
I again draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that these grants were stated to be in addition to the existing Commonwealth commitments 
directed towards increased expenditure on schools and not in substitution for continuing efforts by the States and non-government school authorities. 
Then there is a reference to existing Commonwealth commitments. The Karmel Committee stated on page 6 of its report: 
The terms of reference specified that grants recommended by the Committee were to be in addition to existing Commonwealth commitment. 
On page 7 of its report the Committee referred to the fact that the Government subsequently told it that the basic level of support for nongovernment schools would not be predetermined after 1 973 and that the nature and level of support for recurrent expenditure during 1974 and 1975 would be recommended by the committee. This was where the Government clearly broke its promise. It broke it at the time of a letter dated 1 3 April,  Mr President;  a letter held secret by this Government and never published. The terms of reference were published but the Government refused to make known this letter although it claimed to be engaged in open government. It changed the terms of reference of the Karmel Committee by means of a letter. It was done in an underhand way, privately, in a letter to Professor Karmel which was not disclosed by the Minister and had to be forced out of him in the 
House of Representatives by a motion calling for him to table it. That is disgraceful conduct. 
No wonder that they are so ashamed of themselves. When one thinks of the sequence of events, it is one of the most shameful parts of Australia's political history. It is nearly as obnoxious as the monstrous fraud which the Government has committed in claiming to have increased expenditure on education by 92 per cent. When one takes out the funds which have been shuffled away from the States, when one accepts that one-third of the increased expenditure in the Budget is simply an amount which previously was paid by the States and which will now be paid by the Commonwealth- that amount is taken away from the money which otherwise would be paid to the States and does not represent one cent extra for education in Australiaand when one realises that two-thirds of the remainder relates to amounts which were approved by the previous Government and does not represent one cent of extra funds provided by this Government, one comes down to a very small amount, nothing like the 92 per cent claimed by this Government in its mammoth misrepresentations on education. The greatest confidence trick and the greatest political hoax in the history of Australia is in relation to education and has been perpetrated by this Government this year. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard the letter of 13 April 1973 which is addressed to Professor Karmel and which is signed Kim E. Beazley, who is the Minister for Education. 
-To clause 15 of the Bill which deals with recurrent grants to the non-systemic schools in Australia there is, as was indicated at the second reading stage, an amendment which the Opposition in this chamber would like to see carried. However, it is an amendment which we cannot move as such in this chamber and accordingly it is necessary for us to move a request. That is a procedural matter according to the Standing Orders. The option available to us in this chamber to seek a variation which would increase- and I take the opportunity to indicate the amount- by $5m the charge on the revenue, the expenditure from the public purse, is to make a request to the House of Representatives where it is necessary for a Minister to move the amendment if the Government so decides. Accordingly the position is that whereas the Opposition in the House of Representatives could not move an amendment of this nature, we can make a request, and we do make a request. The request which we make is that the House of Representatives should delete sub-clause (5) of clause 15 of the Bill and insert a new sub-clause. That sub-clause is substantially the same as the existing one except for the provision that as well as the grants to non-systemic schools which are provided for in the Bill, according to the tables which are set out in the schedules, there will be the following which I quote from paragraph (c) of sub-clause 5 of clause 15: 
such further amounts as will ensure that, notwithstanding the foregoing or any other provisions of this Act- 
a sum of $62 in respect of every pupil receiving primary education at a non-government primary school on the date in that year that is the schools census date for that State for that year; and 
a sum of $104 in respect of every pupil receiving secondary education at a non-government secondary school on the date in that year that is the schools census date for that State for that year, is payable to the school authority ofthe school. 
To change that around into simple words, the situation is that the request which we are making to the House of Representatives is that in addition to the specific grants which are set out in the Bill, there will be a basic grant available to every pupil. The basic grant will be $62 in respect of primary pupils and $104 in respect of secondary pupils. Those are the amounts which apply throughout Australia at this time. They were provided for last year. They existed at the time the Government came into office. They are the amounts payable this year. I pause to point out that under the 1972 Bill there would have been an automatic escalation next year because the grant was based upon 20 per cent of the average cost of educating a pupil at a government school. The 20 per cent average means that the amount would have gone up next year to a stage which is slightly higher than the amount provided under category F. 
But we see it as a matter of the Government's making a promise. Notwithstanding anything which  Senator Douglas  McClelland may have said the nature of the promise is quite clear. We go no further than asking that the Government honour its promise. We do not go to the stage of asking for and we do not expect the Government to provide the escalated amounts. Justice requires that that should be done, but we are not saying that we can take the role of being able to provide full justice to students. But what we, as a Senate, can do is to say that certainly if the people of Australia were made a solemn promise before the last election they are entitled to have this chamber keep the Government honest. The people of Austrafia are entitled to the basic minimum grant which was promised. 
To enable people to understand what I am talking about I refer to what  Mr Beazley  said in his paper called 'Priorities and Education'. This was a statement he made many times but the occasion which I identify was at Haberfield on 27 October, long after this much vaunted speech in the House of Representatives in which he carefully obfuscated the question and made no reference at all to cutting out or reducing any grants. All he talked about in that speech was that the poorer schools would get more, a principle which we are supporting. But what he did not do and what he was very careful not to do was to give the slightest indication in the House of Representatives in September last year that there would be any reduction in grants. That would have been in direct conflict with what he and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  had been saying throughout the earlier part of the year. What  Mr Beazley  repeated again on 27 October was: 
Whispering campaigns to the contrary, no private school under Labor will in future get less than the per capita grant it gets now. 
Now' was 27 October 1972. Let us analyse that promise for a moment. 'Whispering campaigns to the contrary' means that  Mr Beazley  is denying rumours which he alleges are circulating that Labor will not honour its promise, that it does not intend to keep per capita grants.  Mr Beazley  is saying that that is not true. 'No private schools ' means schools in categories A to H, systemic schools. No private schools under a Labor government will in future- not next year but during the term of office of a Labor Governmentwill get less than the per capita grant which it was getting then. 
Let me repeat it to  Senator Wilkinson.  I am quite happy to spend as long as the honourable senator likes to explain the promise made by the Labor Minister for Education. He stated: 
Whispering campaigns to the contrary, no private school under Labor will in future get less than the per capita grant it gets now. 
He did not say 1 973 or 1 974. He did not limit the time in any way. He meant in the future, extending as far as it was possible to see a Labor Government extending, which in my horizon is about another 2 months. 
Let us see what else was said. In the policy speech to which  Senator James  McClelland challenged me to refer the promise is: 
A Federal Labor Government will: 
Continue all grants under Commonwealth legislation throughout 1973; 
Allocate the increased 
I emphasise the word 'increased '- grants for 1974 and subsequent years on the basis of recommendations . . . 
There is no suggestion that the Government would cut out any grant. There was no suggestion that the promises made so many times by  Mr Whitlam, Mr Beazley, Mr Grassby, Mr Crean  and various others would be withdrawn or would not be honoured. There was no suggestion to that effect. 
Many times during this debate these promises have been referred to. But let me to refer to one more promise in case there is any doubt that just before the election the present Government had a change of heart. I think this is perhaps the most important one. This is a letter which was written just before the election. It confirms what  Mr Beazley  said personally in the presence of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Barnard)  when he visited Tasmania at the invitation of the  Deputy  Prime Minister who is as equally culpable in regard to these broken promises.  Mr Barnard  was present at a meeting of headmasters in Launceston. At their request he brought the future Minister for Education,  Mr Beazley,  to Tasmania. The promises were then made orally. They were made in writing in terms to which I shall refer. They were also made to headmasters orally. This is an answer to a question which was written to  Mr Beazley  through  Mr Barnard.  The question was handed to  Mr Barnard  to give to  Mr Beazley. Mr Beazley  replied in writing. The question states: 
Is it the intention of the Federal Labor Party to continue per capita aid to Independent Schools for 1974 and the following years? 
The answer is: 
Yes. 
There is no question that it was not intended to be made in the following years or that it was to be reduced or there was to be nothing at all. It is a plain question: 
Is it the intention of the Federal Labor Party to continue per capita aid to Independent Schools for 1974 and the following years? 
The answer, without qualification, is yes. 
How can this Government now claim that the promises were not made? How can it conceivably claim that? The Prime Minister made the promises repeatedly last year and in his policy speech. The Minister for Education made them repeatedly throughout the year and they are documented. There are tape recordings. Every conceivable sort of evidence is available to prove this. There are letters signed on  Mr Beazley  's behalf. The  Deputy  Prime Minister and the Treasurer were privy to them.  Mr Crean  made the promises. If he denies that I will give him chapter and verse of his promises. Of this present Government the Prime Minister, the  Deputy  Prime Minister, the Treasurer and the Minister of Education have repeatedly made the promises throughout the year. Does this Government now turn round and say that they were not made? Do honourable senators opposite deny those men? Do they deny those leaders? I know that they are sniping at each other all the time. But do they deny them to that extent? But let me go on. We have even the colourful  Mr Grassby  putting advertisements in the Press on 24 and 25 November, or whenever it was about that time, that this sort of aid would be available on an increased basis under a Labor Government. What has it done? It has dishonoured the promise, dishonoured the advertisements and dishonoured the statements made by the Leaders and by  Mr Grassby,  who is at least a Minister. 
-These Bills are being taken together. The Opposition does not oppose any of them and in its usual cooperative way in relation to matters involving education wishes to see the greatest expedition possible in the achievement of educational objectives. However, we remind the Senate that many of these things were put in train by us while in Government. They have been a little slow coming to fruition, perhaps, because of the Government's over-concentration on some other aspects of education. But they are largely machinery matters. For instance, it is proposed to change the name, for some unknown reason, of the Australian Commission on Advanced Education. But the Opposition says that if that is what the Government wants then by all means let it change the name by deleting the word 'Australian' from the Australian Commission on Advanced Education. Other provisions include the appointment of a deputy chairman. The work of the Commission on Advanced Education has increased. If the Government believes it is necessary that a deputy chairman should be appointed for a term not exceeding 7 years and that he should be able to undertake a full time role, the Opposition sees no reason why we should not support that provision. As far as the States Grants (Universities) Bill (No. 3) is concerned, we were told in the second reading speech that it follows the assumption by the Government of full financial responsibility for tertiary education from January 1974, and tuition fees at universities, colleges of advanced education, teachers colleges and technical colleges will become the full responsibility of the Commonwealth Government. 
Here we have another example of this quite incredible attitude on the part of the Government. It can be explained only on the basis that it is a result of what is known in common parlance as a hangup. We have, as  Senator McManus  referred to last night, a situation where the Government is prepared to abolish fees at tertiary institutions so that anyone, irrespective of income, may attend them without the payment of fees. But at the same time this Government for the sake of about $5m per annum or, if we take the figure of $8m over 2 years which was mentioned last night by  Senator Douglas  McClelland, about $4m per annum, could apply the principle of an entitlement of a basic grant to all school children. But apparently school children come into some special category which is to be singled out for a different principle to be applied to them by this Government from that which is applied by the same Government to tertiary education. The logic of that would defy even the most expert logician. We find that the Government is prepared to assume responsibility for the full payment of fees in relation to universities, colleges of advanced education, teachers colleges and technical colleges. One can only ask: Why does the Government wish to exclude 40 per cent of the children attending non-systemic schools in Australia from receiving the money promised in respect of their education? I might comment that it is interesting when considering this extraordinary attitude on the part of the Government to note that as late as 8 February of this year the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  who introduced these Bills, said this in a letter to the Secretary of the Parents and Friends Federation of Victoria: 
I am confident that no non-government school will suffer as a result of the Government's initiatives and that many will benefit. 
That was said by  Mr Kim  E. Beazley, Minister for Education, in a letter dated 8 February 1973- long after the election and long after the promises that were made last year. 
He was still reasserting the view which he had asserted so often last year; that in effect per capita grants would be continued. I repeat that he said: 
I am confident that no non-government school will suffer as a result of the Government's initiatives and that many will benefit. 
Many will benefit and none will suffer. 

 - Senator Devitt has raised an interesting point and I think I should spend a moment m clarifying it. It seems that  Senator Devitt  is very keen on giving consideration to the number of swimming pools a school has but funnily enough the Karmel Committe, which worked out the categories, paid no regard whatever to that matter. It paid regard only to the pupil-teacher ratio and the other recurrent expenses. It disregarded entirely whether a school does not have a swimming pool or whether it has 53 swimming pools. The fact is that many of the poor schools were penalised thereby. If they had used their resources to increase the number of teachers rather than building swimming pools they would likely be in a very high category, category A or category B. This is where the Labor Party, the Government, becomes so completely irrational on this subject. Although it keeps referring to things like the value of school land, the value of school buildings and the value of equipment, which may include swimming pools, the Karmel Committee paid no attention to that aspect. In fact the schools that the Government is penalising often are the ones that do not have any of those advantages. 
These Bills provide for the introduction of a number of programs that were put in motion by the former Government. They relate to such things as the extension of management education courses at the University of New South Wales. I understand that that was started by the previous Government, the Liberal-Country Party Government. We are glad to see this being introduced. We believe that there is a need for that type of course to be more readily available. We believe that the building of a National School of Management Education in Australia will help develop a greater degree of sophistication and finesse in management in Australia. Perhaps the Government may send some of its members to it and the country may gain an advantage from that as well. There are to be other programs. I refer to the increased amount of money for social worker training which we agree is desirable. We supported the prior legislation in regard to this matter and we support this legislation. 
The other Bills provide for some variations in the amount of money and the destinations of money being made available under programs basically developed and approved by us in government and we support them. Although there has been this great hoo-ha by the Government in relation to education and its Budget, it is important to remember that of the $404m to be spent on education, which they claim is an increase of 92 per cent, $ 144.6m was a straight transfer of what had been States' expenditure. That sum is to become Commonwealth expenditure and does not represent a single cent of extra expenditure on education. Of the remainder of the money, the largest percentage is in respect of programs recommended by the Australian Universities Commission and the Advanced Education Commission, both of which were approved by the previous Government before this Government came to power. It is a political hoax of massive proportions to claim that this Government, as a result of its initiatives, has increased expenditure on education in its Budget by $404m or by 92 per cent. That claim can be refuted by the facts. It is a claim that is untrue. It is a claim that has been made to mislead the public of Australia in the same way as the Government has attempted to mislead the public in relation to a number of other aspects of education development. However, this is not the occasion on which . to further elaborate on those aspects. 
We support these Bills but we simply deplore the duplicity and deceit engaged in in relation to the education debate in this country. We applaud! the provision of extra funds. We applaud the fact! that the Government has undertaken to continue  a number of the programs which we started, ' although unfortunately it has seldom given credit for that fact. This Government has taken a number of initiatives which we also applaud but those initiatives are far less significant than all the hoo-ha and the attempted snowing, to use a phrase, of the community would have people believe. If there is to be a double dissolution on this issue and an election fought on it the people of Australia will have the opportunity of hearing the truth. We are prepared and anxious to face the people on this issue. Our record will stand; the Government's will not. The Government's record is one of broken promises, misrepresentation, misleading and deceit. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)-  Order! Before I call  Senator Drake-Brockman  I want to say that, the Senate having agreed to have a joint discussion on these 5 education measures, it took me some time to decide what was relevant in debate and what was not. I believe that  Senator Rae  got away from the purposes of the Bills before the Senate. I think honourable senators would agree that we do not want another debate on education. If I am occupying the Chair at the time I certainly will have to permit the Minister to reply to his remarks but I ask honourable senators to keep to the Bills that are before the Senate and not to indulge in a repeat of the education debate. 
asked the Minister representing  the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the cost of the abortive transport, within the past ten weeks, of a substantial quantity of RAAF bombs from Sydney to Towns ville and back to Sydney. 
Who was responsible for the fiasco which required three days of dithering for a decision to be made as to whether the bombs were to be sent to Darwin or back to Sydney. 
Who authorised and directed the transport of the bombs to Townsville, and why was the direction countermanded after the trucks arrived in Townsville. 
Thank you,  Mr President.  The situation is that the Committee has met and has discussed the submission of a statement. The statement is in the course of preparation and will be given to the Senate. It will include an answer to the question asked by  Senator O  'Byrne. 
I move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
I mention that there has been some discussion with the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  about this Bill. Other health matters are to be debated later today. I understand that the Minister will move that the resumption of the debate be made an order of the day for a later hour of the day. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The course which I suggest should be followed by the Committee is that the motion proposed by  Senator Douglas  McClelland be moved, that is, that the Committee does not pursue the amendments already made. Once that is out of the way, the vote on that can be taken, and the individual amendments which  Senator Douglas  McClelland now proposes can be dealt with. 
-No. I suggest that we take the motion, which is "That the senate does not insist on the amendments of the Senate to which the House of Representatives has insisted on disagreeing'. 
Those amendments which have already been through this chamber. That motion is to be taken first, then we shall deal with the rest of  Senator Douglas  McClelland 's motion for the amendments outlined by him. 
In the sequence of events, and if the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  agrees, this would be an appropriate time for me to raise the amendment which deletes the word 'primary'. I referred to this earlier when we were debating this matter. I seek the Minister's concurrence in my moving the amendment at this stage rather than after his further amendments have been dealt with. I move: 
That in clause 13 (3) (a)leaveout'primary'. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. Is the Minister aware that the regulations in relation to the use of 2-way radios on small craft will require that as from the end of this year only single sideband radios may be installed but that at the moment there is a shortage of those radios, the cost of them being 4 times as great as the cost of the double sideband radios? Is the Minister aware that the almost inevitable consequence of the enforcement of the present proposition will be a reduction in the usage of radios in small craft with a consequent reduction in the possible safety provided by the use of these radios? Will the Government reconsider the decision? 
-The Liberal Party in Opposition will not support the motion moved by the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  that this chamber does not pursue the amendments which the Senate has made. As is well known, there has been a very full debate in relation to this matter. The reasons why our amendments should be made in the interests of the development of a successful Schools Commission have been put, and I do not think it is of advantage for us to repeat them in detail. However, I do make these points: We see the Schools Commission as having a function in relation to the education of every child in Australia. We see it as having a function in relation to children attending single schools or who are within systems which are conducted by the Commonwealth Government, by State governments and by independent authorities. 
We regard it as of fundamental importance that there be an involvement in the Schools Commission by the people who are concerned with those systems. We see it as of vital importance that there is an involvement in the Commission at the community level of parents, teachers, and people in some of the special areas of education. We wish to see that it is not left to the total discretion of the Minister, whoever he may be from time to time, to say: 'I shall appoint so and so to the Commission', without regard to these basic principles which we believe will make for a more successful Schools Commission and a better development of education in Australia. 
Having said that, I want to refer also to one or two of the specific points. We wish to see that the Schools Commission, which we believe has been unfortunately titled, has regard primarily to the interests of students, of pupils, and not of schools as institutions. The whole tendency in this Government's approach to the question of education has been to look at it from the point of view of the creation of and the interests of the institution which children attend. We believe that it is the children in education who are important, and not the institutions. We believe that it is important that adequate funds should be made available in the interests of those students. 
To categorise education on the basis of the interests of the school as an institution rather than the pupil gives, I think, an interesting indication of the basic approach and attitude of the Government. It is not interested in giving each child in Australia an opportunity as an individual member of a free society to be able to obtain an education as an individual. What the Government wants to build up, as it has done in so many other areas of government, is a system in which you can have peas out of a pod. This is what the argument has been all about. This is why the Liberal Party stands by the principle that there should be within the Schools Commission and other areas of education a basic attention to the rights of the individual member of the Australian society, that the whole of the legislation should be drawn with that in mind, and that the interests of individuals rather than institutions and political parties should be looked to. 
We find at various times great emphasis both in these amendments and in other places on the Government's needs policy. We have had it suggested that the Opposition has not been mindful of the Government's needs policy. The Government has never even defined its needs policy. How could we be mindful of it? This expression is used in a sloppy way by people who do not think about what is involved in real needs in education but who like a jazzy slogan which is a good shorthand way of saying something that might sound good to people who do not think about it. What are the needs of education in Australia? The Karmel Committee drew attention to the fact that it had no definition of the Government's needs policy, but it used need as one of the criteria for the purpose of the 2-year recommendations which it made, and this criterion obviously should not be used in the long term. 
We find that the Government is not prepared even to have regard to amendments which were made in this chamber to the Schools Commission Bill, such as the one requiring a report. How extraordinary that the Government when in Opposition used this chamber to insist and to assert that the Parliament should have the right- I totally agreed with it- to receive reports and to have information from the statutory bodies which it creates. We are being asked to vote for legislation which creates a Schools Commission, which will be one of the most important statutory bodies to exist in this country, but the legislation provides that the Commission should not be obliged to report to the Parliament. The Government refused even to accept our amendment No. 13 which stated: 
The Commission shall, as soon as possible, but not later than six months after the expiration of each financial year, prepare and forward to the Minister a report on the operations of the Commission during that year for presentation to both Houses ofParliament. 
The Government will not even accept that. Why? Does it have something to hide? Is it intending that this Schools Commission will operate in a way which would perhaps make it unfortunate if there were a requirement for annual reports of that nature? Why should it not report? No good reason was given during the previous debate. No good reason has been given to this stage. These are the sorts of things that one would have expected from a government which loudly proclaimed over the years when it was in opposition that it was interested in having the parliamentary institution informed and in having reasonable opportunity for the Parliament to know what statutory commissions it creates are doing. We would have thought that the Government would have seriously considered that amendment. But the indication is that it was not interested. It was not interested in a large number of other amendments which we moved. But one does not need to re-hash old ground. 
So far as we are concerned, there will be an opposition to the proposition put forward by the Minister. But if we are not successful in this move, as very much a second best one cannot complain about the amendments which the Government now proposes and which it appears may have been forced upon it. But there are still some aspects that we would still assert are important. One of them is the amendment moved in relation to clause 13 (3) (a). We would wish to have that amendment dealt with specifically. That is the Government amendment which - 
I am just indicating at this stage that I will be coming on to it. 
Yes, I will specifically come to outline amendment No. 3. An amendment has been proposed to insert a new paragraph 3 (aa) in clause 13. We will be drawing some attention to paragraph 3 (a). I just indicate that at this stage, because when we have dealt with the 
Government's proposals contained in amendments Nos 1 and 2, in chronological order the next amendment to which we would wish to draw attention would be in relation to clause 13 (3) (a). 
-On behalf of the Liberal Party I indicate that while we regard these amendments as being second best we are delighted to support their inclusion in the Schools Commission Bill as an improvement on the Bill as it stands. There are ways in which we would have preferred to have seen the Bill improved, but at least this is better than nothing at all. Therefore we will not be opposing these amendments 

<graphic href="058232197312122_24_2_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="058232197312122_24_2_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="058232197312122_24_2_3_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="058232197312122_24_2_4_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I indicate on behalf of the Liberal Party that our attitude to these amendments is the same as our attitude was to amendments Nos 1 and 2. Whilst we believe that other amendments were necessary we see these as being desirable improvements to the Bill and will support them as second best. I take this opportunity to indicate that we regard as of fundamental importance the acceptance of the principle that there is in a free society a prior right on the part of parents to choose whether their children should be educated at one school or another. That, of course, is the significant concession made by the Government in moving these amendments. I wish to acknowledge that we are delighted to see that the Government has been prepared to make that concession. We believe it is fundamental to the preservation of a free society that that sort of choice should be available. It was thought by the drafters of the United Nations Declaration on Human Rights to be a matter of sufficient significance to be included in that Declaration. We regard it as of fundamental importance that the Schools Commission will have regard to this principle. 
Amendment No. 4 is a consequential one and makes no change in regard to the aspect of research. There seems to be something of a downgrading of the role of research by the Commonwealth Government in its plans. I take this opportunity to indicate on behalf of the Liberal Party that it is our view that the role of research is a national function which should be coordinated by whatever is the major body under the Commonwealth Government. Research should have a far more significant role than it appears that it will have under the proposals of this Government. We regard research in relation to education as one of the most important developments which can occur to maximise the advantages which can come to the children of Australia from developments in our education system. For instance, we see the necessity for a combination of social research with educational research. The two should be combined. We think there would be very desirable benefits .from the creation of a national research institute. We think it is desirable that there be a co-ordination and dissemination of the material available in relation to research on education carried out in various States of Australia by various institutions and universities and individual persons. I make those comments in passing. It does appear that the Government does not place the same emphasis on the importance of research that the Liberal Party does. The general comments I have made apply to the other amendments. Whilst we think there are other amendments which should have been carried, we accept these as second best. 
I think that the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas 
McClelland) wishes to inquire whether we are going to have a cognate debate on the Health Insurance Bill and the Health Insurance Commission Bill. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)-Is  leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
This means that we will have a cognate debate on the Health Insurance Bill and the Health Insurance Commission Bill. These Bills are part of an overall scheme put forward by the Government as its health scheme. There are at least 4 more Bills which are not before the Senate at the moment but which are to be introduced, according to the Government, in the next session to complement these Bills as part of the entire scheme. Therefore one of the problems that we have in dealing with these Bills is that we do not know even at this stage- undoubtedly the Government does not even know at this stagewhat the total scheme involves. We do not know what is involved in the passing of this legislation because there are other Bills to come with which we are as yet unfamiliar. 
With the full agreement of the Opposition I announce that we are opposing the passage of these 2 Bills. I state at the outset that we realise the consequences of this action. As the Liberal Party spokesman on health, the honourable member for Hotham,  Mr Chipp,  said in the debate in the House of Representatives, notwithstanding the fact that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  have threatened a double dissolution if we oppose this legislation, we believe that it is our duty to act in the interests of the people of Australia. The real question is how best to improve the standard of health care in this country. That is the question we face- not threats by the Government, not what may be regarded as the antics of a paper tiger, or not regarded in that way depending upon one's view of the credibility of the Government at the moment. Probably the Government's credibility is at an all-time low but I leave that matter aside. If we approach the question as I have suggested, and that is how best to improve the standard of health care in Australia, I think we can look to the average Austraiian. I think that we can look at the way in which he has expressed his view. 
There has been a wave of revulsion in this country against the proposed health scheme. Seldom has there been such a wave of feeling manifested in a community as there has been at the attempt by this Government to nationalise, to take away the right of choice, to take away a good, satisfactory scheme and to impose against the will of the people something which will be not as good but which will cost a lot more. How indicative of the extent of the reaction of the people of Australia is the fact that I have received from Tasmania, for presentation in the House of Representatives, certain petitions. Because of the importance of the matter I sought - 

 - Mr Deputy President, I do not intend to respond to interjections. I just take the opportunity to mention that. There are burblings coming from the opposite side of the chamber. I intend to continue my speech. I was saying that this wave of revulsion in the community is demonstrated by the fact that I have had forwarded to me from Tasmania petitions signed by 23,500 electors in Tasmania alone. Over 10 per cent of the total number of voters in the State have been prepared to sign petitions which were forwarded to me so that I could arrange for the presentation of those petitions in the House of Representatives. Therefore, I asked the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Snedden,  to present those petitions. Petitions containing 21,000 signatures have been presented. He will present petitions containing a further 2,500 tomorrow, as I understand the position. 
Let us look at another indication of the attitude of the people of Australia. Perhaps it represents a small area only, but I think it is quite significant. It was handed to me by  Senator Bonner  with a request that I simply mention it. A poll was taken at the instance of the Darling Downs Electors Association in the area serviced by the Toowoomba 'Chronicle'. It ran a vote on the national health scheme. That vote sought an indication of whether people favoured the compulsory national health insurance scheme proposed by the Government or whether they favoured the existing voluntary health insurance scheme with minor improvements. The result was that 8 people voted for the Government's health scheme, and 185 people voted against it. Maybe that is not indicative of the full strength of the opposition to the Government's health scheme because it comes only from the Darling 
Downs area. Let us look at the other petitions which have been presented to this Parliament. Throughout the session it has been rare for a day to pass without petitions being presented in this chamber on behalf of Australians who are concerned at the Government's proposal, who are concerned to see that the Parliament is aware of their feelings and that the Parliament will be responsive to their feelings. The assurance which I give on behalf of the Liberal Party of Australia is that we are responsive to the feelings of the vast majority of Australians who are revolted by this attempt to reduce the standards of health care in Australia. 
Before talking about the Bills in great detail, let me remind honourable senators of something which is proposed to be taken away. The Bills will take away the existing health scheme and will replace it with something which I will discuss shortly. Our scheme, the scheme which exists at the moment, is a scheme which, in the interests of the preservation of a free society and of the right of choice and the freedom of choice of doctors, hospitals and health insurance, allows every Australian the opportunity to exercise that choice. How important that right is to so many of us. What more important time in our lives do we want to be able to exercise our choice to be treated by the person in whom we have faith than when we have an illness of when we have an accident? How important that right is to the average Australian has been shown by the reactions to this proposal which would take away that right of choice. 
We see the importance of the preservation of flexibility in administration and the importance of a degree of competition which the Government in one breath pretends to support but which it does everything it can to reduce. We think that there should be a degree of competition between doctors, hospitals and health insurance schemes, all of which are conducive to development, improvement and provision of the best possible services at the lowest possible cost. We believe that health care must be reasonably available as a right. We believe that it is a government's duty to ensure that there is adequate health care available and that the right may be exercised by each Australian. So we have as our aims that the present Liberal scheme be improved where necessary. There have been improvements from time to time in the past. No scheme is perfect. No one is able to perfect something which does not, at any stage in its use, require a little maintenance. We agree that there are some areas of the health scheme which require maintenance. But we do not see them as justifying the throwing out of the whole of the scheme which has worked well, which has worked satisfactorily in the mind of the average Australian and which, we believe, will ensure that adequate health care is available as a right to all Australians, with an exercise of their right of choice and with a reasonable degree of flexibility. 
We see it as necessary to consider the pensioner medical scheme and the subsidised health benefits and for them to be incorporated into the present national insurance arrangements to ensure that all benefits accruing to pensioners and low income earners are available under the scheme. We see it as desirable that there should be basic health care insurance coverage of the maximum number of people in this country and that it should be readily available for those people. We see as essential the survival of the independent health insurance funds for all health services, including paramedical services. We see it as desirable that there should be appropriate deterrents to the abuse of the health scheme. Human nature being what it is, there is always the possibility that a scheme will be abused. We see it as desirable that steps should be taken to prevent from taking place abuses which come to light. We see it as desirable that neither doctors nor patients should be in a position to abuse the scheme. If there have been abuses in the past, if there may be abuses in future, that is not justification for scrapping the whole of a substantially successful and acceptable health scheme. We see it as desirable that there should be an annual determination of medical fees which is not binding on all medical practitioners but, as in the past, it is desirable that all should endeavour to comply. If doctors wish to see a situation in which there is a freedom of choice and in which there is an opportunity for competition, it is their duty to ensure that they comply with the annual determination which would be fixed by an independent tribunal comprising representatives of government, consumers and the medical profession, under the chairmanship of an independent person. That tribunal would fix annually the fees payable in respect of the services provided by the medical profession. 
We see it as essential that there should be a retention of private hospitals, although we recognise that in areas there are needs for upgrading some of the standards in some of the hospitals. We hope that the Government is paying attention to ways in which that can be achieved rather than taking steps to prevent the continuation of private hospitals. As I shall outline in a few moments, that is one of the effects of the Bills. We see it is desirable that there should be a continuance of private nursing homes, including those which are conducted for profit and those which are conducted by charitable institutions on a non-profit basis. In this area there is some necessity for improvement of the control of admissions, the control of discharges and the rehabilitation of persons who are in those homes. But to endeavour to limit them and take them away is something which I believe the Austraiian people do not want. 
We see it as desirable that the decentralised domiciliary care services should be extended, as should the services of day hospitals. I think it is important for us to remember that where there is variety and opportunity we have a much greater chance of being able to serve the interests of the people, because people are all different. We cannot have the approach of peas in a pod, the approach of saying that everybody must do this or do that without finding out whether a large number of people will be unhappy. That course does not suit everybody and if aged people are unhappy the tendency is that they die. What will is there for people to get better? What will is there for elderly people to live in circumstances into which they are being forced to go when they would not choose such circumstances for themselves. Naturally we see that it is desirable that people should, so far as possible, be kept in their own homes and that domiciliary services or day hospitals should be provided for their treatment. We believe they should be able to live in the surroundings in which they have resided by choice during their lifetime. 
We see a large number of grounds upon which the Bill should be opposed. It is clear and beyond doubt that the scheme will lower the quality of medical care in Australia. We see public hospital wards, which are already full, being unable to cope with the extra burden of all the people who are eligible for admittance without any means test and who wish to avail themselves of that opportunity. If people are required to pay by taxation extraction for the services of a hospital and for a bed in a public hospital ward, are they likely to say, 'I want to pay again over and above', or are they likely to say, 'I have paid for this and I wish to exercise my own right '? 
-Senator Gair interjects and says that the people will be paying again for something that they are already getting for nothing, which no doubt is a matter of considerable importance to the people of Queensland. I can point out that the likely effect on public hospital wards is that there will be a greater demand on already limited accommodation. The net result will be longer waiting time. The net result will be the lowering of the standard of services provided. The net result will be that more people will be dissatisfied and more people will be dead. What will happen? We will find that the people with a lower income and seriously ill people will have to compete for beds where they now have them by right. At the moment the wealthier people in the community tend to pay for the private or intermediate wards because they can obtain insurance. But when we find that they have already paid a situation will arise in which people whom the Government pretends it is trying to help, the disadvantaged and lower income group within the community, will be having to compete with others against whom by and large they did not in the past have to compete. 
As has happened in so many other countries that have introduced this type of scheme, the waiting time will become longer. We will find that for non-urgent cases an appointment can be made for several years hence if one wishes to go on with whatever operation was recommended. Otherwise, vastly increased rates will have to be paid for the services to be made available. In relation to the private hospitals, the Minister has the discretion to decide how many beds will be declared public so that these private hospitals are at the discretion and mercy of the Minister. We find that the Minister under clause 34 can provide for a supplementary daily bed payment at a rate fixed by him. The net effect, as was explained in detail in the debate in the other chamber, almost invevitably will be a reduction in the number of private beds available and an increase in the number of public beds available in what used to be known or are presently known as private hospitals. These private hospitals will be forced to hand over beds because of the effects of the introduction of this scheme. 
The effects of the introduction of the scheme will include the fact that fewer people will want private beds and more people will want public beds. There will be partly empty private hospitals which will be forced in fact to make some of their beds available to the Government's scheme as beds in public wards. Once the private hospitals are forced to do that, the Minister has the absolute discretion as to how many of the beds will be made public. We will find that the private hospitals will have a very short life. The private hospital system has served the interests of the community and the interests of the provision of a degree of choice to those in the community who wish to exercise it. We will also find that in public beds in private hospitals patients will not be able to exercise a choice in relation to their doctor. They will not be able to say that they have a particular preference for a doctor and that doctor is the one from whom they would like to have treatment. We will find also that if the number of private beds declines so will the ability of medical specialists who now provide many honorary services on top of their own private practice. There will be a decline in the number of specialists. Specialists will either have to become salaried doctors at public hospitals or work on a sessional basis in public hospitals. 
There are other undesirable developments in medical care in Australia. I have outlined some of the effects if this Bill is passed. There will be clearly a reduction in choice. There will be clearly a reduction in the standard of care available to the Australian people. One of the side effects of this Bill is clear. It is a manifest first step towards the nationalisation of health care in Australia. Let us have a look at some of the other aspects. I turn firstly to costs. We have had many somewhat curious estimates as to costs. We have found that the Minister and his advisers have had to review the costs on a number of occasions. It is now said that there will be a 1.35 per cent supertax on all taxpayers. I wish to make it quite clear so that there is no misunderstanding that this is not just a matter of there being payment for medical care in Australia out of the taxpayers' funds to already existing funds. It is a matter of the provision of a new imposition on each and every taxpayer in Australia. 
Every person who pays tax will be required to pay a 1.35 per cent supertax subject to certain limits. The taxpayers will have to recognise that large amounts of their already paid tax funds will also be going to the provision of medical and hospital care. The effect of all this will be the payment of an extra $80 to $125 for a family man in Australia if he wishes to have the coverage which is at present available to him for private wards. The outcome will be that members of the average family in Australia who would like to exercise a right of choice and be able to go, if they wished for one reason or another, to a private ward will receive that service only upon the payment of virtually double the present costs. It is also interesting to note that for each $1 raised by the tax, $1.28 will have to be paid out of Consolidated Revenue during the first year, which is estimated to increase to $1.50 in the second year, and I remind honourable senators that that is in addition to the 1.35 per cent super tax. So we will find that the total cost will be quite astronomical. Although the Government has claimed that the new scheme will be no more expensive, it is a little hard to accept this when one looks at the history of gross costing errors made by the Minister and his staff in the past. I am sure honourable senators will remember the embarrassing confessions before the recent medical fees tribunal about the rather huge error of many millions of dollars which was made in calculating costs. 
Faced with that situation, let us see just what the Government can say to confirm its calculation of the cost of its scheme. So that the Government can give some thought to that, I refer to an interesting study that was conducted by an economic and market research firm, Phillip Shrapnel and Co., which recently carried out a detailed costing of the present and the proposed health insurance schemes. The conclusion which that company reached was that the Minister had underestimated the cost of the Government scheme by nearly $300m in the first year. It estimated that the Hayden scheme would cost $380m more than the existing scheme in the first year, and that the cost will escalate sharply. I am quite confident that the average Australian finds costs escalating quite sharply enough as a result of the other actions of this Government without having forced on to him a huge escalation in total costs of a health scheme which has been partially worked out and many times altered; a scheme which can be described only as unsatisfactory to the Australian people and which will reduce the standard of health care whilst increasing the costs of health care. 
The present health insurance scheme covers about 90 per cent or 92 per cent of the population.  Mr Hayden  's estimate is that 87 per cent of the Australian people are now covered by health insurance, but I think if we consider what I will say we will see that that is not a correct estimate. At present, 79 per cent of the Australian people are covered by private health insurance, 10 per cent are covered by pensioner medical services, and approximately 3 per cent are covered by subsidised health benefits. There is nothing to confirm the view that it would be possible to get 100 per cent coverage. The figures in relation to the English experience show that the percentage there is about 94 per cent or 96 per cent. So perhaps the difference between those who are covered under the present scheme and those who would be covered under the Government's compulsory scheme is somewhere between 2 per cent and 4 per cent. But is it necessary that the present scheme should cover only 92 per cent of the Australian population? That is not so. We believe that alterations can be made to the present scheme which will increase the percentage of people covered by it. The Government's proposal is to take away the freedom of up to 92 per cent of Australians, who now voluntarily insure with the fund of their own choice or who are covered by other aspects of health care, and to compel them, by a taxation mechanism, to insure, up to standard hospital ward care level in what can be described only in the terms which were used in many of the debates on this scheme as a monolithic Government insurance fund. 
In other words, to cover for insurance purposes between 2 per cent and 4 per of Australians, the Government will destroy the right to free choice of 92 per cent of Australians. The Liberal Party, as I have already indicated, does not in any way attack or oppose the concept of maximum insurance cover. If  Mr Hayden  wishes to direct attention towards covering the uncovered, he would have our full support, but instead he is attacking the freedom of choice of Australians and upsetting the arrangements made and approved by an overwhelming majority of the Australian people. 
Another aspect, I think, deserves attention. The new scheme will mean that Government departments- Government bureaucrats- will have to handle about 90,000 claims a day. Presumably this will involve a massive increase in the total number of public servants. It will mean that this matter is conducted on the same basis as the public service in other areas is conducted. Who, looking at that, can claim and establish that health insurance can be provided more efficiently and at lower cost than it is provided by private funds, by private enterprise? The experience all over the world is that where government takes over the provision of a service the cost of the provision of that service tends to rise. It is clear that there will be less efficiency, less competition, and less service if there is only one government national fund into which people are required to contribute by a compulsory tax extraction. That is hardly in the interests of the preservation of a free society, in the interests of economy or in the interests of providing the maximum standard of health care to Australians. But as well as that we see things such as the threat to privacy. We will have a vast nationwide computer data bank storing medical information on all Australian people. Whilst we do not allege that the Minister will knowingly divulge information, it is clear - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
What does the honourable senator call a short extension? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? 
I thank honourable senators. I was just referring to the threat to privacy by the introduction of a vast computer bank containing the medical history of and information on all Australian people. Whether or not this is the intention of the Minister or the Government, the idea of the medical records of the entire community being stored in one vast governmentowned and controlled data bank is abhorrent to most Australians. There is in the Labor proposal a number of things which the Opposition would support. These include increased financial assistance to public hospitals, the enabling of visitors to Australia to participate in the scheme by payment of a premium, special medical benefits for unusual or complex medical procedures, the right of doctors to appeal against decisions of committees of inquiry, increased payments to private hospitals, the integration of pensioners into the scheme, and the entitlement of pensioners to the same benefits. I indicate to the Government and to the people that, if the Government were prepared to introduce these provisions as amendments to the present health scheme, the Opposition would support them. 
But this Bill in its present form and with its associated proposals will clearly do the following: It will lower the quality of medical care for Australian families; it will increase the total costs for the Government and thus for taxpayers; it will increase total costs for the majority of taxpayers, because they could only maintain the present quality of their health care by additional heavy commitments for private insurance; it will reduce freedom of choice; it will jeopardise the future of religious, private and country hospitals; and by design and intent it will be the first stage of nationalisation of health and medical care in Australia. 
I believe that we speak on behalf of the vast majority of Australians. No attitude has been made more clear in recent times than that of the Australian people in relation to the health scheme. We propose to act on behalf of that vast majority of the Australian people who object to the Government's proposals. Accordingly I move: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert- the Senate is of the opinion that the existing health scheme is one of the best and most efficient in the world and that therefore this Bill and associated Bills should be withdrawn, because the Government's alternative proposals to the existing health scheme will- 
lower the quality of medical care for Australian families, 
increase total costs for the Government and thus for taxpayers, 
increase total costs for the majority of taxpayers, because they could only maintain the present quality of their health care by additional heavy commitments for private insurance, 
reduce freedom of choice, 
jeopardize the future of religious, private and country hospitals, and (0 by design and intent be the first stage of nationalis ation of health and medical care in Australia. ' 
I seek to pursue this matter a little further. What is involved in the principle which has just been enunciated by the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  as to the objective behind the categorisation in respect of category A and, presumably, category B? I ask that because they do not enjoy the same sort of increase as the others? What is involved in this phasing down over a period of 2 years? Does it mean that after 2 years they will be phased down further? Is that the Government's policy? Does it mean that they will be phased out after 2 years? What is the Government's policy in relation to this aspect? 
-Mr Acting  Deputy President, Senator Wilkinson,  I should like to take the opportunity to withdraw andapologise for any reflection which earlier today I cast on your chairmanship of the Committee. I do that without any reservation whatsoever. My remarks were not intended to be taken as a reflection. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wilkinson)-  Thank you,  Senator Rae. 
I am grateful to the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  for moving the amendment on behalf of the Government. Although it is not quite in the terms that we asked for, we accept it in the spirit in which it is given, namely, as an attempt to reach a compromise which will achieve the general purpose, and we shall support the amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report adopted. 
(Tasmania)- I seek leave to make a statement as Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
There are some aspects of this type of development about which I wish to make some comments. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-The Liberal Party of Australia believes that a matter of principle is an important matter. In the whole of the debate which has taken place in this chamber there has been a marked distinction between the attitude of the government, which is not related to principle but to expediency, and the attitude of the Liberal Party, which is totally related to the establishment and retention of matters of principle. I shall give the history of the Bill. The Government has, by a series of rather shabby actions, marred an otherwise outstanding development in education in Australia. I think it is worthwhile at this stage to recapitulate the history for a moment. We had the promise that no school would be worse off and that no student would be worse off under a Labor Government. Did it honour that promise? No. At the first opportunity, it was thrown out the door. Why? For political expediency and for compromise within a party. The Government is not prepared to honour the clear promises which were given repeatedly throughout last year. 
The Karmel Committee was set up. It was desirable. We did not in any way attack it. But its terms of reference were secretly varied by a government whose Minister, as recently as 8 February of this year, was still saying what he said the previous year, which was that no one would be worse off. He said that in a letter dated 8 February to the Secretary of the Victorian Parents and Friends Federation. By 13 April he was, in effect, directing the Karmel Committee to break that promise of the Government. One can only speculate as to what may have caused that change of heart. A reasonable speculation becomes quite clear when one looks at the next step, because the next step was the Karmel Committee's recommendations at the end of May this year. At the end of May it came out with a recommendation to the effect that there was a need to continue a form of per capita grants, albeit reduced for a significant percentage of the students involved, throughout 1974 and 1975. The Government, dealing obviously in haste, without an appreciation of what was involved and on a vindictive basis, decided to exclude some students from eligibility to receive anything. This was another shabby breach of promise by the Government. 
A continuation of the shabby actions of this Government is seen in the misrepresentation which has taken place and the continual misstatements, which were repeated again today by the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)-  no doubt unwittingly because I accept that the Minister was reading what had been prepared for him by the Minister whom he represents. The claim that all schools except those which under this proposal will get some increased amount in comparison with the amount which they would have received under the original Bill were better off than they would have been under the previous legislation is demonstrably untrue. Fifty-three per cent of pupils attending non-systemic non-government schools will be worse off than they would have been under the 1972 legislation because the 1972 legislation provided an automatic escalation which is not now provided for until one gets to category F. So it is only the students who come within the top or the bottom categories, depending upon which way  one  looks at themcategories G and H- who will clearly get a greater amount than they would have got under the previous scheme. 
It is irresponsible to claim that the Government is endeavouring to establish a needs principle. It has never defined the needs principle. Even the Karmel Committee found it difficult to know what the Government meant by a needs principle, and it set out to use its own definition. The Government has never defined a needs principle, but it uses that principle to colour, on an emotional basis, the debate which takes place in relation to this issue. The Government claims that is has been trying to establish a needs principle. Actually it has been trying to embrace the old outmoded philosophies of our new socialist Government, based upon class hatreds, prejudices, class warfare and all that is obnoxious and outmoded in this country. In a democracy there is no room for that principle. However, there is room for the principle for which the Liberal Party stands, and that is that there should be freedom of choice in education and that it is a fundamental concept in a free society that children should not be forced into one form of education which is controlled by the Government of the day. But that is what the socialist Government would wish to see. It has set out to divide effectively those who are involved in the provision of an alternative education scheme and an alternative opportunity so that the people of this country, particularly the children, have a choice. 
There has been misrepresentation suggesting that we were opposing the Karmel funds. It is quite clear that at no stage did the Liberal Party oppose the provision of the Karmel funds. At all times we have voted for them, and at all times we have totally supported them. That was made clear as early as 22 August this year and has been repeated by me on numerous occasions. No action which we have taken has opposed the provision of those funds. We were misrepresented when we were accused of seeking an extra $1 14m. Never did we say that we were seeking an extra $114m. At all stages we made it clear that our proposals would not cost more than an extra $5m a year. The proposals, as costed by the Department of Education, would cost about $4m extra a year. I think its estimate was a little low, but that is not of any great moment at this stage. We have the repeated claim by the Acting Minister for Education  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and other Government spokesmen that this is a move by the Liberal Party to look to the interests of the wealthy schools. It has been pointed out repeatedly in debates in this chamber that many poor schools suffer as a result of an absurd formula which virtually has regard only to pupil-teacher ratios. Therefore, the small school, the struggling school and the school with small and diminishing numbers is likely to be hard hit by this form of categorisation. Throughout Australia are many schools, such as the Adass Israel school, Marbury College, Portland Loreto Convent, the Australian International Independent School (Sydney) and many others that one could name which are small, which have clear needs, and which are being positively discriminated against by this Government which wishes to ensure the perpetuation of a discrimination against a section of the community. 
This Government does not recognise the basic principle which it is prepared to apply in relation to other legislation, to child endowment and tertiary eduction- the principle that everyone is entitled to equal treatment to a base degree and that extra provision can be made if it is considered necessary. That principle is not applied in this instance. And why not? Because of the shabby attitudes of a section of the Australian Labor Party which is not prepared to honour the promises that were made or to recognise that this country has grown up and that no longer should we perpetuate the sort of principles which were advocated by its socialist predecessors in the early days of the Labor Party. It is unfortunate that in a country such as Australia we should still have people endeavouring to impose principles which have become outmoded and which are the very antithesis of a free society and of the development of a nation which can be proud of having available and retaining free choice to every citizen. 
This Government, for the sake of $ 1.5m, has refused to agree to the proposition put by the combined Opposition Parties and has agreed to something which is a bit less, apparently on some face saving basis. The Government has caved in on this. It was weak-kneed enough to say: 'We are not prepared to admit that we are wrong. We are not prepared to admit that we made the promises, although we cannot deny them. We are not prepared to admit that there is a principle which we promised to uphold and which we are now breaching, but we will come to a compromise agreement which will get us off the hook. ' That is the situation before the Senate today. We have a government which is not prepared to honour its promises, a government which is not prepared to stand by even the principle which it was enunciating a few weeks ago, and a government which is prepared to enter into deals just for the sake of getting itself out of the difficult situation of being found out in its breaches of promise. 
Little else need be said other than that the Liberal Party stands by the principle which it holds; that is, that a base per capita grant should be available to every child in Australia who wishes to avail himself of it. There should be a base per capita grant which all non-government schools can know will be available as a base level in respect of every pupil. 
The Government's mishandling of this matter during the whole of the past 12 months, its breaches of promise and its leading of people into a false expectation and then refusing to live up to the expectations it had induced have created havoc in the administration of the nongovernment school area. Many of them do not know what is to happen. Even under this proposal they will not know what is to happen because, here again, we find the implied principle that there will be a phasing out. The Liberal Party, will at every opportunity, oppose any attempt to phase out the basic per capita grant. When we are elected to government as soon as the present Government is prepared to hold an election, which it is showing a marked reluctance to do- it is making big noises but taking little action- we will immediately re-introduce the base per capita grant. That promise will be kept, unlike the shabby actions of the present Government which is not prepared to honour the promises it has made so repeatedly. The Liberal Party will oppose this motion. 
I again ask the Minister for the Media  (Senator McClelland)  to answer the question I asked as to what is involved in the phasing out. Does it mean that it is to be taken literally by those schools, that they can expect not to receive anything after this 2-year period has elapsed unless they go broke in the meantime or, by some other reduction of standards, manage to qualify for the Government's idea of educational justice and equity? Does it mean that they must look forward to that situation or that they must look forward in total confusion as to what will happen in 2 years time? 
I simply wish to point out that the Karmel Committee did refer in paragraph 1.19 of its report to the fact that abrupt termination of aid would be likely to cause difficulties to the schools which were so affected. It seems quite extraordinary that the Minister for the Media  (Senator McClelland)  should still maintain the attitude which he maintains. I simply say that it appears, in summary, that the schools which are being categorised have no basis upon which to plan with any certainty as to what is likely to happen to them after the end of 1975, which is a tragedy as far as the development of education in Australia is concerned. 
It appears that the Temporary  Chairman  of Committees was very anxious not to hear some calls for a division. I am told that there was a second voice calling for a division, but perhaps it was not loud enough for him to hear. The situation is that the Liberal Party of Australia does wish a division. So that there will be a clear division, I will oppose the motion which has been moved by the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  and will call for a division in relation to it. 
I express on behalf of the Opposition support for the philosophy behind the legislation. We support the passage of the Bill, although we have some reservations that I wish to express. However, I do not wish to take time this afternoon in going through what the Bill is all about, which has appeared in other parts of Hansard, nor do I wish to go through the general attitude of the Opposition on this matter, as this is set out in a speech given by  Mr Chipp  in the House of Representatives. I simply adopt what he said and ask people to refer to the House of Representatives Hansard at page 4538. A number of requests have been made by State Ministers that they should have a further opportunity to consider this legislation before it comes into effect. Claims have been made that they have not been able to consider it adequately, and we believe that in the interests of federalism there is some merit in giving consideration to their requests. 
As opposed to that, though, we believe it important that the functions which are to be carried out under this legislation be able to be undertaken and, if it was to be delayed for several months by our deferring it, this would be unfortunate. Accordingly, we ask the Minister to ensure that his colleague will be as co-operative as possible with the State Ministers who wish to have further discussions in relation to this matter. Next year, after discussions have taken place and if the Sates have representations to make, we may wish to move some amendments to the legislation. At this stage I shall be moving only one amendment at the Committee stage, and I understand that it will be accepted by the Minister. It was stated in the lower House that it would be accepted. I therefore do not elaborate on it at this stage. 
I simply make 2 comments. The first is that the Opposition does not like the idea of a Bill which gives, in effect, a blank cheque to the Minister and the Commission. We see it as desirable that the Government give some thought to seeing that there is a proper parliamentary supervision of the operations of and expenditure by the Commission, and if by no other way this Parliament will be able to do that through the Estimates Committees. We also see it as fundamental that there should be in the operation of the Commission co-operation with the States, and it is in relation to that that in Committee I will move an amendment. There is the further question of reporting to Parliament. This was raised in the House of Representatives and I understand that the Minister will be moving an amendment which, although not exactly what we sought, is acceptable for the purpose of ensuring that there is communication between the Commission and the Parliament. 

 Senator WEBSTER (Victoria) (3.53-The philosophy behind this Bill has the general support of the Australian Country Party.  Mr Lloyd  of the House of Representatives, as reported at page 4550 of Hansard for the House of Representatives, put the view of our Party on this matter. One question which I have in mind and to which I direct the Minister's attention is that in my view this Bill will commence an erosion of State rights, and in relation to health this may be a particularly important matter. I plead with the Australian Government that it seek to co-operate and deal with the States in this matter. I wish to read to the Senate 2 urgent telegrams which I have received, one from the Minister for Health in Victoria, which was sent yesterday and which states: 
Victoria supports New South Wales and Queensland Governments' opposition to the hospitals and health services commission Bill. Request that the Bill be deferred by the Senate to enable State Health Ministers to examine the legislation. Victoria particularly objects to clause 5 ( 1 ) (a), (b) and (c). There have been no discussions with either the Minister or the Department on this Bill. 
I have another urgent telegram from  Mr Tooth,  who is the Health Minister in Queensland. That telegram reads: 
Queensland joins New South Wales and Victoria in expressing grave reservations regarding the Hospitals and Health Services Commission Bill 1973 presently before Federal Parliament insofar as many clauses appear to authorise invasion of States' rights and responsibilities. 
This is a matter that should concern the Senate considerably. As an interim committee has been working for most of 1973, my Party feels that the work it has done and the work that will be done by this Commission should be of advantage to health services in Austrafia. We ask the Minister to take the various State Departments affected by this Bill into closer consultation. 
I move: 
In Clause 5, at the end of the clause add the following new sub-clause: '(5) The Minister before giving his approval to the Commission to make grants under paragraph ( 1 ) (c) to a State organisation or to an organisation or persons in a State, other than an Authority or instrumentality of Australia, shall request the appropriate Minister of that State to consult with him concerning the matter and, if that Minister does not consult with him, have regard to the view expressed by that Minister'. 
The reasons for this amendment have been given previously. 
-The Opposition supports the National Health Bill (No. 2) 1973 which provides some amendments to the National Health Act. The Opposition congratulates the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  on making some desirable amendments to the Act. I wish to draw attention to only one point, and that is related to hearing aids which, under the provisions of the Bill, will cost pensioners nothing. There is an omission which we hope will be rectified. A small number of people are required to wear hearing aids which go inside the ear and they cannot use the type which at the moment is provided under the scheme. This results in a number of pensioners having to pay approximately $300 for a hearing aid so that they can hear. I understand that the Commonwealth Acoustics Laboratory is working on this problem, but I hope that the Minister for Health will ensure that everything possible is done to make this further amendment to the Act so that this small group of people can be catered for. With those comments, I indicate that we will support the legislation. 
I ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs a question which is supplementary to the question asked by  Senator Young.  What were the names of the 2 persons who unloaded the revolver on the occasion in relation to which a number of questions have been asked? What happened to the bullets taken from the revolver and in whose custody are they now? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Education: Is it a fact that the average per pupil cost in government schools in Australia has been calculated for the last year at $378 per primary school pupil and $639 per secondary school pupil? Is it a fact that this means that the schools in the Australian Capital Territory are receiving this year per capita grants of $76 for primary pupils and $128 for secondary pupils? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education. Will the Government take urgent steps to overcome its own internal problems so that it may take some positive steps to implement a preschool and child care scheme to ensure that even more educational institutions are not forced to close down? 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware of the concern recently expressed by teachers and parents, particularly at several schools in Tasmania, in relation to the withdrawal of free milk for school children and the likely effect on the health of children, particularly in lower income families? What is the latest proposal of the Government in relation to the provision of free milk for school children, or a suitable substitute? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. What, if any, subsidies or other forms of assistance are or will be available to the owners or the builders of new fishing vessels in Australia? 
I would like to put another point of view to you briefly,  Mr President.  It seems to me that the argument which has been put to the effect that standing order 242 is in some conflict with section 23 of the Constitution does not stand up as a proposition. If one accepts that the Constitution contains both section 23 and section 128, it must be taken, I suggest, that section 128 qualifies section 23. That being so, standing order 242 accords with the Constitution. As it does accord with the Constitution, the position is that there has not been a failure to pass, a rejection or an amendment. What there has been is a mandatory laying aside of the Bill without the question being put. In 1951 the then Solicitor-General, in dealing with the words 'fails to pass', expressed this opinion: 
This disagreement - 
He was referring to the disagreement between the 2 Houses-  may be shown in formal fashion either by rejection of a Bill or by passing it with amendments. The addition of the words  fails to pass' is intended to bring the section into operation if the Senate, not approving a Bill, adopts procedures designed to avert the taking of either of these definitive decisions on it. The expression 'fails to pass' is clearly not the same as the neutral expression 'does not pass', which would perhaps imply mere lapse of time. 'Failure to pass' seems to me to involve a suggestion of some breach of duty, some degree of fault, and to import, as a minimum, that the Senate avoids a decision on the Bill. 
The Senate has not avoided a decision on the Bill; it has attempted to take one. My submission is that in this case there has not been a failure to pass. The consequences of the action which has been taken by the Senate this afternoon are as follows: Firstly,  Mr President,  you should rule in accordance with standing order 242 that the question not be put and that the Bill be laid aside and not be brought forward again this session. Secondly, that the Bill has not, in accordance with the opinion that I have quoted, failed to pass this chamber. Therefore, under section 128 of the Constitution it may not be put to the Governor-General for the exercise of his prerogative in accordance with that section of the Constitution. Those were the points that I wished to make. 
A a result of a physical division of the Senate in order that I could discern where the numbers lay and who was in favour of and who was against the motion, the tellers informed me that the votes were ayes 28, noes 23. I did not immediately announce the numbers because of matters which have been engaging the attention of honourable senators for the last quarter of an hour or so. Therefore, I feel bound to make some observations and 1 do so as follows: I gave consideration to this matter earlier in the day, but it was not possible for me to anticipate, nor proper that 1 should even attempt to anticipate, what the decision of the Senate would be. I asked the Senate, therefore, as I have explained to honourable senators, to divide so that I might know where the numbers lay. I now know the numbers and so does the Senate. I invited advice from honourable senators. As the  President  of the Senate I cannot attempt, nor should I attempt, to predict what would be the constitutional opinion of others who are not within the Senate. I feel that I am totally and absolutely bound by the orders of the Senate. I feel that I am bound, therefore, to uphold standing order 242 and to rule that the Bill be laid aside. If any honourable senator objects to my ruling the forms of the Senate are open to him. So in accordance with standing order 242, the Bill, not having' an absolute majority, will be laid aside. 

 - Mr President, I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to make my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. On 12 December last year I asked a question in the following terms: 
Is the Minister aware that the regulations in relation to the use of 2-way radios on small craft will require that as from the end of this year only single sideband radios may be installed - 
I also asked whether it was correct that at the moment there was a shortage of those radios, whether it was correct that the cost of them was 4 times as great as the cost of double sideband radios and whether the Minister was aware that the almost inevitable consequence of the enforcement of the proposition mentioned would be a reduction in the usage of radios in small craft with a consequent reduction in the possible safety provided by the use of those radios. I asked for a reconsideration of the decision. The Minister said that he would take the matter up with the Postmaster-General. I now ask whether there have been any results? 
-The Opposition supports this Bill. It arises as a result of a decision of the Government in relation to the abolition of fees for technical education. The net result of that decision of the Commonwealth Government is that the State governments suffer a loss of revenue which they otherwise would have obtained from fees paid by students. It is fair and appropriate that where the Commonwealth Government takes such a decision it should reimburse the States for that loss. We wholly support the measure to reimburse the States. 
My question is directed to either the Minister for Primary Industry or the Minister representing the Treasurer, whoever considers he is in the better position to answer it. I refer to an article in the edition of 21 February of a magazine known as 'Stock and Land' in which reference was made to the fact that expenditure on the destruction of weeds and pests and expenditure on soil conservation are no longer allowable in the year of expenditure but only over a 10-year period. To clarify the matter, is it a fact? If it is, why has that step been taken in relation to these aspects of primary industry? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to make my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I ask the Attorney-General: At what times of the day did the Executive Council meeting commence and finish on 21 March 1 974? ls it a fact that the journal records of the Senate show  Senator Gair  as having been present all day on 2 1 March 1 974? 
Can the Minister for Aborigi  nal Affairs indicate, or will he ascertain and let us know, the exact amount which to date has been paid in respect of legal aid for Aborigines in Tasmania, the number of applications received and the average amount expended? 

 - Mr President, I seek leave to make a very brief statement in relation to a matter on which I claim to have been misrepresented. 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
In doing so, I draw attention to the contents of the statement which has just been presented. It refers to both the pre-school and the child-care programs of the present Government. I think it appropriate that we should have regard to this statement to see whether it is not another case of unfulfilled promises. The policy speech delivered by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in November of 1972, during the election campaign, referred to pre-schools. It referred to the fact that the area of greatest inequality in education is that of pre-schools. He went on to say: 
For an annual cost of $40m, which would take about six years to attain, we could provide every Australian child with the opportunity- a means of equalising and enriching every child's life for the rest of his life- now enjoyed fully only by children in Canberra. To administer this program of national enrichment and national equality we will establish a Pre- school Commission. 
The issue involves not only education; it is part of the fundamental issue of equality. The Prime Minister went on to refer to child care in the following terms: 
The Pre-School Commission will be responsible for developing these facilities in conjunction with pre-school centres, beginning in areas where the need is most acute. So long as public child-care facilities remain inadequate, we will allow fees paid to recognised private centres to be tax deductions to a maximum of $260 a year. 
As the statement makes quite clear, the Government has not done anything that could be called approaching the achievement of those policy promises. In relation to the last-mentioned promise, that of allowing fees paid to recognised private centres to be claimed as tax deductions to a maximum of $260 a year, I state that the Government has not done this. It has done it in relation to some children but not in relation to all children. I think that the story is well known in relation to pre-schools. We know of all the dreadful internal strife that is going on within the Labor Party in relation to this matter. Is it social welfare or is it education? What is the Government going to do? Will it develop a child care program or will it develop a pre-school program? I compare the unfulfilled promises and the unfulfilled expectations with the promise that was made by the Liberal Party as part of the same election campaign. The then Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  said in November 1972: 
We will provide $2Sm a year over the next three financial years for capita] and recurrent expenditure to assist the States in their efforts to expand pre-school education. 
So far it appears from the Minister's statement which was tabled in this chamber today that that position is not being achieved by the present Government whose plans provided for the expenditure of about that amount of money in the period since it has been in office. The present Government has continued the child care program which we introduced when we were in government. It has continued the program under the Child Care Act of November 1972, which was an Act which the former Liberal-Country Party coalition Government introduced. So I do not think that the present Government can take much credit for anything that has been done in relation to child care. 
The simple position is that the Government, which is unable to reconcile its own internal differences, stands by and allows the Australian children to suffer. The policy of the Liberal and County Parties, so far as their education committee is concerned, will be to ensure that there is adequate available space for both pre-school and child care programs. We will ensure that this area of need is met in an adequate way, not in the totally inadequate way set out in the statements which have just been tabled by the Minister.  Mr President,  I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 

 -Mr Deputy President, the debate with which we are concerned relates to the reintroduced Health Insurance Bill 1973- and I emphasise 1973'- and the Health Insurance Commission Bill also of 1 973. 1 will start by referring to 2 quotations from the second reading speeches which accompanied the presentation of these Bills. The Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland),  who in this chamber represents the 
Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  in his second reading speech said:  1 should emphasise that the Bill contains the same provisions as those outlined to the Senate when it was originally introduced in December 1973. 
In other words, the Health Insurance Bill is an identical Bill and, as I understand it, that is not disputed in any way. In order to see why the Bill has been introduced, let us have a look at the words of  Mr Hayden  when he introduced this Bill into the House of Representatives on 4 April 1974. It is interesting also to note that in the speech- which otherwise was almost identical with the speech delivered by  Mr Hayden-  which was made by the Minister for the Media, who had the responsibility for introducing the Bill into this chamber, these few words were omitted. Perhaps they were an indiscretion which was made off the cuff and were not intended to be revealed. But at page 1075 of the House of Representatives Hansard of 4 April 1974  Mr Hayden  is reported to have said: 
It has been our intention, and we are fulfilling that, to reintroduce this Bill because we regard health as an important issue at any election, but not the only issue. 
I remind honourable senators of the day on which the Health Insurance Bill was reintroduced. It was reintroduced on the day of and shortly following the announcement of the intention on the part of the Opposition parties to take certain action which might lead to an election of the House of Representatives and part of the Senate or to a double dissolution. As an almost immediate response by this Government, it cynically and for the purposes of the election- as clearly admitted by  Mr Hayden  in that statement which is reported at page 1075 of the House of Representatives Hansard of 4 April 1974- said that this Bill was reintroduced because the Government regards health as an important issue at any election, but not the only issue. I believe it is significant to note that what has been stated in this chamber by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  so often has been shown to be correct. This is an election gimmick, and it is a farce that this chamber should have imposed on it the duty of dealing with health Bills which were discredited last year throughout the public debate that took place in relation to them. I remind the chamber that when I spoke on this matter last December I referred to the fact that in Tasmania alone approximately 25,000 people had been prepared to sign petitions to the Parliament seeking to ensure that the Parliament was aware of the fact that these people did not want a health scheme, such as that which was envisaged by the Government, introduced. 
The brilliant senator from South Australia has been napping his feathers again and accusing the people of Tasmania, who are totally unkown  to him,  of being incapable of knowing the contents of the petitions that they were signing. On behalf of those 25,000 people I take great exception to  Senator McLaren's  accusation, which is unfair, and unjustified, and there is no basis of knowledge on his part on which he can make such an accusation. Let us have a look at the situation. In Tasmania there were 25,000 people who were prepared to sign petitions of that sort. It is suggested that this Bill was popular with the Australian people- that seems to be the idea in the Minister's speech- but what happened in Tasmania could hardly be described as showing popularity. The Bill was rejected by the people who looked at it, and it was rejected by this Parliament. But no, for political purposes and as a gimmick, this Government- this moribund Government, this corrupt Governmenthas decided to reintroduce the Bill. 
At the same time we saw the Government reintroduce the Petroleum and Mineral Authorities Bill, and I will refer further to that a little later when it is debated. I wonder why the Government did that- except for the same political purposes. It was not because it is genuine legislation being genuinely introduced for the consideration of the Parliament. The Government is introducing the legislation for its own purposes in order to try to build up the number of occasions on which this Senate has rejected legislation. As has been pointed out- and it will be pointed out again and again- most of the legislation which the Senate has rejected is related to about 5 areas of legislation- the Government's attempts to gerrymander the electorates and the Government's attempts to introduce an unwanted and unpopular health scheme. The Government's attempts to introduce that sort of legislation has been the subject matter of the disapproval of a majority of the Senate. But by far the vast majority- so close to the whole- of the Government's legislation program has been passed through this chamber. When one looks at the figures one sees that the noises coming from the Government become hollow. 

 - Mr Deputy President, I will have a drink of water and not do what some other people have done and throw a glass of water over somebody. This scheme reflects an obsession for power. I suggest that it is a typical reflection of this Government's obsession for gaining power to the central Government, power over people. We have seen this obsession reflected in many actions of the Government, We have seen it reflected in many of its proposals. These Bills are not concerned with the health care of the Australian people. They are concerned with the question of funding and the question of Government control of funding of the scheme to provide insurance. But what about the health of the Australian people? What about the access of the people to proper and appropriate health care? These are matters to which greater reference will be made by my colleague  Senator Carrick  who will follow me in this debate. 
I want to refer again to some of the aspects of the politics of the reintroduction of these Bills, just in case the Government thinks that we will pass this legislation. If that is the thought behind their reintroduction and not one of building up the number of occasions on which the Senate has rejected legislation, let me refer to the history of the Opposition 's attitude towards this type of activity on the part of this Government. I shall start with what the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Withers,  said on 15 May 1973 in relation to the Commonwealth Electoral Bill (No. 2) 1973. He said: 
In recent days a number of Ministers have been grandstanding and huffing and puffing about the possibility of a double dissolution. I would like to make it quite clear, as I have done before, that as far as I and my colleagues sitting behind me are concerned, this does not frighten us. My parliamentary Leader, the Rt Hon. B. M. Snedden, has made it very plain that he is not afraid of a double dissolution and in fact he is on record as saying that he would welcome it; so let us hear no more threats, no more grand words, and see no more poses by the Government. 
That was on 15 May 1973 and it made the position quite clear. No doubt the quotation recalls to the memories of honourable senators how the Government at that time was making a great deal of noise about double dissolutions. But that was before supporters of the Government saw the gallup polls. That was before they saw that the longer their Government lasted the less popular it became. That was before they saw what their own actions were doing in creating inflation in this country. That was before their series of broken promises, like the promise on defence which has just been debated here. They promised that they would expend at least 3.5 per cent of the gross national product on defence, but they have got nowhere near 3 per cent yet. These are the sorts of things that made the Australian people change their minds very rapidly. 
I want to quote further to show the attitude of the Opposition on these matters. On 19 September 1973, when speaking about the Constitution Alteration (Prices) Bill 1973, the Leader of the Opposition in this chamber said: 
There is no need for the Prime Minister so to indulge himself. If he is dissatisfied with what the Senate is doing or has done, the remedy is in his own hands. He has the means of obtaining a double dissolution. So, rather than indulging in abuse, he should go to the Governor-General and ask him for a double dissolution. 
The opportunity is there, what is lacking is the Prime Minister's courage- or maybe Caucus will not allow him to take the plunge. Its faith in him is not as great as his own faith in himself. 
One could comment that that Caucus lack of faith in the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has been displayed a number of times now. Let us consider what the Leader of the Opposition said on 28 August 1 973 in relation to the Commonwealth Electoral Bill (No. 2). He said this:  the next step is then up to the Prime Minister. We do not shirk from allowing the Australian people an opportunity to pass judgment on the performance of the Government nor of ourselves. 
The fact that the Opposition is prepared to face the people is not something that has just happened. It has been prepared to face the people at any time. The suggestion by the Prime Minister that the action contemplated by the Opposition in this chamber is in some way immoral, because Opposition senators were not prepared to face the people, is very shallow, in the light of history, in the light of the repeated statements and in the light of the fact that it has been the Prime Minister who has not been prepared notwithstanding the fact that the opportunities were there. On 13 March of this year, when speaking on the Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill, the Leader of the Opposition said: 
A double dissolution would bring about simultaneous elections of the whole of this chamber and of the House of Representatives. It is not even necessary to hold a double dissolution to bring the elections for the Senate and the House of Representatives back to the same date. The Government could, if it wished to do so and if it had the courage to do so, take out the House of Representatives at the next Senate election- that is, when those honourable senators who are due to retire at 30 June 1974 have to face their electors. There is no constitutional or legal reason why the Government should not take out the House of Representatives at that time. 
I should point out that it is not the Senate which is out of step with the House of Representatives but rather the House of Representatives which is out of step with the Senate. 
They are just some examples of the number of occasions on which it has been made very clear by the Opposition what its attitude is towards facing the electors. It also makes very clear that the people who have not been prepared to face the electors are those people in the government. They have not been prepared to take the opportunity which is open to them of letting the people of Australia pass judgment on their performances in relation to matters such as the health scheme. 
I remind you,  Mr Deputy President,  that this health scheme has been changed so many times from the one originally proposed at the time of the election campaign in November 1972 as to be virtually unrecognisable. It is interesting to consider that point. Why was it that so many alterations were made between November 1972 and now? The 1972 proposal was the one upon which the people of Australia voted, insofar as the mandate theory is at all applicable. That is the proposal for which the Government has a mandate. Why were there so many alterations throughout 1973 until in November 1973 a Bill, in the same form as the one we have before us today, was introduced in the House of Representatives? One might think that the Government was having second thoughts because it found that its ill conceived scheme had to be patched up and made workable in some ways. The Government tried to patch it up when it found that there was very stiff resistance from the Australian people in relation to the introduction of such a scheme once the people saw a little more of what was involved. 
I want to go on from that point. The history of this matter then takes us to the rejection of the Bills- the clear, constitutional and democratic rejection of that proposed legislation. What happened then? Virtually as soon as possible after the Parliament rose the Minister for Social Security went overseas for a month or so. If it was not a month exactly no doubt the Minister in this place representing the Minister for Social Security can correct me and supply the exact time. However, I believe it was about that length of time. Obviously that visit was at considerable cost to the taxpayers of Australia. The Minister would have taken with him advisers and assistants. He went abroad to examine health schemes around the world in order to try to find out how the Government could further patch up their scheme which was rejected both by the Parliament and the people, or to find a new scheme that they might be able to introduce. The fact that the Minister went overseas to look at all the other health schemes was an admission that he, his Party and the Government had rejected the idea of a health scheme as contained in the 2 Bills now before us, this Health Insurance Bill 1973 and the Health Insurance Commission Bill 1973. If that is not so why was it necessary to spend all that money, the taxpayers' money, in going overseas and investigating all the other schemes in order to try to find a better one? There certainly was no indication from that action that the Government was going to reintroduce the same rejected and discredited proposed legislation which was dealt with last year. 
I suggest that the conclusion is inescapable: These Bills are an election gimmick. They do not represent serious action on the part of the Government. We have heard the statement by the Minister for Social Security in the House of Representatives, which I quoted and in which he said that the Government was introducing this scheme because. health was an important matter for an election. I wonder also whether it is a matter of trying to use the rejection of this scheme in some other way than to provide some grounds for a double dissolution. The Government already has sufficient grounds to seek a double dissolution from the Governor-General. As has been indicated by the quotations I have read already from speeches by the Leader of the Opposition in this chamber,  as  well  as  from numerous other statements, the Opposition would welcome such a double dissolution. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 5.4S to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner and before we co-operated with  Senator Murphy  to enable him to introduce some Bills, I was referring to the basis upon which the Health Insurance Bill 1 973 and the Health Insurance Commission Bill 1 973 had been introduced. Both these Bills were introduced and rejected last year and discredited in the public debate which took place last year. I was examining the reason why these Bills might have been introduced again at this time after the announcement of certain action which would lead to an election. I had said that the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  had made quite clear in the House of Representatives the real reason for the re-introduction of these Bills. The real reason is political gimmickry, as an election gimmick, as a sham and as a fraud upon this Parliament. They were not introduced for the purpose of considering a real scheme for the health care of this nation, but rather so that the Government could gain what it thinks is some advantage out of the further rejection by the Senate of these Bills. And vote against them the Opposition will. 
It is exactly the same legislation which was introduced and rejected last year. Notwithstanding an expensive overseas trip by the Minister for Social Security to look at alternative schemes the Government has the hide to reintroduce these Bills unaltered. I wonder whether one could ever have regard to the Government's health proposals at any stage of an election campaign when one regards the general duplicity which has been employed in regard to this and some other actions. 
Let me refer firstly to a meeting which took place on 27 March in Melbourne. Some reference has been made to it already. We are told that this meeting took place with the knowledge and on the instruction of the Minister for Social Security,  Mr Hayden. His  senior officers, 

 Dr Deeble and  Mr Corrigan,  brought together in Melbourne a group of people to discuss a significant variation to the proposal in relation to health. At that meeting there was consideredcertainly with the Minister's knowledge and according to his senior officers at the Minister's instruction- by a number of people concerned what the Minister was prepared to do, or at least it was said, by way of significant variation of the health scheme. But did the Minister accept that? Apparently not. When he found that it had gone wrong and that the people involved were not prepared to accept his proposals, he got a spokesman, so-called, to deny his senior officers. I refer to the Sydney Morning Herald of 4 April 1974. This has been admitted by the Minister. The article reads: 
A dual system of national health insurance- with a Government commission and voluntary health funds providing cover- is proposed in a document circulated by a top Government health planner. 
The proposal would allow people to 'opt out' of taxfinanced Government insurance in insuring privately. It is a major compromise of the aims in the Government's Health Insurance Bill rejected by the Senate last year. 
The planner,  Dr J.  S. Deeble, one of the architects of Labor's universal health scheme, was criticised yesterday for having 'exceeded his brief by a spokesman for the Minister for Social Security,  Mr Hayden. 
The spokesman said that  Dr Deeble,  a special adviser to the Social Security Depanment, had no authority to commit the Minister- as he has done in the document- to proposed amendments to the scheme. 
The proposals in the document were  Dr Deeble  's and not  Mr Hayden  's, he said. 
I wonder what depths ministerial responsibility has reached when a Minister is prepared to at least acquiesce in, if not direct- I do not stay to enter a debate whether it was acquiescence or a direction, because I do not think it matters; the responsibility of the Minister is equal; I refer to the responsibility of a Minister who permits his senior officers to circulate a proposal on the basis, obviously, of his acceptance, which would be the impression given to the average member of the public outside the Parliament who received the document. They went to Melbourne in good faith to consider the proposals. Then the Minister turns round when he finds that his plans fall flat and denies his senior officers saying that they had exceeded their brief. Of all the contemptible actions a Minister can take I think probably the most contemptible is the finding of scapegoats for his own failures or inadequacies. This is apparently what happened in this case. 
How can anyone have any faith in the honesty and integrity of a government which just a fortnight ago called a meeting in Melbourne to propose significant variations to its health scheme and then wheels in before us this Bill, which is unaltered from the one rejected last year? It seems to me to point clearly, emphatically, to duplicity and total disregard of what might be called normal standards of conduct by a government. Let me refer also to a certain dust-up- I suppose it could be called that- which took place yesterday when, having regard to considerations of the morality, constitutionality and the general propriety of the actions of the Government in reintroducing this legislation. Yesterday the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was asked a question in relation to the situation in the Senate, that is, action being taken to object to or to vote against financial measures, appropriation Bills and the like. This is a matter which has received a great deal of publicity recently.  His  attention was drawn to a statement by  Senator Murphy,  made on 18 June 1970 in a debate on the States Receipts Duties (Administration) Bill 1970. As appears on page 2647 of Hansard,  Senator Murphy  said: 
In doing this the Opposition is pursuing a tradition which is well established, but in view of some doubt recently cast on it in this chamber, perhaps I should restate the position. The Senate is entitled and expected to exercise resolutely but with discretion its power to refuse its concurrence to any financial measure, including a tax Bill. There are no limitations on the Senate in the use of its constitutional powers, except the limitations imposed by discretion and reason. The Australian Labor Party has acted consistently in accordance with the tradition that we will oppose in the Senate any tax or money Bill or other financial measure whenever necessary to carry out our principles and policies. 
I simply restate that. I think it is something which is vital and fundamental to the understanding by the Australian people of the debate which has taken place in relation to matters such as this Health Insurance Bill and projected action in relation to certain Appropriation Bills all of which are relevant as being brought together in one debate. I restate what was then said.  Senator Murphy  said: 
The Australian Labor Party has acted consistently in accordance with the tradition that we will oppose in the Senate any tax or money Bill or other financial measure whenever necessary to carry out our principles and policies. 
That is what  Senator Murphy  said as Leader of the Opposition in the Senate on 1 8 June 1 970. 
But maybe,  Senator Wright  - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Brown)-  Order! I suggest that the introduction into this debate of future possibilities is out of order and is a subject matter of another debate rather than the debate on the Health Bill before the Senate at the moment. I realise there is a lot of scope in this debate. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, would you hear me in relation to the extent to which I can refer to these matters? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- As long as you can link your remarks to the Bill before the Senate you may continue. The debate gets a little too ragged otherwise. 
The case which I was putting is that the bona fides of the introduction of the Health Bill are related to the current political situation. It is my case to the Senate that the way in which we should regard the Bills, which were rejected last year, and in relation to which the Minister in charge of them has said in the other House that they are being reintroduced because, in effect, there is to be an election and we can look broader than one might normally look in that situation. I therefore wish to proceed but I shall have regard to any occasion when you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  think I have exceeded your ruling. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTSenator Rae, as long as you appreciate my ruling you may proceed. I expect that you will respond to my ruling. 
On 18 June 1970  Senator Murphy  also said: 
The Opposition has done this over the years, and in order to illustrate the tradition which has been established, with the concurrence of honourable senators I shall incorporate in Hansard at the end of my speech a list of the measures of an economic or financial nature, including taxation and appropriation Bills. . . . 
I emphasise the words 'Appropriation Bills'-  which have been opposed by this Opposition in whole or in part by a vote in the Senate since 1 950. 
On page 265 1 of Hansard of 18 June 1970 there is set out every measure which was opposed or voted against by the ALP, including appropriation Bills, in this chamber from 1951 until 1970 when the debate on the Bill then under discussion took place. That anyone could have the hide to say that the Opposition's attitude to this Bill is unprecedented is incredible. That anyone within the Australian Labor Party, within this present Government, could have the hide, after 168 occasions of such action of their part in the past 1 8 years, to say that the Opposition's actions on this occasions are unprecedented is almost beyond credence. Perhaps they still expect that after the Gair affair we will continue to believe in leprechauns. If there was one person embarrassed by it it was the Prime Minister who said yesterday: 
I remember that  Senator Murphy  tabled such a list in the Senate. 1 did not approve of him tabling it. I do not regard it as the Labor Party's attitude. 
The Prime Minister was referring to a tradition of action over 20 years in which the whole of the Labor Party in the Senate time and time again- 168 times- trooped across the chamber in unison to vote against measures such as this. The Prime Minister is obviously out of step with all members of his own Party in the Senate. 
He said also- and I thought this was a gratuitous insult which hardly showed that the Government was acting cohesively- 
I have not always agreed with  Senator Murphy  in the past and I did not at that time. 
He then went on to make the significant statement - 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 

 Senator Rae, I must insist that you debate the health Bill before the Senate at present. You have the right to debate it and to oppose it. Whilst it is true that you may be entitled to some latitude, if I might use that term loosely and broadly, that has been allowed in debates on this subject matter in the Senate, your remarks extend far and wide beyond the real issue before the Senate. I am sure that you will accede to my request that you do not go beyond the bounds of the Bill before the Senate at the moment. You are now introducing matters, in an anticipatory way, about what might happen in respect of other issues. I ask you to respect my wishes and confine yourself to the Bill which is in fact before the Senate now. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Order! I do not need any help from my colleagues. I am sure that I can handle this matter by myself. I am sure that  Senator Rae  will respond in the manner which I have requested of him. 
At all times I wish to cooperate and I shall co-operate with whoever is in the chair. I indicated to you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  the basis upon which I was putting my argument. You have now indicated to me that you think I have gone beyond what is reasonable. I shall leave the matter there. I shall return to make some comments which I think support the general points I am making about the bona fides of the Government in reintroducing this proposed legislation. In a document dated 20 March 1974, which is a document to which I referred some time ago and which no doubt is the cause of great embarrassment now to the Government, there is set out proposals for an alternative health scheme. The proposals were circulated by senior officers of the Government service who are denied, apparently, by the Minister. This document states: 
The Minister is prepared to amend the present program to allow those who prefer private treatment to 'opt out ' of the Government fund and to offset payments to private insurance funds against their liability for the health insurance levy. Specifically, this would mean . . . 
Then is set out what it would mean. How can a government, having circulated a document like that as late as 20 March, come in and expect us to receive, with any feeling that it is acting bona fide, a scheme which is exactly the same as that which was rejected before and which even the Government was prepared to amend and alter in significant ways? How can we have any faith in the bona fides of the Government? Let me continue, though, in relation to the bona fides of the Government in relation to health; and I limit it to health. On 10 August 1973 the Minister for Social Security,  Mr Hayden,  wrote a letter in relation to the operation of the health funds and the private hospital benefit tables which had been projected. He stated: 
The basis on which I would be willing to consider the introduction of a private hospital table is that, insofar as special contributors are concerned, Government special account liability should be limited to the fund benefits payable under the existing table for private ward charges in public hospitals. 
That made quite clear the basis upon which the Minister was prepared to vary the scheme and to introduce new private hospital tables. People, acting in the belief that the word of the Minister could be taken, proceeded to make significant alterations to comply with his requirements so that their proposition came within the conditions laid down. Those people again wrote a letter referring to the fact that the funds had, some time ago, put forward a proposal to cover the situation and that the relevant officers of the Minister's Department had offered the opinion that the proposal was acceptable. They were therefore writing to inquire when some decision could be anticipated in the matter. That was the content of a letter written in December. By January the Minister replied. In a letter dated 1 1 January 1974 he stated: 
As pointed out in your letter I have been concerned at the implications for the Special Account and although the further proposals submitted meet my condition - 
I pause to emphasise the words- although the further proposals submitted meet my condition regarding the limitation of Special Account liability, there are other aspects of the requirements of the National Health Act which need consideration. 
So 6 months after having led people to believe that they could act in a way and prepare a table and a proposal which would satisfy the Minister's conditions, he was then prepared to say: 
Although I recognise that you have completely met my conditions, I now impose new conditions'. Was he bona fide or was he finding excuses? The matter was taken further and the correspondence somewhat drearily proceeds; drearily from the point of view of anyone who believes that he might find action from this Government. One of the letters rather pathetically finishes:  (n the light of the above information we sincerely hope that you will make an early decision to approve without any further qualifications the introduction of the private hospital tabic as being entirely consistent with the explicit recommendations of the Senate Select Committee - 
Which all honourable senators will recall did a very good job in investigating the question of health and the health scheme-  and compatible with the Nimmo Committee recommendations. 
Then there is further correspondence again seeking some action out of this Minister. One of these letters states: 
. this association was left in no doubt that there are now no longer any 'technical' problems regarding the introduction of a private hospital table of benefits in NSW. lt was further understood by us that the matter now rests with you for a ministerial decision, and I am thus writting to ask if you can indicate to us if you are now able to make a decision on this matter. 
This is from the same association seeking some action from this Minister, a Minister who, as early as August last year, had set out the conditions under which he was prepared to agree to something. For 8 months thereafter he has shillyshallied and said: 'Although people have met the conditions I imposed I now want to impose new conditions'. Having used fatuous arguments about the Nimmo Committee and having failed to have regard to the Senate Committee's report the Minister simply does not act. But in what way does he eventually act? He called a secret meeting and later disowned entirely his senior public servants. Undoubtedly they acted with his knowledge and, one would say, undoubtedly with his acquiesence. We do not know whether they had his instructions. He disowned them and placed blame on them, which is a despicable action on the part of a Minister. He then refused to accede to a reasonable request from an association trying to improve the health scheme and to introduce a new table, although the conditions had been met. But what is the sole action which the Minister takes? He cynically reintroduced into this Parliament the same piece of legislation which was rejected last year, the same piece of legislation which he impliedly rejected when, early this year he went overseas for a month to try to find for himself a new scheme. In those circumstances is it any wonder that the Opposition will have some considerable pride in being able to retain its sense of propriety and say: 'If you want a double dissolution and you want to include this Bill in your request, we shall certainly do our part in providing a double dissolution because we shall vote against the proposal'. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What, if any, subsidies or other forms of assistance are, or will be, available to the owners and/or builders of new fishing vessels in Australia. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware of the concern expressed by many teachers and parents over the effect of the withdrawal of free milk for school children? Some weeks ago I raised this matter and the Minister for Primary Industry said that he would refer it to the Minister for Health and obtain an answer. I now ask: Will the Minister representing the Minister for Health let the Senate know what is the position in relation to this scheme or some alternative scheme in substitution for it? 

 - Mr President, I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Select Committee on Securities and Exchange, which was functioning immediately prior to the dissolution of the Senate on 1 1 April 1974, be re-appointed to enable the Committee forthwith to present its report (which was agreed to and in the process of being printed at the date of dissolution) and to conclude and table the 2 remaining chapters not at present included in the printed report. 
That the Committee consist of Senators Durack, Georges, Lawrie, Rae, Sim, Wheeldon and Wriedt. 
That, in preparing the final 2 chapters of its report, the Committee have power to consider the minutes of evidence and records of the Select Committees on Securities and Exchange appointed during previous sessions. 
That the Committee present its final report to the Senate as soon as possible but, in any event, not later than 30 September 1 974. 
That the foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far  as they are inconsistent with Standing Orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the Standing Orders. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I ask: Has the Minister's attention been drawn to reports of a statement made by  Mr Charles  Perkins, an Assistant Secretary in the Department of Aboriginal Affairs? Will the Minister inform the Senate whether he agrees with  Mr Perkins  that the Department of Aboriginal Affairs should become a statutory body outside the scope of politics and that white people should be phased out of the Department? If the Minister does not agree will he explain, either now or in a later statement, his reasons for not agreeing with  Mr Perkins? 
I would like to put forward some facts about this matter. It would help if we looked at the statistics. I think every honourable senator is aware of the statistics published in relation to the Senate. In the period from August to December 1971 the average length of question time was 82 minutes. The average length of question time in the period from February 1972 to June 1972 was 80 minutes. In the period from August 1972 to October 1 972 the average length of question time was 78 minutes. If we average those times we find that the average length of question time was 80 minutes. In recent times, as  Senator Lawrie  has said, that period has been reduced by one-quarter compared with the average length of question time during the 18-month period leading up to the change of government. For some time I have been concerned about the matter which  Senator Lawrie  has raised, and that is why when he raised it I was able to refer to these documents which have been under my seat for some months waiting for the subject to be raised. 
I join with  Senator Lawrie  in asking that the Senate reconsider the limitation of question time every day. I can understand that there may be days when the Government has business which it urgently wishes to get through, but I cannot believe that that applies every day as a reason to reduce question time. I would be the first to agree,  Senator Douglas  McClelland, if I may address you as the leader of the Government in the Senate at the moment, that there may be special occasions when it is perfectly justifiable to move for an early curtailment of question time, but not every day as a matter of practice. Honourable senators who wish to ask questions are precluded from the opportunity of doing so when they have a constitutional and democratic right to do just that. 
If we have a government which believes in open government, one of the most important aspects of open government is the opportunity for any honourable senator, from either side of the House, to ask questions. Some of us may think that some questions are not good while others may think that they are important. What it amounts to is that this is part of the democratic process. I believe this is an important aspect which should be reviewed. The practice appears to have grown up, particularly in recent times, of the Minister every day asking for question time to be curtailed after, at the most, an hour.  Senator Lawrie  said that this happened after 50 minutes today, and that represents a reduction of almost half an hour on the average length of question time in the 18 months preceding the change of government. I support what  Senator Lawrie  has said and I ask for the matter to be reconsidered. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Is it a fact that  Mr Justice  Woodward in his report on Aboriginal land rights said that his recommendations were being put forward as a basis for negotiation between Aboriginal councils and the Government, that Aboriginal people themselves must be fully consulted about any steps proposed to be taken and that an imposed white solution is unacceptable? If that is so, what, if any, steps are being taken to consult in the terms of the recommendation, who is being consulted and what form are such consultations taking? Will those consultations extend to Aborigines outside the Northern Territory, which was covered in the Woodward report? 
I simply assure the Senate that copies will be available tomorrow to be distributed at the time it is tabled in the chamber. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-The Opposition wishes to debate and discuss this most important report. In view of the exigencies of the day, after discussion with  Senator Cavanagh  I have indicated that I am agreeable to making my remarks at a later stage. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted: Debate adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. By way of brief preface I refer to the fact that yesterday the Minister said in reply to a question by me that the Woodward Aboriginal Land Rights Commission report was not being discussed with Aborigines or their organisations outside the Northern Territory. I now ask: In view of the fact that the Commonwealth has assumed responsibility in Aboriginal affairs in some States and is negotiating for the taking over of that responsibility in other States, will the Minister institute steps to arrange for those discussions to be extended to include all appropriate Aboriginal organisations so that their views may be given full weight in moving towards a national agreement on this question? If he will not, why will he not? 
Pursuant to leave given yesterday I table the interim report from the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange consisting of Part I, volume I, which is the report; Part 1, volume 2, which is the Committee's documents; and Part II, volumes I, 2 and 3, which are the transcript of evidence. 
Ordered that the papers be printed. 

 Senator RAE (Tasmania)- I seek leave to table the opinion of the Solicitor-General relating to the publication at this time of particular sections of the report. 
Did the Minister for Agriculture, in explaining to the Senate the proposed Apple and Pear Corporation, say on 6 December 1973 that the Corporation would consist of 9 part-time members, including an independent  chairman-  I emphasise the word 'independent' plus 4 members to represent growers, and other members? Is it a fact that the Minister has now appointed a chairman? Is it also a fact that far from being an independent person, that person, although undoubtedly expert and experienced, currently holds a senior executive position in a major fruit exporting company which is in direct competition with other exporters? If so, why has the Minister departed from the undertaking given to the Senate and, I understand, to the industry that the  chairman  would be truly independent? 
Does the Attorney-General agree that one of the important needs in the provision of a just court system for Aborigines is the availability of an adequate number of trained Aboriginal interpreters and the training of both the legal profession and magistrates in an understanding of Aboriginal culture, law and way of life where those legal practitioners or magistrates are involved in trials involving Aborigines? If the Minister does agree, what is he doing to provide for this need in the Northern Territory and so far as he can elsewhere? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for the Media, relates to a statement made by the Minister in his former capacity as Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. The question relates to the television reception in the St Helens area of Tasmania and the work which the Minister indicated would be undertaken to improve that reception. What steps are being taken to effect that improvement? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport concerning air passenger services to King Island and Flinders Island in Bass Strait which between them have a population of some 4,000 people with no sea passenger service. A subsidy which enabled a Fokker Friendship passenger service to operate to these islands has been withdrawn and as a result the Fokker Friendships have been withdrawn and a 6-passenger light aircraft substituted. In view of the fact that many people who have no alternative means of leaving those islands, for whatever reason, than by air and who are psychologically unsuited to flying in light aircraft, will the Minister take some steps to encourage Ansett Airlines of Australia to restore at least a weekly Fokker Friendship service to those islands to supplement the light aircraft service? 

 - Mr President, I seek leave to make a personal explanation relating to a statement made by the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland).  The statement referred to an Estimates Committee and to certain action connected with that Committee. 
I do not wish to detain the Senate but I point out that earlier today when I was unable to obtain an opportunity to ask a question I indicated to the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt),  representing the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby),  that I would like to raise a matter tonight relating to the textile industry and related in particular to the situation in Tasmania and related with even greater particularity to the situation in Launceston. The situation there is that as a result of the policy of the Government in imposing tariff cuts last year, which I do not wish to debate tonight, there is now an admitted situation where, as the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and  Mr Enderby  said in a joint statement dated 30 July: 
Imports of basic textiles have increased from 1972-73 to 1973-74 by 67 per cent and imports of clothing and accessories have increased in the same period by 94 per cent. 
As the Textile Authority report made quite clear, clothing imports are causing disruption in the Australian market. The Authority recommended that restraint measures be negotiated with the countries that are exporting those goods to Australia. The net result of it all, stated very briefly, is that more than 30 per cent of the very significant total work force in Launceston and the central-northern area of Tasmania has been laid off in the past few months as a result of the problems that exist in the textile industry. I believe that this is not a matter which the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  would take lightly. It is not a matter which any of us would take lightly. 
Tonight I do not wish to debate the politics of this question. I wish to raise the need for some urgent action to be taken. I believe that some time yesterday the honourable member for Bass  (Mr Barnard)  asked the Government to send an investigating team to Launceston, in a similar way to the way in which it sent a team to some country areas of Victoria, to see what can be done to overcome the problem in the textile industry in Launceston. That, I suggest, is the least that can be done. I seek from the Minister an assurance- to be given immediately or, at the very latest, tomorrow- that this action is being taken by the Government. I believe that it is somewhat absurd, in a city which is quite substantially based on the textile industry and in which alternative employment is not readily available, to find a situation in which large numbers of people are being put out of work and are having to apply to the Government for payment of what would have been their salary so that they can stay at home, when a little more positive action from the Government, pending the implementation of whatever steps it wishes to take, might keep them in employment, keep the industries in production and enable the Government to have time to sort out the problem. 
I acknowledge the fact that the Government has arranged for a team to go overseas to endeavour to negotiate under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade agreed reductions in exports from those countries which export to Australia. I acknowledge the fact that the Government already has taken some action to get Taiwan, which is not a member of the GATT, to reduce exports to Australia. But what I wish to impress on the Minister tonight is that in the meantime, while this is being sorted out- and we have known for months that this has been happeningpeople are being thrown out of work in Launceston and in other areas of Tasmania. People are being laid off in industries which may never be able to recover and, unless urgent steps are taken, those people may not be able to obtain alternative employment in that area. 
Therefore, I seek an assurance that an immediate special investigation will be undertaken in a similar way to the way in which an investigation has been undertaken in some areas of Victorianot that I hold any great hopes that the investigation will be successful, but at least it is one tiling which can be done immediately. I also ask the Government to consider urgently granting immediate support to the textile industry in this area pending some rationalisation of what can be done in the long term to save the employment of these people and the industries. Some of these industries have maintained employment and stability in this area of Australia for more than 100 years. It is very sad, I think, that a company which has been a textile manufacturer in northern Tasmania for more than 100 years is laying off people for the first time in the whole of its history. Rather than expand, the company suddenly has had substantially to contract. I want to impress on the Government the importance of this situation and to seek some assurance that urgent action will be taken. 
-The fact that we are debating this Commonwealth Electoral Bill for the fourth time is in itself an explanation of the chaotic position in which we find our economy, our society and our nation- a nation that was described in the Press yesterday as being on the brink of anarchy, a nation that is supposed by many to be tottering on the brink of economic chaos, a country with increasing unemployment, high and rising inflation and an incredible increase in the number of strikes. This has occurred because, rather than have the Parliament consider economic measures, the Government has placed economic management in its 'too hard' basket and concerns itself with electoral redistribution. The Government has charge of the business of the Parliament. The Government could have brought forward other matters if it regarded them as more important. It brought back the Bills which were made the subject of the double dissolution and it deliberately chose matters such as electoral redistribution rather than matters such as trade practices or conciliation and arbitration- matters about which the Government has complained that the Senate has not acted as it should have done. Obviously none of those latter matters was considered by the Government to be of high priority. 
The people of Australia already have had the opportunity to express their view about the importance they place on electoral redistribution in our present circumstances. They were given the chance in a referendum and they very clearly voted no. Yet today we find ourselves here, forced by this Government to debate again, for the fourth time, the question of electoral redistribution for the benefit of the Australian Labor Party. The honourable member for Grayndler and Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  has attacked the Australian Country Party which, as we know, represents many of the farmers of Australia. He has shown that his only interest and the Government's only interest in farming is in farming electorates. This matter has no relevance to solving any of the major problems of the day. 
As the honourable member for McPherson,  Mr Eric  Robinson, has said, the real importance of the Bill is that the Australian Labor Party sees it as a matter of its own survival as a government. On the present basis of distribution and the present system of arriving at that distribution, the ALP has won two of the last three elections. One would have thought that it might be content with that situation and prepared to say: 'In those circumstances we do not want to change it'. One would have thought that bearing in mind the fact that there has to be a redistribution following the census in 1976 it might also say: 'It is so close. Why change it now?' But I think the important point, as I believe has been made earlier in the day, is that the Government faces an election before that next redistribution would be through, and it wants to be able to redistribute to its own advantage before it has to face the electors again, because it knows what the situation is. It knows that the people of Australia are sick and tired of a government that puts economic management into its ' too hard ' basket. 
One may imagine that if we are to have redistributions based on the proposals contained in this Bill it could be necessary to have very frequent redistributions. The Government says, through its speakers here today and elsewhere , that it is really providing one vote one value. That simply is not true. There is no way that can be done. Not even daily redistributions would be able to provide that 
It is a sham, as was just said. It is a sham to say that this Bill or any similar Bill would provide truly for one vote one value. The real question is whether the plus or minus 10 per cent or the plus or minus 20 per cent discretion in redistribution is the better and the fairer. The arguments in relation to that have, I think, been put. From this side of the chamber arguments have been put effectively to suggest that 20 per cent is desirable and reasonable. Again I simply remind people that not only do we believe that that is reasonable but even the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in 1955 believed that it was reasonable. That was before he found it necessary to change his mind. Presumably that was something Caucus did to him as well. Can we trust this Government? 
Thank you very much. Perhaps somebody who says that we can trust the Government would tell us why it is that in relation to the redistribution in the Northern Territory the Government that supposedly believes in open government has not yet told us or anybody else how it will go about it. It has not told us the method of redistribution. It has not told us whether we will there have a true one vote one value or how Aborigines will be treated. We have not heard whether the redistribution will be on a basis of population or on a basis of voters. In fact, we are waiting to hear. Presumably it will be after the redistribution that we will be let into the secret of how the Government is going about it. Clearly the position is that this Government wishes to have a redistribution to its own advantage. As  Senator Withers  so eloquently put it this morning, how could anybody trust the Government? How could the mothers of pre-school children trust it? How could the textile workers in my home city of Launceston trust it? How could anyone suffering inflation trust it when it won an election just a few months ago and promised everyone faithfully that only Whitlam and his Government would be able to save their employment, cure inflation and provide $130m for preschool care and education? Not one of those things has happened in Australia; the very reverse has happened. 
Reference has been made to the situation in Tasmania and the equitable nature of the proposals that are made. At the moment, I simply remind members, 45 per cent of the population of Tasmania has no voice in the House of Representatives of Australia. Forty-five per cent is unrepresented, and it will not make it any better to make the variation in the quota plus or minus 10 per cent as opposed to plus or minus 20 per cent. Some attacks were made on the role of the Senate by none other than the great selfproclaimed democrat, the Prime Minister. He referred to the Senate white-anting democracy, but I simply remind him and others that the Senate has just been re-elected. It has been reelected on a fair and democratic basis and it has been re-elected with a job to do. It has been reelected to keep an eye on a government that the people of Australia obviously are not prepared to trust with the full power over both Houses. 
Reference has also been made to the question of a gerrymander. I thought it would be interesting to contemplate the origin of the word 'gerrymander'. Of course, as many know, it was named after Governor Gerry of Massachusetts in the United States of America who approved an electorate which was so distorted to his Party's advantage that it was in a peculiar shape, looking a little like a salamander. Now, let us bring the situation up to date. The Australian Labor Party, and particularly the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  wants very frequent redistributions- one next year and one in a couple of years time. Presumably he will go down in history as having provided the Dalymander. Let us consider for a moment the role of the Senate. I think  Sir Winston  Churchill is worthy of being quoted in this chamber. In November 1947 referring to the Parliament Bill then being debated in the House of Commons he stated: 
Of course, there must be proper Executive power to any Government, but our British, our English idea, in a special sense, has always been a system of balanced rights and divided authority, with many other persons and organised bodies having to be considered besides the Government of the day and the officials they employ . . .All this idea of a handful of men getting hold of the State machine, having the right to make the people do what suits their party and personal interests or doctrine is completely contrary to every conception of surviving western democracy. 
Yet that is what this Government, and in particular this Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  would have us believe should happen in this country. He would wish to abolish the Senate. He would wish to be able to gerrymander or Dalymander the electorates. He would wish to be able to denigrate the Senate in carrying out its constitutional function which has just been reinforced by the people of Australia in a fully democratic vote. I think that perhaps we can have regard to what Professor Keeton said in his book called 'The Passing of Parliament'. He stated: 
The regimes of both Mussolini and Hitler, it will be remembered, began in exactly the same way, and inasmuch as  Sir Stafford  points out that all opposition to government policy is to be treated as sabotage, it is clear that the dissolution of an effective parliamentary opposition would rank high on the list of priorities. 
This morning  Mr Whitlam  quoted  Senator Wright.  I also quote  Senator Wright.  In the Report of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review he is reported in this way: 
Opposition to any Government view in the Senate is no longer graced with the term opposing view. It is something to be disparaged. It is 'obstruction' by the Senate. 
I think that is the best explanation which can be given of why we have had attack after attack made upon the Senate during the debate today. This debate is irrelevant. This debate will not solve any of the problems of the country. This debate has been brought about solely by the selfinterest of the Australian Labor Party in endeavouring to entrench itself in a way which is in the interests neither of the nation nor of the economy which the Government is charged to administer. Let us concern ourselves with how this Parliament can benefit the nation and not just the Australian Labor Party. Let us get back to the real work. Let us have some proposals for economic management and community development. 
-The fact that we are debating this Commonwealth Electoral Bill for the fourth time is in itself an explanation of the chaotic position in which we find our economy, our society and our nation- a nation that was described in the Press yesterday as being on the brink of anarchy, a nation that is supposed by many to be tottering on the brink of economic chaos, a country with increasing unemployment, high and rising inflation and an incredible increase in the number of strikes. This has occurred because, rather than have the Parliament consider economic measures, the Government has placed economic management in its 'too hard' basket and concerns itself with electoral redistribution. The Government has charge of the business of the Parliament. The Government could have brought forward other matters if it regarded them as more important. It brought back the Bills which were made the subject of the double dissolution and it deliberately chose matters such as electoral redistribution rather than matters such as trade practices or conciliation and arbitration- matters about which the Government has complained that the Senate has not acted as it should have done. Obviously none of those latter matters was considered by the Government to be of high priority. 
The people of Australia already have had the opportunity to express their view about the importance they place on electoral redistribution in our present circumstances. They were given the chance in a referendum and they very clearly voted no. Yet today we find ourselves here, forced by this Government to debate again, for the fourth time, the question of electoral redistribution for the benefit of the Australian Labor Party. The honourable member for Grayndler and Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  has attacked the Australian Country Party which, as we know, represents many of the farmers of Australia. He has shown that his only interest and the Government's only interest in farming is in farming electorates. This matter has no relevance to solving any of the major problems of the day. 
As the honourable member for McPherson,  Mr Eric  Robinson, has said, the real importance of the Bill is that the Australian Labor Party sees it as a matter of its own survival as a government. On the present basis of distribution and the present system of arriving at that distribution, the ALP has won two of the last three elections. One would have thought that it might be content with that situation and prepared to say: 'In those circumstances we do not want to change it'. One would have thought that bearing in mind the fact that there has to be a redistribution following the census in 1976 it might also say: 'It is so close. Why change it now?' But I think the important point, as I believe has been made earlier in the day, is that the Government faces an election before that next redistribution would be through, and it wants to be able to redistribute to its own advantage before it has to face the electors again, because it knows what the situation is. It knows that the people of Australia are sick and tired of a government that puts economic management into its ' too hard ' basket. 
One may imagine that if we are to have redistributions based on the proposals contained in this Bill it could be necessary to have very frequent redistributions. The Government says, through its speakers here today and elsewhere , that it is really providing one vote one value. That simply is not true. There is no way that can be done. Not even daily redistributions would be able to provide that. 
It is a sham, as was just said. It is a sham to say that this Bill or any similar Bill would provide truly for one vote one value. The real question is whether the plus or minus 10 per cent or the plus or minus 20 per cent discretion in redistribution is the better and the fairer. The arguments in relation to that have, I think, been put. From this side of the chamber arguments have been put effectively to suggest that 20 per cent is desirable and reasonable. Again I simply remind people that not only do we believe that that is reasonable but even the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in 1955 believed that it was reasonable. That was before he found it necessary to change his mind. Presumably that was something Caucus did to him as well. Can we trust this Government? 
Thank you very much. Perhaps somebody who says that we can trust the Government would tell us why it is that in relation to the redistribution in the Northern Territory the Government that supposedly believes in open government has not yet told us or anybody else how it will go about it. It has not told us the method of redistribution. It has not told us whether we will there have a true one vote one value or how Aborigines will be treated. We have not heard whether the redistribution will be on a basis of population or on a basis of voters. In fact, we are waiting to hear. Presumably it will be after the redistribution that we will be let into the secret of how the Government is going about it. Clearly the position is that this Government wishes to have a redistribution to its own advantage. As  Senator Withers  so eloquently put it this morning, how could anybody trust the Government? How could the mothers of pre-school children trust it? How could the textile workers in my home city of Launceston trust it? How could anyone suffering inflation trust it when it won an election just a few months ago and promised everyone faithfully that only Whitlam and his Government would be able to save their employment, cure inflation and provide $130m for preschool care and education? Not one of those things has happened in Australia; the very reverse has happened. 
Reference has been made to the situation in Tasmania and the equitable nature of the proposals that are made. At the moment, I simply remind members, 45 per cent of the population of Tasmania has no voice in the House of Representatives of Australia. Forty-five per cent is unrepresented, and it will not make it any better to make the variation in the quota plus or minus 10 per cent as opposed to plus or minus 20 per cent. Some attacks were made on the role of the Senate by none other than the great selfproclaimed democrat, the Prime Minister. He referred to the Senate white-anting democracy, but I simply remind him and others that the Senate has just been re-elected. It has been reelected on a fair and democratic basis and it has been re-elected with a job to do. It has been reelected to keep an eye on a government that the people of Australia obviously are not prepared to trust with the full power over both Houses. 
Reference has also been made to the question of a gerrymander. I thought it would be interesting to contemplate the origin of the word 'gerrymander'. Of course, as many know, it was named after Governor Gerry of Massachusetts in the United States of America who approved an electorate which was so distorted to his Party's advantage that it was in a peculiar shape, looking a little like a salamander. Now, let us bring the situation up to date. The Australian Labor Party, and particularly the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  wants very frequent redistributions- one next year and one in a couple of years time. Presumably he will go down in history as having provided the Dalymander. Let us consider for a moment the role of the Senate. I think  Sir Winston  Churchill is worthy of being quoted in this chamber. In November 1947 referring to the Parliament Bill then being debated in the House of Commons he stated: 
Of course, there must be proper Executive power to any Government, but our British, our English idea, in a special sense, has always been a system of balanced rights and divided authority, with many other persons and organised bodies having to be considered besides the Government of the day and the officials they employ . . .All this idea of a handful of men getting hold of the State machine, having the right to make the people do what suits their party and personal interests or doctrine is completely contrary to every conception of surviving western democracy. 
Yet that is what this Government, and in particular this Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  would have us believe should happen in this country. He would wish to abolish the Senate. He would wish to be able to gerrymander or Dalymander the electorates. He would wish to be able to denigrate the Senate in carrying out its constitutional function which has just been reinforced by the people of Australia in a fully democratic vote. I think that perhaps we can have regard to what Professor Keeton said in his book called 'The Passing of Parliament'. He stated: 
The regimes of both Mussolini and Hitler, it will be remembered, began in exactly the same way, and inasmuch as  Sir Stafford  points out that all opposition to government policy is to be treated as sabotage, it is clear that the dissolution of an effective parliamentary opposition would rank high on the list of priorities. 
This morning  Mr Whitlam  quoted  Senator Wright.  I also quote  Senator Wright.  In the Report of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review he is reported in this way: 
Opposition to any Government view in the Senate is no longer graced with the term opposing view. It is something to be disparaged. It is 'obstruction' by the Senate. 
I think that is the best explanation which can be given of why we have had attack after attack made upon the Senate during the debate today. This debate is irrelevant. This debate will not solve any of the problems of the country. This debate has been brought about solely by the selfinterest of the Australian Labor Party in endeavouring to entrench itself in a way which is in the interests neither of the nation nor of the economy which the Government is charged to administer. Let us concern ourselves with how this Parliament can benefit the nation and not just the Australian Labor Party. Let us get back to the real work. Let us have some proposals for economic management and community development. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes. The previous  speaker, Mr Keating,  has referred to me by name and to a report which, by the Press, has been given partly my name. It is a report of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. He has referred to that report as a support for this legislation. That is, in my view, a misrepresentation. Our Committee, I believe, set out to be objective. 
-It is to be regretted that  Mr Keating  of the Australian Labor Party is not prepared to be equally objective. (Government supporters interjecting)- 
The report is, I believe, a very - 
-I do not propose to debate it. 
Thank you,  Mr Chairman.  That is all I wish to say. I claim that I have been misrepresented insofar as my name has been used in any way to support this type of legislation. I believe that the report to which reference has been made is a very strong case for reform of the securities industry, but not for the nationalisation of the mining industry. Any suggestion that I support the nationalisation of the mining industry through this legislation is a gross misrepresentation. 

 Mr KEATING (Blaxland)-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Opposition supporters- Apologise! 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. The previous  speaker, Mr Keating,  has referred to me by name and to a report which, by the Press, has been given partly my name. It is a report of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. He has referred to that report as a support for this legislation. That is, in my view, a misrepresentation. Our Committee, I believe, set out to be objective. 
It is to be regretted that  Mr Keating  of the Australian Labor Party is not prepared to be equally objective. (Government supporters interjecting)- 
The report is, I believe, a very - 
I do not propose to debate it. 
Thank you,  Mr Chairman.  That is all I wish to say. I claim that I have been misrepresented insofar as my name has been used in any way to support this type of legislation. I believe that the report to which reference has been made is a very strong case for reform of the securities industry, but not for the nationalisation of the mining industry. Any suggestion that I support the nationalisation of the mining industry through this legislation is a gross misrepresentation. 

 Mr KEATING (Blaxland)-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Opposition supporters-  Apologise! 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. By way of brief preface I refer to the fact that on 1 August last I sought an assurance from the Minister that urgent steps would be taken to assist the textile industry and its employees in Tasmania. I ask whether any steps have yet been taken. If so, what are they? 
My question is directed to the Foreign Minister. In answering a question on Tuesday related to the recognition of the Baltic States the Minister said: 
Australia did, however, consult a number of friendly countries beforehand to inform them of its intention to review its position on this matter, and neither then nor since has any criticism been raised by those countries of the course we proposed to follow.' 
I ask the Minister: What were the countries consulted? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report and the statement. 
This is a matter to which we would wish to address ourselves, but in view of the demands on getting legislation through I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) At what stage is the consideration of the request from a group of Municipal Councils in north-west Tasmania for funds to assist in the construction and development of the North West Regional Water Scheme. 
) When is it likely that a definitive answer will be given to the request. 
If there is likely to be further delay in providing a definitive answer, what is the cause of any such delay. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that a number of ships engaged in international trade take on ballast in polluted or potentially polluted waters overseas, and dump that ballast in ports in Australia. 
Are there any Australian regulations relating to the dumping of ballast from foreign ships. 
Is the Australian Government taking any steps to encourage the forming of international regulations to control the discharge of foreign ballast; if so, what progress has been made, and if not, will the Government consider taking such steps. 
asked the Minister representing  the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that a letter together with a copy of a number of speeches by the Prime Minister was circulated to 
Local Government Councillors during the period shortly before the May 18 election and referendum; if so, was that letter circulated to all members of Local Government bodies in Australia. 
How many copies of the letter were sent out and by whom were they sent. 
By whom was the letter prepared and what was the cost of the preparation and postage of the letters, and copy of the speeches. 
Who paid the cost. 
Is the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs aware that finance has been requested by the National Council of Aboriginal and Island Women for the payment of rental for the headquarters of the Council which is presently at 99 
King Street, Melbourne, a building called Aboriginal House? Finance was first allocated to the Council by the Victorian State Government but, following the assumption by the Commonwealth Government of control of Aboriginal affairs, the Council has been waiting to hear whether it can continue to operate from that building and whether finance will continue to be available, as it would have been under the Victorian Government's control. Is the Minister aware of the concern of the National Council at the failure of the Commonwealth Government to provide an answer and let it know what the future position will be? When will the Minister provide finance for the Council's headquarters so that it can continue to perform its very necessary role without the fear of being unable to have a permanent place from which to operate? 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Is it a fact, as alleged by the Director of Tourism in Tasmania, that the prospect of the large Pacific Area Tourist Association Conference being held in Tasmania in the near future, with an anticipated consequential increase of 25 per cent in Tasmania's tourist trade, is jeopardised because the Government is refusing to grant visas to representatives of the tourist industry in Taiwan to attend the conference? If this is so, and in view of the Minister's claim that he accepts the realities of the situation as justifying the Government's recognition of the annexation of the Baltic States by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, and as Taiwan has existed as a reality for more than 25 years, how can the Government justify this further attack on the interests of what must now be known as the beleaguered State of Tasmania? 
asked the Minister for Foreign 
Affairs in the Senate on 1 5 August, in relation to a statement made by the Minister in the Senate on 13 August that Australia did consult a number of friendly countries beforehand to inform them of its intention to review its position on the question of the de jure recognition of the incorporation of the Baltic States into the Soviet Union, without notice: 
What were the countries consulted? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. 
In the light of the recent very substantial increases in the Government approved shipping freight charges to and from Tasmania, and in the light of the very clear evidence available since the beginning of 1973 of the huge disability suffered by Tasmania, as demonstrated by the report of the Bureau of Transport Economics, precisely what further information is now required by the Government to enable it to reassess the position in order to ascertain whether any interim assistance to Tasmanian shipping is justified, as was announced by the Prime Minister last Friday? 
In speaking to the Bill to amend the law relating to conciliation and arbitration and especially to amalgamation of organisations, I do so in a way which is related but not absolutely limited to the proposal before us. I think we have all recognised, or at least most of us have recognised, that at the moment there are a number of problems associated with the operation of the trade union movement in Australia. Government senators have pointed to some of the problems which exist with the proliferation of unions and have suggested that their proposal for amalgamations will solve a number of those problems. Whilst totally agreeing, and I wish to emphasise this, on the importance of the essential role played by the trade union movement in the operation of the mixed economy which we enjoyed until the change of Government but which we now find is creating very considerable problems, I must say that it is about time that we as a community asked: What is the role of the trade union movement in Australia, how far does its proper role extend into the economy and into society, and are there structural changes which are desirable in relation to the unions? 
I emphasise that I make all these remarks with a basic belief in the importance of the retention of that for which trade unionism stands. I wonder about the extent to which a number of problems which we face in Australia the moment in trade unionism arise from the fact that trade unions are basically occupation oriented rather than industry oriented unions. I wonder whether the sorts of considerations which are set out from page 179 onwards in chapter 12 of the report of the Donovan Commission- the royal commission on trade unions and employers associations conducted from 1965 to 1968 in the United Kingdom- such as of the two types of multi-unionism and the problems which arise in trying to make a major change in the basic structure of trade unionism as it has been operating for some time, would indicate that it would be more desirable at least to hear a great deal more public debate taking place in the country, not with a view to destroying trade unionism in any way or for the purpose of union bashing but with a view to asking: How could they fulfil the accepted role more satisfactorily without the sorts of problems which exist and which are exemplified in the approach of the Government, which is saying at the moment that this Bill is necessary to overcome those problems, and the approach of the Opposition, which says that the present provisions will assist in overcoming the problems. 
I do not think anybody is denying that the problems exist, but I wonder whether either side is right in saying, on the one hand, that the existing provisions are adequate and will overcome the problems or, on the other hand, that the proposed provisions are right and will help overcome the problems. I have great reservations about whether the approach in Australia at the moment is leading towards the solution of some of these problems. I wonder whether in a country which as part of the general world trend is moving towards big government, big unions, big corporationsin other words, a country in which so many institutions are becoming bigger and bigger in terms of power, size and the impact they have on the society as a whole and on the national as well as the world economy- we are not going about it the wrong way by saying that we do not have to have regard to those developments and that if we amalgamate a few unions that is all we have to do. 
The world corporation is clearly something which is with us whether we like it or not. It is something which will become more significant in its impact on every national economy. Would it not then be better for us to say that if we are to have the development towards bigger unions we should be thinking about a trend towards more industry oriented unions which will be able to play a part in balancing the power which is being continually exercised by the big corporations and by government interfering- we will not debate whether it is desirable or not- more and more in the affairs of industry and in the affairs of the economy? I wonder whether it would not be better to be looking at that aspect rather than to be saying simply that we need to facilitate amalgamations. I wonder also whether the unions could not do a lot more than they have done so far to encourage public debate and awareness and to display their own awareness of the need at least to review the role and the operation of the trade union movement in our type of society. 
Thank you for the interjection. I doubt whether they could do it under the amending legislation. I doubt also whether there has been any indication from the Government so far of an awareness of the need for a review, from a conceptual point of view, of the role most desirably to be played by the trade union movement in a nation developing along the lines on which we have been developing, particularly whilst we have a situation in which clearly the public has, many members of the trade union movement have, and many employers have, grave reservations about the extent to which the operation of trade unions is satisfactory. Here again I do not want to engage in any way in a debate about the detail of this problem but there is public concern expressed about abuses. One alleged abuse is being investigated at the moment and there are numerous allegations of misuse of funds, the lack of accountability of some trade unions and the lack of democracy in the operation of trade unions- not in all unions but in some. They vary. 
There is also the problem of elections. One reads letters to the newspapers with great frequency these days about whether there should not be secret ballots for strikes, and dealing with other such questions. I believe that the Government has shown a grave lack of leadership in not promoting thought and debate on these questions. It is time for an increasing amount of consideration to be given to a review of the role of the trade union movement in Australia. Just as the public interest is not served by large corporations or, for that matter, small corporations which ignore the rights of consumers, the interests of the environment, the interests of employees or the interests of the national economy, so too there is ample evidence that the other major section of organised power outside the Government, that is the unions, is currently failing adequately to recognise the public interest. I repeat: Just as the public interest is not served by corporations which ignore the interests of consumers, the environment, the national economy, employees and others, there is ample evidence that the trade unions, that other major section of organised power, are currently failing adequately to recognise the public interest. They have demonstrated a preparedness to act in relation to foreign affairs and environmental matters by imposing green bans and taking other action which has caused severe loss, suffering and inconvenience to the general public, has damaged the national economy and generally has not been of any particular advantage to individual members of the union concerned. Therefore I suggest that one of the matters for very deep public consideration is the extent to which that is a proper role for the trade union movement as opposed to the involvement of the democratic system of parliament in that action. 
It is not good enough for Government speakers to say or to imply that apart from there being too many unions- a matter which could be overcome by the amalgamation procedure encompassed in the Bill before us- everything else in the garden is rosy. Huge numbers of members of the public and of the trade unions are unhappy, concerned and worried about the fact that there now happens to be an unbridled use of power in some instances, a misuse of power and a failure of the organisation both in its role and in its functioning. I suggest that we would be much better served as a country if more attention were being paid by the Government to these questions rather than its simply putting forward proposals to facilitate the amalgamation of organisations without anything further. 
In the absence of any better proposals I propose to support the Opposition in opposing this Bill. At the same time let me say simply that I would like to see fewer unions. I would like to see developments along that line. I do not see this Bill as doing more than facilitating the continuation of what is at the moment a system subject to severe criticism; not because of what it basically stands for, not because of the role it. is intended to play as part of a balancing of power within a mixed economy, but rather because of the fact that inadequate attention has been paid by the community generally and by the larger section of those directly involved, in not standing back and conceptualising for a period of time and then seeing what system can be made to work in relation to what we want, not what we have. 
I wish to refer relatively briefly to the somewhat remarkable allegations made last night by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to the Heavy Engineering Manufacturing Association. Those allegations and statements prove that  Mr Whitlam  has a serious lack of knowledge of the subject matter and an even more serious lack of sympathy for the problems confronting so many areas of Australia, including in particular the area of Launceston to which he referred specifically. The Prime Minister has petulantly attempted to defend the impossible in supporting his Government's tariff decisions, but in doing so he has found it necessary to attack his own ministerial colleagues, to attack his own Party and to attack many of the trade union leaders of Australia. In doing so he also attacked the member of his Government who represents the Launceston area,  Mr Barnard,  who, through a spokesman for his office on 9 September last, said: 'Steps have already been taken to reimpose higher tariffs'. This leads me to ask: Is  Mr Barnard  one of the Ministers who the Prime Minister says 'accept and peddle lies'? No one coming from Launceston would dispute the seriousness of the retrenchments in the textile industry and other industries in that area. The Prime Minister was grievously wrong in stating: 'There have been allegations that textile companies in Launceston have put off 900 people. The Department made an investigation. There were 360 laid off. ' That is what the Prime Minister said last night. Regrettably, he was so very wrong. 
Since 1 May of this year tariff cut induced retrenchments have been almost continuous. One textile company alone, that is Coates Patons (Aust.) Ltd, has retrenched 55 1 employees up to today. The figures were checked by me today and they show that from 1 May when there were 1,642 employees the company is now down to 1,091 employees, a reduction caused solely as a result of the Government's tariff policies and its cutting the quotas. There has been a reduction of 551 employees. 
Another Launceston textile company which,  Mr President,  would be well known to youThyne Bros Pty Ltd- has virtually closed. It had approximately 100 employees. A few only are retained there pending the sale of the premises. Another company in Launceston in the textile industry and a large employer, Kelsall &amp; Kemp (Tas.) Ltd, has retrenched a large number of employees. It has tried to defer greater retrenchment by sending staff on leave. I was not able to check out Kelsall and Kemp today but the approximate number is 115. By now it may be greater. The Textile Workers Union in Launceston says that the figure for retrenchments is over 900 in Launceston alone. That statement was made before a further 100 employees were retrenched last Friday. So that one can take the Textile Workers Union statement as being that in Launceston about 1,000 textile workers have been retrenched as a result of the Government's policies. 
Yet  Mr Whitlam  in making his wild accusations clearly called  Mr Holden,  the secretary of the Textile Workers Union in Tasmania, a liar. Presumably he is one of those who comes within  Mr Whitlam  's broad accusation of union leaders who are, using  Mr Whitlam  's words, in collusion with multi-national companies.  Mr Holden  would certainly be entitled to join with all others who are involved in attempting to get government action on Tasmania's problems in condemning the Prime Minister for his ignorance, arrogance and lack of sympathy. It is disturbing to know that this Government has made decisions which have been based on a false understanding, if one accepts the Prime Minister's own words. Last night the Prime Minister referred to claims about unemployment in the textile industry in Launceston. He then went on to state: 
. I hope I don't react too bitterly when I say that that sort of fallacious allegation destroys some of the cases that are put to us. 
The Prime Minister had just referred to the allegation that there are some 900 unemployed in Launceston as a result of retrenchments in the textile industry. It is a fact beyond dispute that about 1,000 former employees of textile companies in Launceston have been put out of work as a result of tariff policy induced retrenchments. If the Government has made decisions which are based upon a false belief that there are only 360 employees retrenched, obviously those decisions have been fallaciously reached. Those decisions are certainly most unfortunate in their impact upon that area of Tasmania. 
To give some idea of the seriousness of the situation I shall cite some information which was given to me last Friday by the employment officer in Launceston. On Friday the actual number of unemployed was 1,300, and was rising quite rapidly. That figure did not include 100 people who were put off that day by Coates Patons and a further twenty who were retrenched from Repco Auto Parts (Tasmania) Pty Ltd. I understand that other retrenchments also took place that day. This is all the result of either the tariff policies or the Government's general economic policies which are creating such havoc in this country. It appears therefore that there is a lack of understanding on the part of the Government and certainly on the part of the Prime Minister as to what in fact is happening. I trust that those members of the Australian Labor Party who come from Tasmania and who have its interests at heart will ensure that the Prime Minister is kept properly informed of the true situation. 
I trust that  Senator Grimes,  if he has not yet done so, will take the first opportunity to inform the Prime Minister unless, of course, he does not agree that I have correctly outlined the serious situation in Launceston. I presume that in that event he will speak, and let us know what his views are. Otherwise I will take it that he does agree.  Mr President,  I just ask: Is it that  Mr Barnard  and  Mr Duthie,  2 honourable members in the House of Representatives who represent that area, have not adequately put the facts to the Government and to the Prime Minister or is it that the Prime Minister just does not believe them? On the face of it it must be one or other of those 2 things. In either event, it is clear that this squabbling, arrogant, heartless government has no understanding of what its policies are doing to the people of Launceston. I protest as strongly as I can at actions which are based upon a misunderstanding and at false accusations which are made about the leaders of the textile industry, both on the company side and on the trade union side. These false accusations have been made with gay abandon by the Prime Minister who holds the highest office in the land. If ever a man deserved censure for his irresponsibility which arises out of those statements it is the Prime Minister. 
No senator shall use offensive words against either House of Parliament or any member of such House, or of any House of a State Parliament, or against any statute, unless for the purpose of moving for its repeal, and all imputations of improper motives and all personal reflections on members shall be considered highly disorderly. 
What I am saying is that  Senator Rae's  remarks come squarely under standing order 418. 

 - Mr President, in the spirit in which you ask me to approach the matter, that is, the spirit of celebrating what I regard as an important event in my life- my birthday- I simply indicate that exception was taken long after I had used some words about the Prime Minister. I used them also about the Government. I withdraw what I said insofar as I made any unfair imputation about the Prime Minister and I ask to be allowed to proceed with the other points which I wish to make. I wish to quote some of the words of the Prime Minister and I presume people may judge for themselves whether they are insulting or offensive. 
I quote from the transcript of the tape recording taken of the Prime Minister's speech last night at the meeting of the Heavy Engineering 
Manufacturers Association. I will read the relevant parts of the transcript which I believe do not omit anything which would change the sense of what was said. The Prime Minister said: 
But I do get a bit irked, not with your membership, not with this association, but with some others that spread panic. 1 suppose I might as well cite the textile industry. 
He then gave an example to which I do not wish to refer and he went on to state: 
. and recently, I haven't read the report in detail, but I had a glance at it today, Clyde Cameron showed it to me, there 've been allegations that textile companies have had to put off 900 people in Launceston. The department made an investigation. There were 360 laid off. 
Gentlemen, I hope I don't react too bitterly when I say that that sort of fallacious allegation destroys some of the cases that are put to us. 
He then went on to give an instance related to the motor car industry and continued: 
The general point I want to make is that if you're going to influence me, I must confess that I have colleagues that are more easily influenced, but if you're going to influence me at least stick to the facts. I'm a bit jack of people that blackguard us with lies and have nothing but contempt for those that accept and peddle lies and my own colleagues are, in many cases, among them. And one of the most remarkable developments is that in this field how much collusion there is between multi-national companies and Australian trade union officials. 
That is the end of the quote. 
I note  Senator Georges'  interjection. I can well understand both his disappointment with the Prime Minister and, in fact - 
I am sorry. I meant  Senator Poyser.  I certainly do not want to start anything that goes further than making a response to what  Senator Poyser  said. 
There are some differences. I simply draw attention to the fact that those are the words of the Prime Minister. They are there for anyone to read and to determine how they should be categorised. In my submission, they were quite clearly wrong and unfounded statements. The facts are clear. The seriousness of the retrenchments in Launceston has reached a stage at which urgent Government action is required. The position goes far beyond the statements by the Prime Minister that really no action is necessary. That was the meaning of what he said last night. Such a statement must be irksome to those who have tried hard to get action taken by this 
Government to overcome the disastrous effects of the policies in which the Government has engaged. 
I take this opportunity to draw attention to only one other matter. No doubt the Minister will take it up again in due course. It is one of the practical problems arising from retrenchments and the retraining program. A large number of the textile industry employees were members of their companies' medical benefits schemes. Whilst they were with the companies they obtained medical coverage and benefits. But since they have been retrenched, they do not have that coverage any longer. Although they may be paid the average wage they have received for the previous 6 months and be entitled to that for a 6-month adjustment period, they do not receive anything in relation to medical benefits. I do not think that many of them realise that they are not covered or that they have to take out cover at extra expense to themselves. This is a matter which has not been covered by the Government and I invite the Government's attention to it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
May I ask a supplementary question just to seek an answer to the question that I asked? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. By way of brief preface I refer to the fact that on Monday evening the Prime Minister made accusations that people had peddled lies in relation to the seriousness of the unemployment situation in the Launceston area. I ask: As it is now demonstrably clear that the Prime Minister's accusations were totally unfounded and inaccurate, will the Prime Minister apologise to those who fell within his sweeping accusations and in particular to the Tasmanian members of both the Liberal and Labor Parties, including in particular  Mr Barnard  and also the State Secretary of the Textile Workers Union,  Mr Holden,  and to the management of the Tasmanian textile companies, all of whom came within the accusations of the Prime Minister of being involved in lying and collusion? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Will the Minister endeavour, as a matter of urgency, to obtain and, if possible, table today the report made by the task force which recently investigated unemployment in the Launceston area? 
My question is. directed to the Minister for Agriculture. Bearing in mind the problems of the Tasmanian apple industry and the importance of obtaining new markets for that industry, I ask: What progress has been made in negotiating with Japan for the entry of Tasmanian apples into the market in Japan since April of this year when the Minister expressed some optimism? 
I wish to speak very briefly tonight- and I emphasise the word 'briefly '. I am glad that  Senator Bishop  is in the chamber. I simply wish to refer to the fact that I have referred on a number of occasions to the unemployment situation in Launceston. I have referred firstly to the need for a task force examination of the problems of unemployment in Launceston particularly in relation to the textile mills. Last week I requested in the Senate that a copy of the report of the task force be tabled or made available. I wish to emphasise that I am quite certain that  Senator Bishop  did everything he could. In fact, he arranged with  Senator Wriedt  to contact me in relation to this matter. But I raise the fact that still the report is not published, still I have not received a copy and still unemployment continues to rise in Launceston. The people of that city are anxious to see the details of that report, to consider it and to act upon it. It is a matter of daily importance. I simply say in the interests of open government, as espoused by the present government, and in the interests of endeavouring to overcome the problems in Launceston, I urge the PostmasterGeneral  (Senator Bishop)-  I know he has taken action in the past and I make no criticism of his action- to take up again with the responsible Minister in the other place the publication of this particular report at the earliest possible moment. I again request that the report be made available to me. 
I wish to contribute briefly to this debate. Firstly, I support the general views which have been expressed by various Opposition speakers and I wish just to cover a couple of points. It seems to me to be fundamental that the Senate should approach this question first from the point of view of what is the role of the Senate. Is it solely a mimic, a reproduction, of the House of Representatives or is it intended to be under the Constitution and by constitutional practice a different House? Is it intended to be a House with a separate role, a House with a primary role as a House of review, rather than a House associated with the executive government? In my view the Senate clearly is intended to be, ought to be and can operate successfully as a House of review, a House which is concerned not so much with policy issues but rather with the function of having a second look at the way in which government policy is being carried out and the way in which government itself is being carried on. It has the opportunity to fulfil what I would regard as the most important function of all- that is, the committee functioninstead of this rehashing of second reading debates, which tends to be the time consumer of the Senate, in relation to matters of policy which have already been fully debated in the House of Representatives. We do that instead of getting down to the Committee consideration of legislation, whether that consideration be in the Committee of the Whole or whether it be by particular committees of the Senate set up to examine the detail of a Bill, the detail of government estimates or the detail of government administration. 
I would certainly wish to take up the points made by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack in relation to the importance of the opportunity which is available to members of this chamber to have direct contact with the Public Service by way of being able to ask questions and obtain information as to what is going on in the actual administration of government policy, as opposed to the formation of it. I believe that that opportunity is welcomed by responsible members of the Public Service. It is welcomed by responsible members of the Senate who regard the Senate as being other than a rubber stamp to the House of government or, alternatively, a place which simply regurgitates debates similar to those which take place in the House of government. 
I believe that it is becoming increasingly important that this chamber should fulfill on behalf of the public of Australia a watchdog role in relation to government in order to ensure that the public, through its members of the Senate, has an opportunity to ask questions as to what is going on and to obtain answers to those questions in the light of the ever increasing extent to which the Government, the bureaucracy, the Public Service, or whatever term one wishes to use, is manifesting itself in Australian society. It has become all powerful and is increasing in its significance. The increase in the number of statutory corporations, the tremendous increase in the extent to which public funds are directed towards these institutions and the effect which they have on society are things which need some check and some auditing on behalf of the people of Australia. I believe that that is one of the primary roles which the Senate has to play. It is not a matter of its being an embarrassment or otherwise to the Government. The Government does not rest in this House. The Government rests in the other House. Each and every senator has a responsibility to fulfil a role on behalf of the people. Unless we set up the Estimates Committees the opportunity to fulfil that role will be very severely curtailed. 
I suggest that there is no good reason why any honourable senator should not support  Senator Withers'  motion. Various members of the present Government when in opposition had good reasons for being keen to set up Estimates Committees in the past. I fail to understand why they have had such a change of mind now that they are in government, unless it be simply that they wish to cover up in some way and prevent the Australian people from having an opportunity, through their representatives in the Senate, to ask questions of both Ministers in the Senate, to ask questions of both Ministers and members of the Public Service. Unless that is their reasoning, there is no logical reason for their not supporting the motion. I shall certainly be supporting the retention of the Senate Estimates Committees system. Notwithstanding the fact that my leader has just said that he would expect me to support the motion, I would do it anyway. 
I present the following petition from 29 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
that for the exercise of complete religious freedom and for the promotion of a liberal and egalitarian society, Church and State need to be kept separate. 
that this principle is recognised in Section 1 16 of the Australian Constitution. 
that the taxing of any citizens to propagate or support any religion is contrary to this principle and a violation of human rights. 
Your petitioners humbly pray that Part 1 1, Section 3, of the proposed Bill of Human Rights, which now reads: 
No one shall be subject to coercion which will impair his freedom to have or to adopt a belief or religion of his choice. be amended to read further: and no revenue derived in any way from any Australian citizen shall be appropriated by the Australian Government, or by a State Government, or by a Municipal Government, for the propagation or support of any religion. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-The Opposition will certainly not oppose the Bill but wishes to debate it. There are many matters to which we wish to refer in relation to it and in relation to the seriousness of the situation in Tasmania. In accordance with the normal procedure, I move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
By way of preface to a question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, I refer to the fact that over a period of several months I have raised, firstly, a request for a task force to be sent to Launceston to investigate and make recommendations relating to the unemployment problems in the textile and other industries there. Secondly, I have requested on several occasions the publication of that report. I now ask: Will the report be made available to the Senate and all those concerned with overcoming the problems of both the people and the industries in the Launceston area which has been adversely affected as a result of Government policies? 

 -Mr President, this Bill is principally associated with a matter similar to that referred to in the Australian Tourist Commission Bill. The Opposition will not be opposing either Bill but will wish to make some comments in relation to them. I suggest for the consideration of the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  that the  2  Bills be dealt with in a cognate debate when they come on! On that basis I seek an adjournment of this bill also. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Rae)  adjourned. 
In relation to this Bill it is my suggestion that we have a cognate debate involving the States Grants (Universities) Bill  1 974  and the Universities Commission 
Bill. I suggest to the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  that that course be followed. 
The Opposition does not oppose either of these Bills and will support their speedy passage. My colleague,  Senator Baume,  will speak in relation to certain aspects of the States Grants (Universities) Bill. I make no further comment than to say that this particular piece of legislation is to provide further funds in relation to the expansion of university activities in certain areas. The Opposition, when in Government, took steps to establish the Australian Universities Commission. It took steps also to upgrade universities substantially. As a matter of fact, I think that one of the matters of which we can be justly proud is steps which we took to create in Australia a system of funding of universities and the development of opportunities for university education and for university research and academic life. This Bill carries forward the concept which we introduced when in Government. The Opposition certainly supports it. 
In relation to the Universities Commission Bill there are  2  bases on which changes are sought. The first involves an additional full time deputy chairman for the Commission. With the substantially increased work which the Commission has to undertake and with the importance of the work which it has to undertake as I have already mentioned- bearing in mind the fact that it was the Opposition Parties when in Government which created this Commission- we entirely support that it should have available to it that membership which is necessary for the Commission to carry out its very important functions. The Opposition certainly supports the recommendation that there should be an additional full time deputy chairman. We will support that part of the Bill wholeheartedly. 
However, I express a reservation about the second part of this particular Bill which alters the definition of 'university ' in the principal Act- the Australian Universities Commission Act- to restrict the meaning of the word to institutions established by Australian and State parliaments. Whilst I in no way suggest that there should be an open go for universities to blossom whenever anyone feels they would care to create the university of Sidi Barrani or whatever it may be in any part of Australia, I do not like the idea of the door being closed so that the only type of universities which are possible are those which are in effect run by the State. They are and remain semi-autonomous bodies in Australia and it is highly desirable that they should continue to be semi-autonomous bodies. The opportunity should be available in appropriate cases for what might be regarded as private universities or other types of universities to be created. 
Of course, we are concerned to ensure that adequate standards prevail. Of course, there must be a need for legislation approving the creation of a university. It must be subject to some form of supervision by the Parliament and by the executive government. But I wish to take this opportunitywhilst in no way opposing this BUI- to record that the Opposition does not want to be taken as supporting the idea that all universities must forever and a day be State run universities. The private function ought to remain available. The Opposition seeks to place that caveat upon our support of this particular legislation. 
This was referred to in greater detail in the debate which took place in the House of Representatives. I support the views expressed in the other place by the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  who dealt in particular with this aspect of it. I simply make reference to that as going further in the explanation of the attitudes which I express. So that this matter may be expedited I make no further comments although I do not wish that to be taken in any way as expressing a disinterest in the subject matter but rather an interest in getting the Bills through this House as soon as possible so that the money may flow and the changes may take place in the interests of the advancement of education. 
I wish to refer briefly to a meeting which took place in the city of Launceston today. It was organised by a number of trade unions and supported by the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Industries. It was attended by some 500 people. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  or his representative had been invited to that meeting; so too had been the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  or his representative, and other members of Parliament. As I, representing the Leader of the Opposition, was the only member of Parliament present, I undertook to make known to the Senate the resolutions which were carried unanimously at that meeting, and I do so. The first resolution, which was a major resolution, reads as follows: 
This meeting of citizens of Tasmania calls on the Australian Government to pay due regard to the unemployment problems which affect Tasmania more than any State in Australia. 
We express grave concern at the economic crisis which is developing, with particular emphasis on rising unemployment and inflation. 
We are concerned at the increase of both the above factors throughout Australia, but we draw to the attention of the Government that it is and has been a historic fact that Tasmania has always suffered unemployment in excess of the Australian average. At present it is far in excess of the Australian average. 
We call on the Government to immediately inject funds into those industries which are in need of immediate assistance, and are also well established in Tasmania. The present Government policies are driving long established companies to the wall, with resulting unemployment. The result of such a policy in Tasmania will be that people will have to move to areas where employment might be available. This will result in further centralisation of the population. Unless employment is available in Tasmania, people will leave; this is inevitable. 
This meeting declares that it is totally opposed to any policy which will result in people leaving Tasmania, irrespective of the government which is responsible for that policy. 
We call on the Government to equalise transport costs, so that Tasmanian industries are not at a disadvantage to their mainland counterparts because of their location in Tasmania. 
We call on the Government to adjust transport costs into, out of, and within the State on an equitable basis so as to allow Tasmanian companies to compete on equal terms with their competitors on the mainland and overseas. 
We call on the Government to build ships for its own shipping service so that Tasmania can enjoy a more efficient, regular and continuing service. 
We call on the Government to make use of the resources of the Australian Industries Development Commission to assist in ensuring employment in established industries, and also to develop other labour intensive industries. 
We call on the Government to adapt its policies so as to guarantee markets for goods produced in Australia, rather than allowing excessive imports. 
We call on the Government to introduce controls over all types of imports so as to protect the jobs of Australian workers, particularly those who are employed in the established industries which are located in decentralised areas, and above all we call for a fair go for Tasmania and Tasmanians. 
That motion was moved by the secretary of the Launceston Trades Hall Council and was seconded by the secretary of the Chamber of Industries. It was carried unanimously. A further motion was carried. It reads: 
That this meeting calls upon the Federal Government to forthwith publish the report of the task force which inquired into unemployment in the Launceston area. 
That motion was moved by me and it was seconded by the  president  of the Chamber of Commerce. It was carried unanimously. A further motion was moved which reads in the following terms: 
That this meeting calls upon employers to recognise that they have social responsibilities to the communities in which they operate, and that the retrenchment of workers as a means of maintaining or increasing profit levels is an abnegation of these responsibilities. 
Further, that this meeting condemns the current practice by manufacturers, particularly in the textile and clothing industries, of selling, in competition with their own locally produced goods, imports from cheap-labour countries in which they own plants. 
I believe that motion was moved by a  Mrs Thorne,  but I am not certain. I do not know who seconded it. It was not carried unanimously but it was declared carried. They are the motions which were carried at the meeting today. I think it is also relevant to inform the Senate that the Australian Secretary of the Australian Textile Workers Union,  Mr Hughes,  spoke at the meeting. It will give some idea of the seriousness of the mood of the meeting which I think will impress itself upon the Government if I quote but one part of what he said. He stated: 
I cannot see any person employed in the manufacturing industry supporting a return of this Government at the next election. That is a shocking thing to say but . . . 
He went on to explain that he felt he had to say that. That was said by the Australian Secretary of the Australian Textile Workers Union who, as he mentioned at the meeting, is also a member of the executive of the Australian Labor Party in Victoria. He estimated that by the end of October the loss of employment in the textile industry in Australia will be in excess of 40,000 in that one industry alone. I hope the Government will treat as serious the unanimous view of those people gathered in Launceston today. I hope we will obtain a considered reply. I do not expect the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  who in this chamber represents the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby)  to respond tonight. But I seek to have him respond at the earliest opportunity and preferably this week. 
I wish to speak briefly to this motion. As the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  said, this is a most important Bill. It is introducing something which in concept we certainly support, but I seek from the Minister some time for the Opposition to consult with the appropriate interested bodies to see how the Bill provides for the requirements of the people concerned. So in supporting the formal motion that the debate be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting, I ask that the debate be not brought on for at least 2 weeks. 

 Senator CAVANAGH (South AustraliaMinister for Aboriginal Affairs)- in reply- I think we can comply with that request. It is not my desire to hurry this Bill through. The programming of the business of the Senate is now in the hands of  Senator Douglas  McClelland. I shall talk with him and do what I can. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 -Mr Deputy President, let me assure  Senator Willesee  who just expressed his disbelief that he should see the previous Bill go through the chamber so quickly and without a great deal of debate, that he will not find himself overwhelmed with disbelief by that course being repeated because the Bill which we now wish to debate - 
I am sorry, I thought I heard the Minister say it. That view was expressed by  Senator Cavanagh  to an extent and I thought that I heard  Senator Willesee  also say it as he walked into the chamber. I simply say that having seen the Australian National Line ships put smoothly across the waters of Bass Strait, we now find ourselves in the position where we are dealing with the States Grants Bill which affects Tasmania and provides for the sum of $ 15m to be granted by the Commonwealth to the State. As  Senator Marriott  indicated, we were most anxious that the Bill relating to the ANL should go through immediately and that there should be no delay in debating the measure when there would be the opportunity to debate related matters on this the following Bill. 
Without wishing to spoil the atmosphere in any way I should like to refer to some of Tasmania's problems, not the least of which- in fact, probably the greatest of which- is the Federal Labor Government. One finds that this is the case particularly when one remembers that just recently we have had all sorts of helpful contributions from the leading members of that Government. After all, it was the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  whose contribution to the problem of unemployment in the textile industry in Launceston was to accuse those of us on both sides of the chamber, and those trade union leaders, who have expressed concern about increasing unemployment in the textile industry in Launceston, of peddling lies. He accused certain of the trade union leaders of being in collusion with multinational corporations. Such was his misunderstanding, his lack of knowledge of the problem that he made a complete fool of himself by claiming that the figures to which reference had been made were wrong. They are demonstrably correct, and I have already referred to that matter in this chamber. I simply repeat that the Prime Minister's disinterest in Tasmania was manifested by the manner in which he made that false accusation about some of his own colleagues, other members of this Parliament and members of the trade union movement. 
Then the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  visited Tasmania.  His  reaction to some of the problems of Tasmania was to tell Tasmanians to stop whinging. He claimed that we were all on velvet. Apparently he has some strange ideas about what it is like to be on velvet, or certainly he has a different idea from the one which I have. As for telling us to stop whinging, I am afraid that I am one example of someone who does not intend to stop because the  Deputy  Prime Minister tells me to stop. Today I propose to refer to a number of matters where I believe that Tasmania is being disadvantaged as a result of the failure of this Government to have any real idea of what the needs of Tasmania really are. 
I remind the Senate that this is a Government which is sufficiently insensitive to the needs of individuals to have increased personal income tax this year, in this year's Budget, by an amazing 46 per cent. I think that a lot of people have not realised what this will mean to them in their real take home pay. Of course, those people are from throughout Australia, and they include Tasmanians. But unfortunately fewer and fewer Tasmanians each week will be affected by this measure because the number of unemployed is increasing so rapidly. I will simply refer to today's 'Mercury'. The headline reads: 
Our jobless worst. Total now stands at 4,937. . . . constitutes 3. 14 per cent of the labour force. 
Of course, it is a substantially higher percentage in the Launceston area which has been affected by the measures which the Government took in relation to the textile industry. I simply remind the Minister and the Senate that there is no doubt as to who is to blame for the situation, because the blame has been accepted by the Government. After all, it was  Senator Wriedt  who on 1 August last, when I had raised the problem concerning the Launceston area and asked for a task force to be sent to Tasmania, said, as reported at page 772 of Hansard: 
Of course, the problem that he - 
Referring to me-  raises flows from the Government's decision last year to reduce tariffs across the board by 25 per cent. 1 do not want to canvass the rights or wrongs of that decision either; but when the Government took the decision it was aware that there would be repercussions in certain manufacturing industries in Australia, and it was anticipated that the textile industry, in particular, would be affected. There is a major textile industry in Launceston and it has been affected as a result of the Government's decision. 
There was the clearest indication by the Minister for Agriculture,  Senator Wriedt,  of an acceptance. I pay him due credit for that. I think that  Senator Wriedt  has received credit on other occasions for being prepared to admit what has happened and for not attempting to prevaricate. In this instance he clearly accepts that the problems of Launceston are directly the fault of the present Labor Government. 
Not only have  Mr Whitlam  and  Dr Cairns  made their various contributions to making Tasmanians feel a little happier because the Government is aware of their problems;  Mr Jones  has too. I know that he has acted in a responsible way in accepting amendments to certain legislation in recent times, as was referred to by  Senator Marriott  a little while ago. But he did not seem very responsible when he said in Hobart some time ago, in effect, that he was not very interested in Tasmania because there were more votes in Newcastle than there were in Tasmania. I believe that that attitude has been exemplified in his approaches to a number of Tasmanian problems. It was exemplified when he said just recently that he did not agree with any area receiving special transport consideration. Apparently he has been persuaded by  Senator Devitt  and others to go back on that attitude. But this is clearly the idea which  Mr Jones  has in his ministerial capacity. 
None of us has been very successful in being able to change his mind about another matter to which I shall make reference. This is the Bass Strait islands air transport situation which, as  Senator Devitt  no doubt is well aware, is causing considerable disquiet among the people on both Flinders Island and King Island. This situation has arisen because of the Government's action in withdrawing a subsidy which had been paid by the former Liberal-Country Party Government to ensure the maintenance of air services by suitable aircraft to those 2 islands. As a result of the withdrawal of the subsidy it has become uneconomical for Ansett Airlines of Australia, which was conducting the service, to continue to do so. Ansett has had to withdraw this service. In its place a temporary service has been put on. It is operated by 6-seater light aircraft. A petition which has been signed by some 200 women on King Island exemplifies the concern and the attitude of a number of people on both those islands. I have a copy of the petition and I would be happy to table it if called upon to do so. It states: 
We feel this is a retrograde step - 
That is taking the step which I have mentioned -  and some points of special concern are- 
.  No alternative means of transport. 
Only one pilot. 
No facilities for the help of aged people, mothers with small children or sick people. No help in administering oxygen in case of need. 
No toilets. 
Several retarded children attend special school in Tasmania and require to be in the charge of a hostess. 
There are approximately 50 children travelling frequently to Tasmania for higher education, and parents are concerned about them in small aircraft with the lack of these facilities. 
The air fares have been increased by $ 10 and at $46.20, we feel this service does not justify the cost involved. 
Even when the Fokker Friendship service is reintroduced - we strongly object to the very large increase in fares due to the depressed economic situation of the Island and our isolation. 
The insensitive Federal Labor Government has not responded in any favourable way to the pleas for assistance. In fact,  Mr Jones  has made it very clear that he has not the slightest intention of going to King Island to discuss with the residents the problems which they have in relation to both their air service and their shipping service. Aspects relating to their shipping service have been well aired in the Senate in the past year or so. I shall not refer to them in detail. The problems in relation to the air service have not been well aired, although I did ask a question about them recently. I got an answer from  Senator Cavanagh  in which he simply said that he could not see much reason for wanting to put on a reasonable type of aircraft even once a week. This is the sort of action which has been taken by this Government in relation to Tasmania. This is the sort of action which causes editorials to be written in Tasmanian newspapers with headings such as: 'State Hit Again'. That was the headline in an editorial in the 'Examiner' on 12 September this year. It is not an uncommon editorial headline. It is not uncommon for us Tasmanians to feel that we have been hit yet again by this insensitive Government. 
As I have mentioned, we now find that we have increasing unemployment in Tasmania, yet no plan has been disclosed to date. As I mentioned last night, the Minister for Agriculture,  Senator Wriedt,  has not been able to obtain publication of the task force report because the Minister for Manufacturing Industry,  Mr Enderby,  has claimed that it is an inter-departmental committee report and he has no intention of tabling it. I wonder whether the real reason for not tabling the report is that if it were tabled a certain Prime Minister might wind up with even more egg all over his face. After all, we hear around the corridors that the report from which the Prime Minister quoted when he was speaking at the Heavy Engineering Manufacturers Association dinner was this particular task force report. Had the Prime Minister read the report instead of misreading it, he would have seen that the figure upon which he relied was an old figure and was not the figure that was being referred to by those who were seeking some assistance for Tasmania. Presumably there are those in the Government who think that the publication of the report would further embarrass the Prime Minister. If it is not that, then perhaps we can hear some good reason why it cannot be produced. 
I find it very difficult to understand the point of having a task force report which presumably makes recommendations and suggestions as to what can be done to help overcome the unemployment problem in the Launceston area when it is not published. If it were published we, the people of northern Tasmania, would be able to evaluate the report, make further suggestions and perhaps, from what was suggested, know what we could do to help ourselves. At the moment the refusal to publish the report is in no way assisting to overcome the problem. In any event, I wonder why it was necessary- notwithstanding the fact that everybody knew for so long that high unemployment would be caused by the Government's action- for us to get to the near-desperation stage before any action was taken by the Government to even maintain some degree of employment in the textile industry in Launceston and other parts of Tasmania. 
One of the saddest advertisements I have seen in recent times was inserted last Saturday by a textile company which has closed down as a result of this Government's actions. It was advertising a remnants sale- the remnants of the textile industry, the remnants of Australian manufacturing industry. Is it any wonder, with this sort of thing going on and with the way in which Australia has been affected by this Government's economic mismanagement, that  Mr Bill  Hughes, the General Secretary of the Australian Textile Workers Union, should say yesterday that he could not understand why any person employed in manufacturing industries in Australia would vote for the return of this Government. I simply add that anybody who would do that would be voting to increase by a very large degree the likelihood of that person being put out of work because that has been the history of this Government's actions. What a commentary it is on the less than 2 years of Labor Government that we should have the highest unemployment in Tasmania and in Australia in recent history; that is, since the 2nd World War. 
I refer also to other questions related to Tasmania and assistance. I take this opportunity to inquire whether the Government is doing anything about these matters. Does it propose to do anything about them in the future? The matters to which I refer include the Warner Creek dam. No doubt  Senator Wriedt  would be familiar with this, as a project which would have tremendously beneficial effects. It has been regarded, on a costbenefit analysis, as one of the best projects in Australia. It is likely if allowed to go ahead to lead to the opportunity for the Meander River to be freed from the pollution from which it now suffers. Good water could be made available to the towns throughout the Meander Valley and irrigation would be possible in that very fertile region. However, so far we have heard nothing at all notwithstanding repeated requests for some sort of response on the issue from the Government. 
The Labor Party promised in election speeches in 1972 that the Government would reintroduce the Interstate Commission. I am referring to this matter in the absence of my colleague  Senator Wright  who is at present attending the United Nations as the representative of this chamber. The Interstate Commission is a matter very near and dear to  Senator Wright's  heart. It was promised by the Government but we have not seen any action taken on it. 
Yes. He is no relation to  Senator Ken  Wriedt who is in the chamber and has drawn attention to his presence here. I accept that there is a possibility of confusion between the 2 names. 
Yes. I simply referred to the promise of the Labor Party. In Hobart in November 1972  Senator Murphy,  Leader of the Government in the Senate, explained how the Commission would help to overcome all Tasmania's transport problems. Not only have we not seen the Commission; we have not seen either any help being given to overcome Tasmania's transport problems. I do not regard the action taken by the Government and so proudly proclaimed by  Senator Devitt  as anything other than giving with one hand and taking back with the other hand. We have not really advanced towards reducing the disparity between Tasmania 's transport costs and those which are common between, say, Melbourne and Sydney. I believe that the Government has displayed monumental disinterest in the problems of Tasmania. This is exemplified by its refusal to have a single member of the Government attend the protest rally which was organised yesterday in Launceston. Various reasons have been given why individual members could not attend but I do not accept them, particularly in view of the availability of Royal Australian Air Force transport, the use of which enables people to fly from Canberra to Tasmania to attend a function and to return to Canberra with a minimum loss of time. RAAF transport has been used quite extensively by Ministers to attend functions and I do not believe that it would not have been possible for a Minister of the present Government- preferably  Mr Barnard  as a Minister and the member for Bass- to attend the rally yesterday. That absence exemplifies the Government's monumental disinterest. 
That it is creating a reaction in Tasmania is to be expected and not the least reaction has come from none other than the Labor Premier of Tasmania. In today's issue of the Hobart 'Mercury' he is quoted as saying that he is 'browned off with people from Canberra tramping their hobnails over the State'. He is not particularly thrilled with what might be regarded as the Labor Government's approach to the problems of the island State. I want to take the opportunity also to comment generally on the Government's approach to expenditure and to tie such comments in with my specific concluding remarks. The Government has made a very loud noise about the extent to which it has been prepared to help the people, the magnificence of its social welfare program and all sorts of things. Let us debunk that claim by looking at Treasury Information Bulletin Number 75 of July 1974. At page 35 is a table setting out the percentage increases in various fields of expenditure. It shows that the Federal Government in 1973-74 increased its total receipts by 26.1 per cent. If in an area the increase in expenditure is less than 26 per cent it means that that area did not keep up with the general increase in income. Under the heading Social Security and Welfare the increase shown is 18.5 per cent for 1973-74 whereas expenditure for Legislative Services- running the Government- increased by 51.6 per cent. One may well deduce where some of the Government's emphasis on expenditure wentnot on helping the people but on helping itself. 
There are similar increases in all sorts of ways which further make the point. The only one to which I will specifically refer is the fraud one in education. The claim is made, as is usual, that expenditure was increased by 94.8 per cent in 1 973-74. We all know that that is a total fraud. In no way did the Government increase expenditure on education by anything like 94 per cent because more than one-third of the increase - $144m out of $4 16m- was simply a transfer of money which formerly had been paid to education by the Commonwealth through the States and now was being put into the Commonwealth's education budget. It did not represent a single solitary cent of extra expenditure on education. It is important for us to remember that the Government has been living upon that fraud for some considerable time, inducing people to believe that it has done far more in increasing expenditure on education than it has in fact done. The Government's claim is based upon a manipulation of figures and is in no way representative of the facts. 
I turn now to the shipping problems of Tasmania, a matter referred to in the debate just concluded but which needs referring to in greater detail. We were anxious to see the Australian Shipping Commission Bill go through as quickly as possible so that the assistance it provides at least would be available to Tasmania forthwith. That a problem exists is not disputed. Tasmanian senators have referred to it here over the years. In 1 970 we had occasion to debate freight rates of the Australian National Line when I moved for reference to the Senate Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade the increases in freight rates applicable across Bass Strait. At that time I referred to the huge amounts of expenditure by the Commonwealth Government over the years on beef roads, Commonwealth railways and assistance in the transport problems of the other States and the Territories while Tasmania had received virtually nothing. That situation prevails. About $400m a year is being spent on interstate highways yet  Senator Devitt  proudly crows about an extra $2m for Tasmanian shipping. 
Will you let me continue? 
The report of the Committee was presented to the Senate in 1971. The Liberal and Country Party Government accepted at least one of the recommendations made by the Committee. It did accept more than one of them, but one of them was a recommendation that the extent of the disability suffered by Tasmania should be the subject matter of an inquiry, an investigation, by the Bureau of Transport Economics. The second recommendation in the report was that as soon as practicable the Bureau of Transport Economics be asked to attempt a quantitative assessment of Tasmania's transport disabilities relative to the other States. 
The point that I want to make to  Senator Devitt  and to other honourable senators is that the then Liberal-Country Party did do that. It did have carried out that Bureau of Transport Economics assessment and that assessment did quantify the extent of the disability suffered by Tasmania. It made it abundantly clear. That report has been available to this Government throughout the whole of the term of its office. Yet it makes the excuse that it cannot do anything positive about overcoming the problems because it needs further information. As  Senator Bessell  made quite clear in his maiden speech just a week or two ago, there can be no doubt at all as to the nature of the disability suffered by Tasmania. The then Liberal-Country Party Government did take steps and it indicated that it would act on the report. Had it remained in office, its actions would have been carried out years ago. 
Its action would be years old by now had it remained in office. But instead of that this Government has just caused one further deferral of any real action to overcome Tasmania's major shipping problems. 
The extent of the disability being suffered by Tasmania is growing all the time, and this Government is prepared to approve a 25 per cent increase in the freight rates across Bass Strait and then proudly say: 'Having taken that much away from you we will give you back half by simply covering the freight rates on outward bound cargo'. Of course, the fact that the 25 per cent increase remains to be imposed upon inward cargoes means that all foodstuffs which have to be imported and all the raw materials for Tasmanian industries which have to be imported have to suffer a 25 per cent increase in the loading imposed on them. This is highly inflationary, amongst other things. It means that industries which have to import raw materials and then export their products will remain less competitive. 
Whilst we look forward to receiving the Nimmo report, and whilst we look forward to receiving any assistance that the Government may eventually find itself able to give, Tasmania is, in economic terms, bleeding to death. I simply remind the Government that the Australian National Line is not the only shipping line involved in shipping to and from Tasmania. Assistance is required not only in relation to the Australian National Line; assistance is required in relation to any form of shipping which operates to and from Tasmania. It is that factor with which we are concerned. As an amendment to the motion for the second reading of the States Grants Bill, I move: 
At the end of the motion, add-  but the Senate is of the opinion that the proposed provision of grants to the State of Tasmania is inadequate and that the Government should forthwith make provision for further funds to enable Tasmanian people and commercial undertakings to enjoy a shipping transport cost no greater per ton mile than the rail freight rate applying in the other States of Australia. '. 
I challenge the Tasmanian senators on the Government side of the chamber to put Tasmania first and to join us in demanding a fair go for Tasmania. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  Is the amendment seconded? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the  Deputy  Prime Minister. Is it a fact that the Australian Industry Development Corporation has 3 major investment advisers on its advisory panel? Are these companies Development Finance Corporation Limited, Capel Court Corporation Limited and Australian United Corporation Limited? Is it also a fact that, by definition in the Government's own legislation, each of these companies is an overseas company; in other words, each is a multinational corporation? If the Minister does not know the answer, will he obtain it from the  Deputy  Prime Minister? 
-I will not engage in a reply to some of the more extreme matters raised by  Senator Hall  in his flights of fancy. I will, however, try to put the matter into perspective by stating the truth. The truth is that the headline in the 'Examiner' is: 'Tas Refused More Money'. The sub-headline is: 'Senate Plea Defeated by One Vote'. The article which follows reads: 

 Senator Hall, South Australia, joined Labor senators last night to defeat a motion calling on the Government to increase funds for Tasmania. 
I pause there and ask: In what way is there any misrepresentation in that? The Senate was considering a motion which did call on the Government to increase funds for Tasmania. The motion was defeated and  Senator Hall  joined with the Labor Party senators to defeat it. 
Government senators- Hear, hear! 
Thank you. The article continues: 
The sponsor of the motion,  Senator Rae,  said that the purpose was to equalise Tasmanian shipping costs with tonnemile rail freights in other States. 
That was what is said- 
The motion also claimed that the present grants to Tasmania were inadequate and should be increased. 
Again I simply refer to the Senate Hansard of yesterday in which it is quite clear that that is what the motion said. The article went on to say : 
The motion was moved by  Senator Rae  during the debate on the Bill to provide a grant of $15m to Tasmania in lieu of former Grants Commission assistance. 
I believe that that too is a fact. And so the story goes on. In no way does it misrepresent  Senator Hall's  shameful actions in this chamber. 
In relation to the other matter raised by  Senator Hall,  which is where the story came from, in this chamber last night I received a message from the attendant asking me to telephone the Examiner' in Launceston. I telephoned the Examiner' in Launceston and asked who it was who wanted to talk to me and what it was about. I was asked by the 'Examiner' to give some further information on the story which it had received from the Press services of this place. The further fact which I refer to in conclusion is that there is no inaccuracy in any way. There was a motion moved by me, supported by the Opposition, to increase funds for Tasmania. That motion was defeated, lt was defeated by a combination - 
Calling on the Government to increase funds is surely a way in which it could be described, and that is what it did. It expressed the view that the Government should forthwith provide further funds. If that is not calling on the Government to provide further funds I cannot imagine what is. None of  Senator Hall's  misstatements or misguided performances in this place are going to impress anybody in Tasmania. The Tasmanian people know where he stands. He is against the small States. He is against keeping the Labor Government to its pre-election promises. We will see what sort of performance he is able to make if he wishes to put forward anything on behalf of South Australia or if anybody else does. We will see whether he stands up. More and more one gains the impression that he is far more interested in looking after the interests of the present socialist Government. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. What is the current approved establishment of the Minister's Department? What is the current actual establishment? If there is a variation, as I understand there is, what are the reasons for that variation? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. By way of brief preface to explain the question, I refer to the fact that it is stated at page 27 of the Budget Speech: 
Capital gains will include gains from the disposal of assets, capital sums otherwise derived from assets- 
And other items. 
A disposal will be deemed to occur in cases extending beyond sales and exchanges, and will include compulsory acquisitions- 
And certain other cases and-  transfers on death . . . 
On 27 September 1974, at La Trobe in Tasmania, the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Dr Cairns,  assured people at a public meeting that the capital gains tax would not apply to a property left by a farmer to his family. Can the Minister explain who was correct- the Treasurer, in giving the Budget Speech, or the  Deputy  Prime Minister, who may otherwise be known as the shadowy Treasurer? 
I would like to raise a brief point in order to obtain the views and comments of the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  in relation to it. May I explain briefly the type of circumstance that concerns me and then refer to the clause in the Bill which would appear to cover it? I have had drawn to my attention recently the case of a man from a European country which has been taken over and become one of the communist countries. After that event he had acquired compulsorily from him the property which he owned, which was quite substantial in that country. The property was subject to a mortgage. Recently he has received a number of threatening letters from authorities in that country claiming the amount of the mortgage, some 20 years after he had to flee the country with nothing, his property having been appropriated and he receiving nothing with which he could possibly have paid off the mortgage. 
Apparently in relation to the mortgage there were some arbitration terms. The inference is that he had agreed to arbitration, the arbitration had been carried out and he was duly indebted for the amount of the mortgage. I just want to make sure whether, either by statute in a foreign country or by that type of circumstance, the Australian court would be totally free under the provisions of clause 8 sub-clause (5) to hear and determine whether justice in our sense had been fully available to the particular Australian resident or whether one might have a circumstance in which a person finding himself in that position could have enforced against him what could only be described as a rather bodgie type of arbitration, leaving a debt which in any form of justice and equity could not be considered due and payable. 
-The States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bill with which we are dealing provides financial assistance to the States in relation to the Aboriginal people of Australia. I make the point that the assistance applies only to the 6 States. In the figures with which we will be dealing in relation to payments we are not concerned with payments for similar purposes in the Territories. The total amount provided in the Schedule to the Bill is $40,790,000. The way in which that money is to be expended among the 6 States is set out in a schedule attached to a statement made by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  which was issued separately from the Bill. It shows that something like half the amounts and, in some cases, more than half the amounts is in respect of housing. The amount has been divided among the States on an historical basis. The break-up is roughly according to the needs of the States and to the numbers of persons in the various States who are Aborigines or are of Aboriginal descent. The amounts involved include amounts in respect to Queensland. I shall come back to that in a moment. 
The Opposition entirely supports the granting of funds for this purpose. It entirely supports the emphasis which is given to the need for housing. We do not wish to be understood, by any action we may take or any comment we may make in relation to this matter, to be detracting in any way from the importance of these funds getting out as soon as possible to the purposes for which they are intended. But I think it is important that we see what is being done by the Bill. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in the Budget Speech referred to the total of $40,790,000 which was to be made available for this purpose. This is referred to in Budget Paper No. 7 at page 74. There, the amount which was to be paid to Queensland for this purpose was $13,552,000. That amount represented approximately onethird of the total amount. Queensland, by the 197 1 census, has 34 per cent of the Aborigines in Australia, other than in the Territories. So, that would have been a proper pro rata division of the funds, having in mind the percentage of Aborigines resident in Queensland who would benefit from this legislation. 
However, for reasons which the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs made clear in his second reading speech, that amount is now to be cut back by $3. 19m. So Queensland, instead of receiving $13. 5m- in round figures- will receive $ 10.3m. The increase in relation to Queensland is only some $400,000. In the Minister's own words, that represents an increase related to the unavoidable commitment of the Commonwealth Government to Queensland. The remainder of the money- some $3. 19m- which otherwise would have gone to Queensland, is to be divided among other States. New South Wales will receive an extra $ 1.877m; Victoria will receive an extra $730,000; and South Australia will receive an extra $583,000. None of that amount will go to Western Australia or to Tasmania. The Minister also has said that the Government will make up by other means the amount of $3. 19m for 
Aborigines in Queensland so that they will not be disadvantaged as a result of the action taken by the Government. The statement which the Minister made points out that the Government will be able to make payments direct to housing associations. It will make extra payments through the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and in other ways will make up this amount for the benefit of the people in Queensland. 
I think it is important to see why this action has been taken by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and the Government and why it is believed that it can be of equal advantage to the Aboriginal people of Queensland to receive the money in this way. The Budget shows that last year there was a shortfall in expenditure through housing associations of some $9m. At an estimates committee meeting the Minister was asked some questions about this shortfall. He pointed to the fact that the housing associations had not developed as rapidly as had been anticipated and that the housing program, through the housing associations, had not been as successful or rapid as the Government had anticipated and, I am quite sure, as all of us would have hoped it would be. But the fact remains that it has not been successful and that the people concerned are in the process of developing a capacity to carry out the speedy development of adequate housing by this means. At an estimates committee meeting neither the Minister nor his officers were able to give any evidence, nor is there any evidence known to me otherwise, which would indicate that the expansion of the housing associations in Queensland in the current year will be sufficiently rapid to ensure that the full funds which will be made available for housing can be properly expended in the coming year to the benefit of Aborigines in Queensland. In fact it would appear that any casual observer objectively viewing the scene in Queensland would arrive at the opinion that it would be desirable at least for this year- then to review the position after this year- to do as much as possible of the work of providing adequate housing through the Queensland Deparment of Aboriginal and Island Affairs and associated departments, which have an experience and an expertise in this field. 
I suggest that to take away from the Queensland Government the $3. 19m and say that this will be made up by giving even more to the housing associations, which are at a developing stage, is clearly at this time not in the best interests of the Aboriginal people of Queensland. It is more likely than not to have an adverse effect upon the rate of development of adequate housing for those people. I think that the general background of the problems between the Commonwealth Government and the State Government of Queensland are reasonably well known. I do not propose at this stage to pause for any great debate back and forth as to who is right and who is wrong. We will have an opportunity at another stage when certain legislation - 
I do not find it in any way embarrassing. I do not regard it as relevant to debate that matter in detail. What I do regard as relevant to debate and to consider are complaints such as the complaint made by the Cooperative for Aborigines Ltd in a Press statement dated 4 October 1974 of which the heading is Government Failure to Sponsor Aborigine Education in Co-operatives a "Turtle Scandal in Reverse" '. The authors state: 
The almost total failure of the Federal Government to raise a finger to promote the co-operative movement amongst Aborigines is a public scandal. 
While in Opposition, Government members pledged themselves to promote intensively co-operative education Ibr Aborigines, yet once in office, they have comfortably forgotten all about it. 
After virtually 2 years in office they have done . . . nothing. 
There is a word between the words 'done' and-  nothing' which I do not read, but it does indicate some exasperation with the situation. The Press release continues: 
This failure can only be described as crime by default, and in its way a 'turtle scandal in reverse '. 
Further on the statement continues: 
The statement said that the Government "s scandalous indifference was further compounded inside the Australian Co-operative movement itself where the crucial issue of cooperatives for Aborigines was not even on the agenda of the Convention. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
General Business taking precedence of Government Business 

 -Mr Deputy President, notice of motion No. 1 in my name is a motion related to the reappointment of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. Before proceeding further I draw the Senate's attention to the fact that notice of this motion was given on 9 July 1974 and that subsequent events have made parts of the motion no longer relevant or tenable. I therefore seek leave to amend my motion by the deletion of some words. In paragraph (1)1 seek to delete after the word 'Committee' secondly appearing the words forthwith to present its Report (which was agreed to and in the process of being printed at the date of dissolution) and'. So paragraph (1) would read: 
That the Select Committee on Securities and Exchange, which was functioning immediately prior to the dissolution of the Senate on 1 1 April 1974, be reappointed to enable the Committee to conclude and table the two remaining chapters not at present included in the printed Report. 
I pause there to say that the report, which at that time had been printed, was as a result of a special order of the Senate tabled on 1 8 July, and therefore that section of the original motion is no longer relevant. I seek also to omit words from paragraph (4) which reads: 
That the Committee present its final Report to the Senate as soon as possible but, in any event, not later than 30 September 1974. 
I wish to omit the words 'but, in any event, not later than 30 September 1974'. That, of course, is not relevant now, the date having passed. For reasons which I will advance shortly, in my view it is no longer possible to specify a particular date in the way in which it would have been possible had the Committee been able to be reestablished in early July. For the benefit of honourable senators I should like to make several points in moving the motion. 
Thank you,  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. I seek leave. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy President.  I also thank the former  President  of the Senate for his assistance. The history of the Committee is that it was set up with a membership which changed in only 2 ways between its original membership and the membership which would be available today. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Senator Rae,  do you intend to move your motion? 
Yes. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  You formally move it? 
Yes. I move; 
That the Select Committee on Securities and Exchange, which was functioning immediately prior to the dissolution of the Senate on 1 1 April 1974, be re-appointed to enable the Committee to conclude and table the 2 remaining chapters not at present included in the printed report. 
That the Committee consist of Senators Durack, Georges, Lawrie, Rae, Sim, Wheeldon and Wriedt. 
That, in preparing the final 2 chapters of its report, the Committee have power to consider the minutes of evidence and records of the Select Committees on Securities and Exchange appointed during previous sessions. 
That the Committee present its final report to the Senate as soon as possible. 
That the foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with Standing Orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the Standing Orders. 
In speaking to the motion I draw attention to the fact that there have been only 2 changes in the membership of those who were appointed to the Committee when it was originally set up and of those who would be available to serve on it today. One was the original  Chairman  of the Committee,  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. He became the  President  of the Senate and therefore retired from the Committee, and  Senator Durack  took his place. That was several years ago. Then in May of this year another member of the Committee,  Senator Little,  failed to regain his seat in the Senate and is no longer available. Otherwise, all of those who have been associated with the Committee, either throughout its period of operation or alternatively, in the case of  Senator Durack,  for some 3 years of its period of operation, are available. They are the people who participated in the public inquiry which was conducted. They are the people who heard the evidence. They are the people who have unanimously agreed to the report which has been presented. 
I think that this Committee showed that it is possible for the committee system to operate, even on a matter which was potentially difficult, in an effective and bipartisan way in presenting a unanimous report. I think it is important that those who heard the evidence and who are familiar with the considerations which have taken place in relation to the Committee's work should be the people who make the judgments, the decisions and the recommendations which finalise the work of the Committee. I remind the Senate that the chapters which are left to be completed were explained in the report which has been presented. The first chapter relates to certain geological assessments and reporting and stock exchange practice involving a company, Queensland Mines Ltd. Also, there is the drawing together of the recommendations, most of which appear throughout the report at various stages of the case study chapters. These need to be drawn together into a final chapter of recommendations. That work still has to be done. 
I can inform the Senate that the chapter on Queensland Mines is in an advanced stage of preparation; it being in, I think, its third redraft stage. When the Committee had to cut off its work to enable it to present the report which it has presented, that chapter had reached the stage where it needed redrafting, and the extremely important work of the checking of the facts right back from initial documents had to be undertaken. As I have mentioned, the chapter on recommendations requires drafting and the drawing together of the recommendations which exist. Part of that work- not all of it- had been done. There is no further evidence to be heard by this Committee. There is no new inquiry to be conducted in any way. There is only the continuation of the task which the existing members of the Committee had undertaken and with which they are all familiar. 
I suggest to the Senate that it is appropriate, it is fair, and it is in the best interests of both the Senate and of the people whose interests are affected in one way or another by the report, that those who heard the evidence should make the judgments; in other words that those who were involved throughout the period of the inquiry should be the members of the Committee to complete what is very much a final stage of the Committee's work. As I have mentioned, I gave notice of the original motion on 9 July. It is unfortunate that pressure of other business has prevented the motion from being dealt with until now. 
I will come to that. 
I will come to that. If  Senator Murphy  has a suggestion I would be quite happy to consider it. I ask  Senator Murphy  to listen to what I have to say before we take the matter any further. 
May I go for a little while and them I will be quite happy to accept any suggestions. The delay in proceeding with this matterand I do not canvass the reasons for it in any way at all- has meant that two of the principal officers who were associated with the work of the Committee are no longer available to assist. I am sure that this would apply to other honourable senators as it applies to me: We have virtually no time that is not already committed between now and the end of the year to be able to engage personally in the work of the Committee which would be involved. Then there are those who have the background history of this matter. There is  Dr John  Rose whose tremendous assistance and contribution to the Committee is, I think, acknowledged by all members of the Senate. I should like to take the opportunity to pay tribute again to the work which he did for the Committee. He has been keeping himself available to assist in finalising the report but is no longer able to do so. He is due to go overseas, having completed another commitment. He is not available to assist the Committee in the checking, re-writing and preparation of material. There are others who are not available so that it would not be possible with the consistency which I would certainly hope to see- the consistency of those who are familiar with the work of the Committee being applied to the completion of the report- to have anybody having enough time available for several months, until the present sitting finishes, and until people have a little time available early in the new year. For that reason I cut out the date 30 September. It was no longer appropriate and I find it extremely difficult to nominate a specific date upon which it can be completed. However, if the first day of sitting next year was suggested and the Committee was not able to complete the report by then, the matter could be raised in the Senate. I simply draw attention to the fact that whereas at the time I moved the motion, the period from 9 July to 30 September remained as a reasonable assessment for the completion of the drafting work involved and for the Committee to meet and for the printing to take place of the final 2 chapters, I am now not able personally to be as confident as I then felt. Other factors have intervened. Between the time that I moved the motion in July and 1 7 September there was a period when the Parliament was not sitting. I had anticipated that in that time the Committee would be able to proceed with its work. Between now and the end of this session no other time is available. It appears that the only time available will be between the end of this session and the commencement of the next session. I have therefore moved the motion and have made the comments I have made without reference to a specific date. I indicate to  Senator Murphy  who raised the matter that I would be quite happy if a date was substituted, the first day of sitting next year. 
I should like to briefly sum up in this way. As I said earlier all questions about the time that it will take to produce a report are governed by the fact that for the rest of this session every member of the proposed Committee is committed to sittings of this chamber and other committee work. It is extremely unfortunate that it was not possible for the Committee to be re-established in early July when the motion was moved and the work could have been completed. I make no further comment than that. I make no excuses either as to why I am not able to give any commitment to furnish a report more speedly either in my own behalf or on behalf of other senators. 
I believe that we cannot report any more speedily. All members of the Committee have commitments. It is with extreme disappointment that I have to say this. I would have much preferred to have had the whole matter completed long ago. It is with extreme disappointment that I say that I think it would be unreal to give any greater commitment to the Senate than to say the report will be furnished as soon as possible. My idea is that the report will be completed at the beginning of the first sessional period next year using the recess to complete the work. The only comment that I made by way of interjection to  Senator Murphy  was that I do not believe- and I did not hear anybody else suggest- that this legislation should be held up pending the completion of the report. It is unfortunate that the Committee could not have completed its investigations so that the Minister could have had the benefit of the final report. But that is not the Committee's fault. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Senator Wriedt's)  be agreed to. 
I hope with a few brief remarks that I can put this debate to bed. I wish to refer to what  Senator Greenwood  said. It has been asserted that he claimed that the writ should not be issued. 
I refer to what  Senator Greenwood  said. He said that the issue of a writ could inhibit discussion in Parliament, in the Press, on television and on radio. He said that it can be a denial of freedom of discussion. He said it was a matter of complexity and delicacy, but what he did go on to say, and this is my point - 
I will continue to refer to what is, as I understand it, a correct recollection of what was said. I simply say, and Hansard will bear me out, that what  Senator Greenwood  said is that this is a matter of complexity and delicacy. The right of citizens to protect their reputation is a right of the utmost importance. It is a right which I hope will never be diminished. A defamation writ is recourse of this character, the ability of a citizen to claim that he has been subjected to hatred, ridicule and contempt ought to be upheld by all citizens. I so uphold it.  Senator Everett  is entirely mistaken if he believes that in any way was  Senator Greenwood  suggesting that there was not a right to be taken by  Senator Everrett  or anybody else who wished to take proceedings through the courts and so uphold their rights. I certainly uphold that and intend to continue to do so. 
In relation to some of the more scurrilous remarks that seemed to flow around the chamber there has been the appointment of a representative from the House of Representatives to speak on behalf of Tasmania in that chamber; no more and no less. It is one of the misfortunes of Tasmania that it does not have a Liberal representative in the House of Representatives, a misfortune which is becoming more and more manifest as every day goes by. It is something which is being overcome by having someone to speak on our behalf, even though he is not from Tasmania. As to some of the other remarks of  Senator Everett,  I think they can be judged by his knowledge of the size of the population of Tasmania who are classified as Aborigines. If  Senator Everett  studies the last census he will find that the number was about 600. If he inquires of the Aboriginal Information Service he will find that according to their records the number is very much greater. 
I have been challenged to say whether I have any knowledge of an advertisement that appeared and to which exception was taken. I do not wish to canvass the matter any more than  Senator Everett  apparently wished to canvass it, but if he wishes me to read out an advertisement which appeared in the newspaper and to say whether I had any knowledge of it, we may then be able to identify which advertisement he is talking about and which one I am talking about. If he does not want me to take that course I will say only that I have had nothing to do with any advertisements lately except those about which I have been asked for legal advice as to whether they were defamatory or contained defamatory matter. I gave clear advice that they did not. I am unable to take it further without identifying in greater particularity. I simply conclude by saying that what  Senator Greenwood  said is in no way what he was misrepresented from the other side of the chamber as having said. He certainly upheld the right to institute proceedings. He queried whether the institution of proceedings in that manner could have the effect of preventing discussion of a matter of public importance. As a matter of law I simply suggest that it does not and I certainly do not intend to regard it as doing so. 
My question, which is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, follows a question asked earlier and the answer given by the Minister relating to multi-national corporations. Is the Minister aware that the extent of the crashes resulting from the Government's economic policies has so far been substantially reduced by the propping up which a certain significant number of Australian finance, development and other companies have received from multi-national financial institutions arranging funds from overseas so that the Australian companies can avoid the results of the excesses of the credit squeeze in Australia? Have these multi-nationals saved not only the companies but also, so far, the Government? Does the proposed visit overseas of  Dr Cairns  mean that the Government now acknowledges that multi-national finance can serve a useful purpose for Australia? 
I present 4 petitions, identical in wording and from 15, 20, 20 and 40 citizens of the Commonwealth respectively, in the following terms: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We the undersigned Citizens of the Commonwealth, by this our humble Petition respectfully showeth: 
That the existing matrimonial laws in Australia are archaic, unrealistic, and cruel and so completely at variance with modern thought as to require their immediate repeal. 
That there is such urgent need for reform that there must be no delay in presenting the Family Law Bill 1974 to Parliament for debate. 
That the ground of Irretrievable Breakdown of Marriage be the sole ground for divorce with proof of this determined by a maximum of twelve months separation. 
That dissolution of marriage must come out of the legal system with people resolving their family matters between themselves according to guidelines and with assistance of a mediator. Family Courts only to be used for enforcement as a last resort. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, in the absence of  Senator Cavanagh.  I ask: Is the Minister aware that some Aboriginal members of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs were not at work today? Is the Minister aware of rumours around Parliament House- if so, can he verify them- that there has been a lockout of those Aboriginal employees from that Department? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture. I refer to earlier answers regarding the visit to Australia of the Prime Minister of Japan and also to the various questions which I have asked previously about negotiations for the entry of Tasmanian fruit into the Japanese market. In view of the extremely serious state of the fruit industry in Tasmania and the importance of opening up this new market for Tasmanian fruit, I ask the Minister whether the opportunity will be taken to engage in further talks so as to further press the matter of the entry of Tasmanian fruit into Japan. 
I  present 3 petitions, identical in wording, from 7, 20 and 28 citizens of the Commonwealth, in the following terms: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth, by this our humble petition respectfully showeth: 
That the existing matrimonial laws in Australia are archaic, unrealistic, and cruel and so completely at variance with modern thought as to require their immediate repeal. 
That there is such urgent need for reform that there must be no delay in presenting the Family Law Bill 1974 to Parliament for debate. 
That the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage be the sole ground for divorce with proof of this determined by a maximum of twelve months separation. 
That dissolution of marriage must come out of the legal system with people resolving their family matters between themselves according to guidelines and with assistance of a mediator. Family Courts only to be used for enforcement as a last resort. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Tourism and Recreation whether it is a fact that State governments are required to submit their recreation projects to the Federal Minister for Tourism and Recreation for his approval where they seek Commonwealth Government contributions. Is it a fact that no decision has yet been made on the Victorian projects for 1974-75, notwithstanding that  4Vi  months of the year have now passed? Is it not a fact that the delay might cause some of the projects to be abandoned? Will the Minister seek to have his colleague expedite a decision before inflation puts the projects beyond the means of the State? 
I draw attention to clause 31. 1 inquire of the Minister: What is the meaning of 'Securities of Australia' mentioned in clause 31 (b)? The phrase is not defined in the definition clause. I just inquire as to the meaning of that phrase. 

 -Mr Chairman, the time of night is 10.35 p.m. The Senate is about to rise. We are anxious that funds of just over $40m which are to be provided to Aborigines in Australia should be made available to them as soon as possible. I wish simply to explain that it is only for that reason that at the Committee stage I do not raise a number of matters which otherwise would have been raised in the debate. They will be raised at the next opportunity which presents itself when we are dealing with some general aspects of the administration of Aboriginal affairs. I simply want to take the opportunity to explain that it is not because there are no unsatisfactory aspects of the grant to Queensland and our desire to see it increased that I do not take the matter any further at this stage. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
-The debate on this matter was adjourned on 24 October last and is now being resumed. Prior to the debate being adjourned I had referred to a number of matters, one of which was the general support forthcoming from the Opposition for the funds being provided in this Bill. I also pointed out our concern in relation to another aspect. A total of $40,790,000 is being provided by the Commonwealth to the States for assistance in relation to Aboriginal people in the various States. A large part of the money is to be spent on housing. Other moneys are to be spent on education, health and other matters. The matter of concern arises because the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  and the Government have seen fit to vary what was projected in the Budget in relation to the State of Queensland and to reduce the amount payable to that State by the sum of $3. 19m. The figure indicated in the Budget, $13,552,000, is to be reduced to $10.3m, which is provided for in the Bill. The Minister has indicated that this is because the Queensland Government- to use an expression, perhapshas not been co-operative with the Federal Government. It appears, however, that the Federal Government's idea of co-operation is if people do what they are told by the Federal Government then they are co-operating. If they are not prepared to do what they are told they are not co-operating. 
This somewhat heavy handed, somewhat dictatorial, attitude of the Commonwealth Government is exemplified in this Bill as it has been in many other actions that the Government has taken. What appears to have been overlooked by the Government is the best interests of the Aborigines in Queensland. We see a situation where the Minister has said, in a somewhat airy-fairy way, that the $3. 19m will be made up in other ways by direct grants to housing associations and by expenditure through the Commonwealth Department of Aboriginal Affairs and perhaps some other unspecified ways. There is no clear pattern. It has obviously not been worked out to this date exactly how the money will be spent and how much will go to which particular area. In other words people are left in a position of uncertainty as to how, when and subject to what conditions the moneys will be received in Queensland. 
I had also referred to some of the problems which had existed in relation to the gearing up for the expenditure of funds by Aboriginal associations in Queensland. Whilst I do not wish to be in any way taken as suggesting that they should not be encouraged to become fully operative as soon as possible, and subject to certain comments which my colleague  Senator Bonner  will make and which I do not pause to make but do support about the question of costs that are involved and therefore the net amount which eventually will become available for housing and other benefits to Aborigines, the fact is that last year some $9m was unexpended in relation to Aboriginal housing in Australia. As the Minister explained, that was because the associations had not geared up sufficiently to be able to spend the money in the way and at the rate anticipated by the Department at the time the Budget had been prepared. I raised with the Minister the question of whether it would be possible to spend this extra $3. 19m in the current year through the other outlets suggested by him as opposed to the certainty that it would be able to be expended by the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs or other Queensland departments such as the Department of Housing. Those departments are geared up to be able to spend the money. They are geared up to be able to make sure that the utmost advantage is taken of the provision of funds by the Commonwealth in the interests of Aborigines in Queensland. We believe and assert very firmly that there is nothing to suggest that the Commonwealth Department is in any better state than the Queensland Department is to ensure the expenditure of the money for the benefit of those people at this stage of their development. Nor are the housing associations likely to be able to expend the moneys which are planned to be granted to them already or a significant part of the extra $3. 1 9m. 
So it appears that there is a likelihood that once again at the end of this year there will have been an under-expenditure of what was deemed by the Parliament to be a just and appropriate amount of expenditure for Aboriginal affairs. This, of course, is clearly to the disadvantage of the Aboriginal people whom the money is intended to benefit. In my speech I had quoted some comments which had been made in a news release put out on behalf of the Co-operative for Aborigines Ltd. As I mentioned then that news release was highly critical of the present Government's failure. It was pointed out that whilst the Government was prepared to promise all sorts of things when in Opposition it had not done anything effective about those promises. Certainly the history of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs is not such as would give people confidence in its having greater capacity than the Queensland Department to act in the best interests of Aborigines. I shall read from an article in the 'Nation Review' of 17 October to give some idea of the sorts of things which have been written many times about the Department. The article states: 
It is clear that all is not well within the Department. As reported in 'Nation Review' of August 9, the Canberra branch is split into black versus white. Such a split in a very sensitive policy area should be giving the Government forebodings about the Department's ability to handle the policy: If it can't keep its own house in order, it is clear that it is ill equipped to cope with the problem of black-white relations on a national scale. And as Cavanagh admitted earlier this year, the implementation of Labor's policy has been a 'disaster'. 
Recent events only heighten the concern of those who have doubts about the capacity of the Department at the moment efficiently to act in the best interests of Aborigines in Australia. I do not wish to go into detail about the matter but I simply remind honourable senators of the confrontation precipitated by the Minister from which, I believe, he wisely backed away. It was precipitated by him only last week when he made a confrontation threat to the New South Wales Aboriginal Legal Service that unless it took certain action he was not prepared to grant the Service any further funds. This was at a time when the Service was out of funds and it would have had to put off staff if further funds were not immediately forthcoming. That confrontation could have been quite disastrous in damaging relationships between some of the more outspoken and militant people who have been demonstrating in relation to their claims about what they regard as inefficiency in the administration of Aboriginal affairs in Australia. I am glad to say that the Minister withdrew from that confrontation position. 
I do not think  Senator Greenwood  and I have any basic difference of attitude. He is talking about one matter and I am talking about another. My criticism of  Senator Cavanagh-  if I may direct it through you,  Mr Acting Deputy President-  is that he confuses 2 entirely separate issues. The separate issues, of course, are firstly in relation to accountability as far as the New South Wales Aboriginal Legal Service is concerned and, secondly, the manner of exercising a right to protest. I do not subscribe to the manner of the exercise of the right of protest by the erection of tents outside Parliament House but I suggest that the Minister is not entitled in any way at all to say to the New South Wales Aboriginal Legal Service: 'I will cut off your funds unless you cause those tents to be pulled down.' But of course that is another matter. It is one which is disquieting in relation to the administration of Aboriginal affairs in Australia and one which does not make for any greater confidence that the Commonwealth Department is more capable automatically than Queensland in administering for the benefit of Aborigines in Queensland. 
I refer also to the sorry history of the Redfern housing project which, apparently because of the Department's inability for one reason or another to fund in the way which was promised, has now ground to a halt. This has meant that the employees who were taking part in what I understand to be an excellent development program of housing renovation and the provision of housing for Aboriginal people in that area have been put out of work because the Department has not made the promised funds available. This is just one further part of the overwhelming problem which seems to be besetting the administration of this area of government activity. Bearing in mind all these things and the matters which I mentioned earlier about the interests of the Aborigines in Queensland, I read from an editorial in the 'Courier-Mail' of 18 October which states: 
Nobody can be certain at this stage whether Queensland's Aborigines want Commonwealth or State laws. Surely there is a sensible and fair method of finding this out. 
I subscribe to the general thought that at this stage nobody can be certain what the majority of Aboriginal people in Queensland want. I do not believe that it is in their best interests to have the Commonwealth Government foist onto them, in the way it is doing in this Bill, or in the way which is proposed in some other legislation to which I shall not refer, the decision that Big Brother knows best, that the Commonwealth Government will act irrespective of what the Queensland Government may wish and irrespective of what the Aboriginal people in Queensland may wish. I believe that the Government's action is petty. It is not really action which one would expect from a national government. Rather, it is the attitude: 'If you do not make me captain I shall take my bat and ball home and will not let you play'. I think it is extremely unfortunate that this Government cannot be a little bigger in its approach to what is a national question and problem and one which deserves proper consideration, not petty action. For those reasons I move an amendment to the motion for the second reading and to draw attention to the attitude of the Senate in relation to this action of the Government because we believe that it should forthwith make this money available to the Queensland Government so that it can be spent expeditiously in the best interests of the Aborigines of Queensland. I move: 
At end of motion add- but the Senate is of the opinion that the Government's action in reducing the grant to the State of Queensland by $3,190,000 is a petty action which is contrary to the best interests of the Aboriginal people of Queensland and that the Government should take immediate steps to grant to the State of Queensland the further sum of $3,190,000 as promised in the Budget'. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Milliner)-  Is there a seconder to the amendment? 
I have indicated to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  that as far as the amendments were concerned, two out of three were amendments concerned with errors in the Bill to which we had intended to draw attention. We certainly support the other amendment. It appears to improve the Bill. The Bill itself takes further a concept which was introduced by the Liberal-Country Parties when in government. In 1968 the Aboriginal Enterprises (Assistance) Act was enacted by this Parliament, and its objective was to enable Aborigines in Australia to obtain financial assistance from a central fund, provided out of public moneys, upon terms which are not the normal commercial terms but which are those likely to assist people to be able to engage in business enterprises which have a reasonable prospect of success and in respect of which people should be entitled to receive assistance on appropriate terms. As a result of the educational background and as a result of the geographical location of many of the Aboriginal people of Australia it is necessary and desirable that they should be given an opportunity to apply for funds which would not be made available in the normal course of commerce and enterprise within our society. 
This scheme is now being taken further by the present Government and we support the action it is taking. The purpose of the Bill is to convert what was the Aboriginal Enterprises Fund into something a little more sophisticated in the Aboriginal Loans Commission, which will be a commission dealing with 2 particular types of funds. The first will be the old Aboriginal 
Enterprises Fund and the total concept will be transferred to the new Commission. The second fund, and I believe it a desirable development, will be the Aboriginal Housing and Personal Loans Fund. As my colleague,  Senator Bonner,  has said to me there are many Aborigines in Australia who would very much like to be able to have the opportunity to obtain a loan upon reasonable terms to improve their houses, their furnishings and their opportunity for some of the material benefits of life, but who do not want to have a handout and be simply getting something for nothing. They rather wish to have access to loan funds so that they are able to purchase items for themselves as do many other members of our society. 
Part of what will be happening under the Aboriginal Housing and Personal Loans Fund is that funds for both housing and house equipment will be available. I am cognisant of the time of night and of the desire of the Senate to pass this piece of legislation tonight. So I simply take the opportunity to indicate that this legislation is carrying forward and further a concept which was introduced by the Liberal and Country Parties when in government. We support it. We believe it is desirable for the same reasons as we introduced it originally. We believe it is desirable that it be carried forward in this way. One or two small corrections did arise and have now been rectified. There is one question of the power of the Auditor-General which I will raise in the Committee stage only by way of query. Otherwise I indicate that the Opposition supports the legislation as being in the interests of the Aboriginal people in Australia and in the interests of Australia because it is in those interests. We support the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
Does the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs agree with  Mr Charles  Perkins that the head of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs should be sacked for racial discrimination in the administration of the Department? Does the Minister agree that there are widespread reports of major problems within the Department and, if so, what steps are being taken to overcome those problems? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Since the debate last Thursday, with the further time available since then, has the Minister any additional information he could give to the Senate as to whether the Department of Aboriginal Affairs paid for the air transport of persons who attended the recent Weipa conference? The matter was referred to during the debate last Thursday in the Senate. At that time the Minister said that the Department had not paid for anything other than through a VIP flight. I ask whether the Minister has any further information in relation to that matter for the Senate. I ask further: Have any steps been taken to stop further Aboriginal conferences arranged through the Department of Aboriginal Affairs? 
I ask the Minister for Agriculture: Is it a fact that in April 1 974 he announced a 2-year $28m dairy adjustment assistance scheme? What steps have been taken to implement that scheme? Why is it that Tasmanian dairy farmers have not yet received any funds? 
I thank you,  Mr Deputy President.  I thank my colleagues. I thank the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  for what he said. I thought it was reasonably clear that we were anxious to pass this Bill tonight and why I had curtailed my remarks. I stick to the arrangement that was made notwithstanding the provocation that was extended by one senator only. I simply repeat that there are a lot of comments which one could make about this matter but I had simply identified the subject matter of a few of them. I drew attention, I think, to the existence of the problems and I propose that now the matter should be concluded, if the Minister is agreeable, so that we can pass this legislation tonight and the funds can be made available to the schools in Australia. 
-This Bill is a standing indictment of this Government's economic management inefficiency. It simply updates, due to inflation, the funds to be made available in respect of schools in Australia. Because the time is now 10.26 p.m. and we are due to rise at 10.30, and as the Opposition is anxious to see that the education programs of the States throughout Australia go ahead, I shall limit my comments and speak with much greater brevity than I otherwise would. I am anxious to see the Bill passed today to ensure that funds are available. What has happened is that a program was prepared by the Karmel Committee. It was adopted by the Government and it was adopted by the Parliament. It has been implemented through the Schools Commission. Over the past IS months it has been found totally inadequate because of the ravages of inflation following the calculations that were made. So it is necessary for the Government to introduce this legislation to increase very substantially the amounts of money which are to be expended so that the program has some chance of going ahead as planned with the same number of schools to be built and maintained and the same number of teachers to be provided, together with the various other aspects of the education program. 
I take this opportunity to make one other comment. It is curious whilst we are having a debate on this Bill to recall the days late last year when there was considerable debate in this chamber on the creation of the Schools Commission and to be told now by some people associated with it that many of the arguments that the Opposition put forward last year have proved to be correct. 
We were right in expressing the fears which we did- and I remind the Senate that although we did not oppose the Schools Commission we did have reservations about how it would operate. So many of those aspects to which we drew attention now seem to have caused problems. In relation to the categorisation of non-Government schools again we have seen what we said then proved correct. Schools are being forced to close down as a result of this Government's policy. 1 do not take any longer than simply to remind the Senate that not only have those things happened but also we have had repeated time and again the absurd claims that have been made by the Government about the extent to which it has increased assistance to education in Australia. As is well known now it was only a sleight of hand exercise because in producing the Budget figures, which give a false impression, the Government has included sums which were otherwise going to education, not through the education allocation in the Budget but through grants to the States. Putting those sums of money into the appropriation for education makes it look as though the Government has increased education expenditure by very much more than it has. In fact in last year's Budget over one-third of the total increase was this transfer of money which was otherwise being paid by the States out of Commonwealth funds but which is now being paid direct from the Commonwealth. 
If  Senator McLaren  wants a full debate let us have one. I have a lot more comments I would like to make. But in view of the time I conclude by saying that the Opposition supports the Bill with an anxiety that the Government should try to bring inflation under control so that this type of Bill is not necessary. 
That an extension of time be granted to  Senator Rae. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Debate interrupted. 
-Of all the preposterous things that from time to time are done in this place in the pursuit of politics, this is the most preposterous matter that I think I have ever heard raised. Let me just tell the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh),  through you,  Mr Deputy President,  that one of the telegrams- I do not know whether my copy is worded in the same way as that of the Ministerfrom the Aurakun community begins by saying: 
Have held a full council meeting to consider proposed law which will destroy way of life enjoyed by Aboriginal people on this reserve. 
There is the statement made clearly by the  chairman  of that community, that he has held a full council meeting. It is not one which is simply a repetition of what might have been suggested - 
I was going to refer to them because the impression has been given by the Minister that all of the telegrams were sent from the one place. That is clearly wrong. 
The Minister has cut away any misunderstanding that might have arisen. He said that ten were. Presumably that means that ten of the ones that he has received were not. 
Ten were from Thursday Island and the other ten were not. Therefore, ten telegrams have been sent by people from various parts of Queensland. On the telegrams which I have the various post offices and the varying times of the day are shown. They are from places all over Queensland and from people all over Queensland. The impression which has been sought to be given that there has been some form of action by the Premier of Queensland to have all these telegrams sent, apparently without the consent or approval of the people concerned, is so clearly wrong that it does not matter because how could he have been getting around quite as much as would have been necessary to have been able to send telegrams from Brisbane, Thursday Island, Bamaga, Hopevale, Murgon, and various other places around Queensland all within a matter of minutes of each other, according to the times on them? 
It is absurd to make that allegation. It is absurd even to suggest that these people are not entitled to send telegrams if they wish to do so. Are people to be deprived of the right to make their petition known to the Parliament, to the Minister, to the Leader of the Opposition or to whoever else it may be? Are they not able to receive a suggestion as to the wording? What else happens when people send the petitions which have been presented in great numbers in this chamber in recent times? People have suggested to them a form of wording which they are prepared to go along with. They regard it as expressing their views and they sign the petition. I well recall during an education debate last year receiving 43 telegrams sent from one post office with identical wording and purporting to have come from people scattered all over New South Wales. I can well understand who it was who sent those telegrams and it was nothing to do with the people who purported to be sending them; but that is a different matter. That is history. I make the point simply that there is nothing wrong, unethical, immoral or unfortunate in any way at all about a Premier suggesting to certain people that they may like to consider taking a particular course of action. In no way does his telegram purport to impose upon them- rather it invites them- to join in sending such a telegram. These people have opted, obviously of their own free will, to send such a telegram. If the Minister's allegation is to be accepted as correct, what he has done is condemn the people who sent the telegrams as being mindless and as being unable to form an opinion of their own. 
All right. The Minister has gone so far as to suggest that they have been forced in some way. It is funny that the Minister came into this House a little while ago and misstated something which he has now corrected. Apparently his Department had misinformed him about it. I refer to the visit to Weipa. The Minister came into the chamber a little while ago and told us that the people at the Weipa conference were anxious to return to Old Mapoon. Very shortly afterwards we found that ' the same people were telling the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that they were not anxious to do so. We find that dreadful confusion is reigning supreme within the Department of Aboriginal Affairs at the moment. Apparently the Government, the Minister and his Department have been quite happy to see the affairs which have been referred to in the report of a parliamentary committee concerning the situation of children in particular at Yirrkala continue for the 2 years in which the Australian Labor Party has been in office. The Minister has come in and condemned on no basis, on no real evidence, the Premier of Queensland. 
I think that it is so scurrilous that it is not deserving of any further attention from this Parliament. I do not propose to make any further comments other than to say that when the day arrives that people are not entitled to accept a suggestion made by whoever it is, so long as they exercise their own free will, and to send a telegram to a Minister, a Leader of the Opposition, or whoever else it may be, we have reached the stage where we no longer exist in a democracy. The Minister would be far better occupied in having a look at what is going wrong with his Department, finding out why it is in absolute turmoil and what is necessary to avoid the confrontation situations which he seems to want to pull on, instead of making false and absurd accusations about the Premier of Queensland. 

 - Mr Deputy President, the Opposition will give the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  leave to reply if leave is necessary. I move: 
Leave out all words after 'Order of the day', insert ' for the first sitting day in March 1975 to enable the Government to consult with the Aboriginal people living in the reserve communities in the State of Queensland and their elected councils and other bodies and further to ascertain by poll taken within those communities the wishes of those people in relation to future restrictions upon the right of entry to those community areas'. 
In moving that amendment I indicate to the Senate that it is in the terms foreshadowed during the debate on the motion for the second reading of the Bill. It is designed clearly for the purpose of enabling the views of the people concerned to be ascertained, it having been made clear thatprima facie, anyway- there is no enthusiasm amongst those people for this part of the legislation; in fact, there is direct opposition to it. As previously indicated, the Opposition wishes to ensure that those people are consulted and sees this amendment as the appropriate way of ensuring the consultation without preventing the Bill from being proceeded with when the Parliament resumes next year. I shall mention only one other point. The procedure which had to be adopted to achieve this purpose was to move for the adjournment of the debate. I know that that has deprived the Minister of his right to reply to the points raised in the debate on the motion for the second reading of the Bill, although he will have such an opportunity later when the matter is brought back before the Senate. We will facilitate in every way his being able to make such comments as he wishes in relation to the debate on the motion for the second reading of the Bill. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Education been drawn to a questionnaire circulated recently under the auspices of the Australian Schools Commission seeking information from teachers at schools in relation to various aspects of the Commission's functions? Has his attention been drawn to the fact that the concluding questions in the questionnaire, Nos 40 and 41, seek the following information: 'Your last vote- Labor, Liberal, Australia Party, Democratic Labor Party or other', and 'Your next vote', and similar party names are set out? What is the purpose of seeking that information from school teachers around Australia? Is this a form of attempted intimidation? In any event, will the Minister seek to have the Minister for Education direct that this abuse be discontinued and that the recipients of this questionnaire so far be informed that they should not answer that part of it? 
-The Bill with which we are concerned will override certain Queensland legislation relating to Aboriginal people in that State. The major problem, I suppose, with which we are concerned, is what is the basic interest of those people. I do not doubt that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  will say- and I accept his sinceritythat he believes that to take this action is in the best interests of those people. But there is a dearth of evidence to confirm the Government's view that the action it is taking is in the best interests and is considered to be in the best interests of those people. After all, if we look at the recent past history of performance by the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs and the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in Canberra, there is really not much evidence to suggest that there has been greater efficiency, greater sympathy or greater empathy flowing from the Department in Canberra than there has been from the Department in Queensland. 1 do not want this debate to proceed on a basis of a comparison of the Departments. I want to draw attention to the fact that no evidence has been produced so far, notwithstanding the debate just a few nights ago on the motion that the House adjourns, which would indicate that the action being taken by the Government is other than an action taken at its whim and probably against the will of a majority of the people who are living in the reserve communities in Queensland. This Bill really raises the question of the administration of Aboriginal affairs in Australia. It raises then the question of whether the Commonwealth at the moment- and I emphasise 'at the moment'- is in any position to look at anyone else and say: 'We know better. We can implement better than you can.' The Commonwealth's history since the change of government was admirably summed up by the Minister himself when he said that the implementation of the Government's policy had been a disaster. I just would add that it continues to be, notwithstanding the best efforts of the Minister who apparently is not receiving the sort of support from his Department that he would like. 
I evidence, in relation to that, an example which occurred the other day when the Minister during a debate replied to  Senator Lawrie. Senator Lawrie  had said that public funds had been spent by the Minister's Department on transporting people to the Weipa conference held in October. The Minister denied this and denied it positively. I know the Minister well enough to know that he is a man who says what he believes and believes what he says. When he denied it positively he would not have done it carelessly. He would not have done it without having a reasonable basis for believing what he said was accurate. That belief must have come from his Department. He asserted positively that no such funds had been paid. It happened that I subsequently received affirmative proof of the orders that had been placed by his Department. I have copies of the orders for transport with the various charter services which were used. 
I did ask a further question drawing the Minister 's attention to the situation and asking whether he had reconsidered the matter. He then did reconsider it, sought further information and obtained information which he supplied to the Senate in a statement, the unfortunate aspect of which was that although it did state that $4,800 had been spent of Commonwealth funds- notwithstanding the fact that the Minister had denied that previously- it did not in any way explain how the Minister came to be misled and how the Minister came to mislead the Senate. It did not explain that in any way. I can only assume that there was- as there has been in so many other areas- a breakdown between the Minister and his Department. Either he was prepared to assert something positively without knowing- I do not think that that is the case and I do not suggest it is the case- or, alternatively, he was clearly misled by his Department. I wonder whether, in relation to this Bill, he has not been misled in some way. The evidence would tend to support the view that a large number of the elected councils on the various reserves in Queensland do not want some of the provisions in this Bill. I read, only as an example, a telegram which I received from  Mr John  Watson,  Chairman,  Palm Island Council, Townsville. 
The Minister may have a look at the telegram and work out who sent it. 
This is dated on a different day to that which  Senator Bishop's  investigations covered. I do not want to re-debate last week's nonsense that the Minister raised in this place. We debated that matter the other day. I simply reassert that I believe people are entitled to make their views known by telegram. It does not really matter who sends the telegram for them. While speaking about telegrams I will refer to some that the Minister has sent. I will read a telegram which is addressed to me at Parliament House, Canberra. It states: 
Still concerned with new legislation. Please take no action on legislation till you hear our side. New legislation will undermine council authority and Palm Island way of Iiic. 
That telegram was signed by John Watson,  Chairman  of the Palm Island Council, Townsville. If the Minister and other honourable senators on the other side of the chamber, believe that they are acting in the best interests of these people, it seems extraordinary to me that all the evidence which comes to me is totally against that conclusion. As was made clear last week, people from the various councils around Queensland- for instance, Mornington Council -object to the proposal in the Bill concerning the permit to enter Aboriginal reserves. The telegram from that council states: 
Proposed law should be discussed by Advisory Council before any action by Australian Government. 
That telegram is signed by Nelson Gavenor,  Chairman  of the Aboriginal Council. That telegram was also sent on a date different from the day on which we discussed some telegrams last week. There were more than 20 telegrams. There were 22 telegrams. I think the Minister referred to 2 1 telegrams but I think that there must have been one that he did not have last week. 
Yes, with good reason- if I can just inject a little lightness into a serious matter. Further telegrams which I have received, include one from Les Stewart,  Chairman  of Cherbourg Aboriginal Council and of the Queensland Aboriginal Advisory Council. In a telegram to me he said: 
On behalf of the Aboriginal Advisory Council I wish to strongly object to the present Bill before Parliament whereby present Councils will have no right to determine who visits and resides on their communities. We object to any new law which will take away our tribal right. We ask you to support us in every way to make sure we retain our rights. We assure you we have not even been consulted as to our views or wishes in regard to proposed new law. Further telegrams of protest sent to Prime Minister . . . Senators Cavanagh Lawrie Bonner Leader of the Opposition  Mr Snedden  and  Mr Anthony  Leader of the National Party. 
That telegram is signed by Les Stewart,  Chairman  of the Cherbourg Aboriginal Council and Queensland Aboriginal Advisory Council. There are such a large number of telegrams of expressions of view that I find it very difficult to accept that all of these people are, over a period of time, simply acting on the instructions of or being directed by the Premier of Queensland, as was suggested the other day. The telegrams 1 have read today are ones which have been sent in the past few days, since the debate on the adjournment when the matter of telegrams was raised by the Minister. I think we can take it even further than that and say that, in relation to Aboriginal Affairs administration throughout Australia, the attitude of many is exemplified in this telegram which was sent to me from Alice Springs, lt states: 
Crucial time in Aboriginal affairs. Aboriginal affairs must be taken out of the inflexible archaic bureaucratic institutions of Australian Public Service and a national Aboriginal statutory commission control and operated by elected Aboriginal people with a secretariat to implement its decisions. Well intentioned Labor Government Aboriginal policies are being screwed up. 
Using that word seems to have become popular lately. It continues: 
. And destroyed by Department of Aboriginal Affairs at the expense of our people. Widespread dissatisfaction with Department of Aboriginal Affairs amongst our people. Our views must be taken seriously. 
That was signed by the Central Australian Aboriginal Congress. I mention it as some further indication of the views which have been expressed by Aboriginal people in Australia in the past week or two in relation to the administration of Aboriginal affairs by this Commonwealth Government. If we go further - 
Yes, I am going to read some more. I have another one sent by  Mr Les  Stewart to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on 2 December which is worth reading. It states: 
After knowing what is in your Bill we are unable to accept assurances of  Senator Cavanagh  that we need not fear and all is well. It is our tribal right to say who we will accept and reject on reserves. We must retain this right otherwise there is reason for considerable fears as to our well being and our future. We sincerely hope you will respect our rights and delete from your Bill such clauses referring to entry and residence. 
I do not think it is unreasonable when one has regard to the telegrams which I have read out to believe that there is at least a case for demonstrating that consultation has taken place. Is it not part of the Government's policy that there should be a right to self-determination amongst Aboriginal people? Is it not part of the Government's policy that there should be consultation with Aboriginal people? Yet these telegrams claim that there has not been adequate consultation. These telegrams claim that the people do not want what the Government is trying to force on them. I believe that we in the Senate would not be carrying out our duty were we to permit this Bill to be passed today without some demonstration, by way of a poll or otherwise, that this did reflect the wishes of the people concerned. My colleague  Senator Bonner  will be able to speak in some greater detail on that aspect. 
What have been the results of the approach of this Government to Aboriginal affairs? Tents have been erected outside Parliament House, protests have been mounted against the Government's administration through the Department. We find that confrontations are being deliberately brought on between the Aboriginal people and either the Minister or the Department. There was a very dangerous situation not so long ago involving the New South Wales Legal Aid Service, when the Minister at first decided upon a confrontation policy while he was engaged in a tour of the north west of Australia. Fortunately, shortly afterwards he decided to pull back from the extreme confrontation which he had precipitatedand I applaud him for pulling back because I think that it was in the best interests of the administration of Aboriginal affairs in Australia that that confrontation which had been called on by the Minister was avoided. We also find protests being made in relation to almost all aspects of the administration of Aboriginal affairs. I am surprised to find myself in possession of a letter which again gives some idea of the way in which the policy on Aboriginal affairs in Australia is being administered. 
Because it came to me by an unknown means. I do not know how it came to me, and I was just going to explain what it purports to be. It is a letter written by one Fred Fogarty from the Northern Territory. It refers to an aspect of the administration of Aboriginal affairs. I believe that there is a sufficient likelihood of its having a foundation to warrant my reading from it. It says, amongst other things, that so far as his case was concerned:   . . the case was adjourned, sine die, a Latin word that means in the future, in my case it means never as the AttorneyGeneral Murphy rang Friday afternoon instructing my solicitor and the Crown Prosecutor what to do. I have an assurance that my case will never come to trial. 
When something like this happens there is always someone in the Legislative Council that comes close to guessing the truth, in this case Letts. 
He goes on to comment about a debate which took place in the Legislative Council. It refers to guessing the truth'. In other words, he was apparently one with sufficient perspicacity to see what had happened. 
This is the claim which is made in this letter which I will be happy to table. I want to read something further from it. 
You have my assurance that I will table it. It continues: 
I can safely say I am out of the woods, thinking back on all the riots in the NT, we are the only one that ever got away with it, funny, ours was the most serious we burnt and bashed the white man with chains and chased them to buggery the other only ran rampage, maybe threw a few spears, yet they got gaoled. 
It is signed 'Fred Fogarty', and attached to it is a report of the court proceedings.  Mr Fogarty  's case was reported in the Darwin Press as having been adjourned sine die upon the application of  Mr Fogarty  's counsel, which was not opposed by the Crown Prosecutor. 
I want to read this letter as to what he says happened - 
It is dated 20 February 1974. 1 want to read what he says happened, so far as the Attorney-General was concerned, and the claim that he makes in relation to what is apparently the attitude of this man towards the administration of Aboriginal affairs in the Northern Territory. 
I do not know, but it starts off by saying: 'Hullo dear friends at the National Black Theatre'. So I presume that it was addressed to someone at the National Black Theatre. I do not know any more than that. That is the letter. It is a letter which claims that the AttorneyGeneral intervened and directed that the case should not proceed, that it should be adjourned sine die. 
I raise it with the Minister so that he may be able to explain to us some time later why the case was adjourned, who intervened, why they intervened, whether it was after discussion with the Minister or not, and whether it is a fact that  Senator Murphy  did intervene. The case was undoubtedly adjourned, and  Mr Fogarty  felt that he had been able to obtain a freedom. I think it is a matter of curiosity why the Attorney-General should intervene in that way. I think it is a matter of some reasonable curiosity as to why the case was later continued. The Minister may be able to answer. It is the expression of a view, though, about the administration of Aboriginal affairs in Australia. 
Returning to the matters more closely related to this Bill, I suggest to honourable senators that it would be difficult to claim that the record of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in Canberra is so good that it can claim that all wisdom and administrative efficiency reside with it and that there is none in the Department in Queensland. I think it would be very difficult for us to assume that the people living on the reserves in Queensland wish to have this type of legislation imposed upon them. But if it is so, and it is demonstrated to be so, obviously the Parliament should accede to those wishes and pass the legislation. But until that is demonstrated I think there is a very strong case for believing that the people do not wish to see their right to remain protected by the restricted entry provisions in relation to reserves taken away from them. 
For that reason it is the Opposition's view that debate on this Bill should be adjourned to enable the Government to consult with the Aboriginal people living in the reserve communities in the State of Queensland and with their elected councils and other representative bodies, and further to ascertain, by a poll taken within those communities, the wishes of those people in relation to future restrictions upon the right of entry to those community areas. The procedure which will be adopted to assert that view is something which I will come to shortly. But I will summarise in this way: I think that we jointly share a concern to see that any legislation is in the best interests of, in this case, the Aboriginal people of Queensland. 
The 2 things may be synonymous. I do not pause to debate that, and I would not expect the Minister to agree that they were synonymous. There are others who might assert that the 2 things are synonymous, and in fact a number of the Aboriginal leaders in Queensland would assert that they are synonymous. The 2 things are the best interests of the Aboriginal people of Queensland and the interests of preserving a non-socialist government in Queensland. But it is a joint view that the interests of Aborigines in Queensland should be served. In the absence of any evidence to suggest that the Aborigines want the withdrawal of this restriction, and when there is a very strong prima facie case that they do not want it to be withdrawn but prefer to retain the protection which they regard that it gives to them, it is our view that this Government is not acting in their best interests in proceeding with this legislation. 
We shall attempt to adjourn the debate on the Bill. If we fail to adjourn it we shall vote against the clauses that are opposed by those members of the Aboriginal communities who have made their views known by way of telegram and other contact both to the Government and the Opposition. At a later stage today I would propose that we move that the debate be adjourned. If that is carried, on the motion that the resumption of the debate be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting or for a later hour, whichever the Minister would like, I would move that it be the first day of sitting in March 1975, to enable the Government to consult the Aboriginal people living in the reserve communities in Queensland, their elected councils and other bodies and further to ascertain, by poll taken within those communities, the wishes of those people in relation to future restrictions upon the right of entry to those community areas. The Opposition parties simply wish to see that the people are consulted, that their views are taken into account and that a Big Brother socialist government does not dictate to them what it thinks is in their best interests as opposed to what they think is in their best interests. This appears to us at the moment to be what is happening. We would need some sort of evidence such as a certified poll to indicate that what the Government proposes by way of removal of restrictions and the protection that it affords is in their best interests. 
The restriction is no more than a restriction against an unqualified right of entry by any outsiders on to the reserve areas. It is regarded obviously by a large number of chairmen of the councils and by the councils of these Aboriginal communities as providing them with a protection which they value and which they think enables them to enjoy their life on the reserves free from interference which is unwanted by them. I can fully recognise that one would not expect to have that type of restriction imposed in our type of society, but if communities desire to have it and desire to continue to enjoy it and if it is quite clear that they do, why should they not be able to enjoy it? I put that very strongly. I ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs to consider paying particular attention to that point in his reply. Why should not people who want this sort of restriction be entitled to have it? Until such time as a poll has been taken in those communities there is an obvious difference of opinion as to whether they want it. There is certainly sufficient prima facie evidence to indicate that they are not anxious to change the current situation. For those reasons the Opposition will seek to have the debate adjourned with a view to moving that it be adjourned to 1 March so that a poll can be taken. If that motion is not successful we will at the Committee stage vote against the provisions of the Bill to which exception is taken. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Milliner)-  Before I call  Senator Keeffe,  you indicated,  Senator Rae,  that you wish to seek leave to table some documents. 
Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I do. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I think the Minister has misunderstood me. May I explain again so that he does not spend a lot of time taking a point of order? If I may intervene by leave of the Senate, I suggested that there be a motion to adjourn the debate. If that were carried the next motion would be for the resumption of the debate. I would seek to word that motion in terms that I have supplied to the Acting  Deputy President.  So the procedure is not in breach of standing order 431. 
I have endeavoured to be cooperative. That is what it boils down to. I have tried to enable this matter to be debated so that views could be expressed because we seek an opportunity for a poll of the views of the Queensland Aboriginal reserve community people to be taken. 
The best way to enable that to be done is to move for the adjournment in the way that I have suggested. If the Minister wishes to propose another course of action I do not think it will make any major difference provided there is an opportunity for everyone who wishes to speak to speak and there is a clear opportunity for us to have a vote on the concept. The concept is that the Bill should not become law until a poll has been taken. If the Minister wishes to propose another course I will try to be co-operative. 
I do not see that as being as efficient in this case because it does not carry any impact unless the Minister gives me an undertaking, if that motion were carried, that he would not proceed with the second reading. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I have considered standing order 431. The question before the Senate is that the Bill be read a second time.  Senator Rae  has indicated that it is proposed to move an amendment. He has not moved the amendment. In those circumstances I rule that there is no merit in the point of order. 
I seek leave to make my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
It has been drawn to my attention that some further sections of the Northern Territory Social Welfare Ordinance were not referred to by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  when he was talking about the Northern Territory a short time ago. They include section 1 8, which refers to the suspension of the right to enter or remain upon a reserve. It states: 
Where a welfare officer who is so authorised is satisfied that the behaviour of a person who has such a right and is on a reserve is such that it is desirable for the maintenance of order on the reserve that the person should not be on the reserve or a part of the reserve, he may declare to the person that the person 's right to enter or remain on the reserve, or on such part of the reserve as the welfare officer specifies, is suspended for such period not exceeding thirty days as the welfare officer specifies. 
Section 18(1) states: 
The Administrator may, by writing under his hand, authorise a welfare officer to suspend the right of a person to enter and remain on a reserve. 
The decision is made by a welfare officer. A 'welfare officer' is defined in the Ordinance as being: 
The Director of Social Welfare or a person appointed under this Ordinance to be a welfare officer. 
So this person is a government nominee and not a person elected by the Aboriginal people living on the reserve concerned. 
I reiterate briefly, notwithstanding what the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  has said in his second reading speech, that the Opposition believes that the people who are directly involved- the people who are the members of the communities in the reserve areas in Queensland- do not wish to have the law as proposed in clauses 6 and 7 of this Bill imposed upon them. During the debate last week on the motion for the second reading of the Bill we referred to the evidence which clearly indicates that that is the desire of those people. We believe that we will be responding to their wishes by opposing these 2 clauses. We will not oppose the remainder of the Bill. 
We endeavoured last week to obtain agreement from the Government to further consideration of the Bill being deferred until 1 March next year so that a poll could be taken of the people residing in those communities to ascertain for sure their views. The Government opposed that proposal, which we thought was a democratic proposal. In the light of the Government's opposition to that we have been left with only one course of action, that is, to act in the way in which we have been requested to act by the Queensland Aboriginal Advisory Council and by the  chairman  of most of the Aboriginal councils in the various communities, and oppose the inclusion in the Bill of clauses 6 and 7 which relate to the rights of entry into and residence on reserves in Queensland. The people themselves and their councils wish to retain certain restrictions and do not wish this Bill to go ahead with the inclusion of those 2 provisions. Therefore the Opposition will oppose the inclusion in the Bill of clauses 6 and 7. 
I wish to add a little to what has been said. I do not wish to detain the Senate for too long knowing the anxiety which prevails to ensure that the legislation is passed and people can return to their electorates. Talking of electorates I am reminded of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones),  the honourable member for Newcastle, who made a famous statement which appealed to Tasmanians no end, that there were more votes in Newcastle than there were in Tasmania, so why worry about Tasmania. He endeared himself as he has in so many other statements he has made about Tasmania. I refer to the withdrawal of the air subsidy for the Bass Strait islands and all sorts of other things which have so adversely affected the interests of Tasmania and in particular the interests of the people with whom we are concerned in the Bill tonight, the people of King Island. 
This same gentleman,  Mr Charles  Jones, the honourable member for Newcastle, made some statements which are reported on page 4557 of the House of Representatives Hansard of 4 December 1974 which are so demonstrably untrue that I wish to take a little time to demonstrate how untrue they are. I think people can gauge the veracity and the general political honesty of the Government if they note what happened in this instance.  Mr Jones,  the Minister for Transport, said: 
When this problem first arose with the 'Straitsman' being taken off the King Island run he literally lived on my door step. 
He', I interpose, was  Mr Davies. Mr Jones  continued: 
He was never out of my office- putting propositions to me about what could be done. I did not receive one word of representation from a member of the Liberal or Country parties or from one Liberal Tasmanian senator. They had no interest in this matter whatsoever. Not one of them made any representations to me. They could not give a damn what happened to the 'Straitsman ' or to the King Island trade. Let us git the facts clear. These are the facts. 

 - Senator Cavanagh, the Minister at the table, knows very well that that is a total and absolute untruth. 
I thank the Minister for the interjection. If I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport I expect it to get to the Minister for Transport. If I am wrong I would be glad to be notified. More important than the question, to which I shall refer in a moment, is the statement of the Minister for Transport. He said: 
They had no interest in this matter whatsoever. 
They had sufficient interest, as has already been referred to, to move in the Senate that a select committee- the Senate Select Committee on Shipping Services between King Island, Stanley and Melbourne- be established to investigate the matter and to report. Three Tasmanian senators were members of that Committee.  Senator Wright  was the  Chairman. Senator Townley  and I were the other 2 members. We presented a report. Whether the report was accurate and whether it was the best possible assessment of the situation does not matter for the purposes of this debate. The fact is that the Government eventually acted on the report. The fact is that the State Government responded to it, as did the Federal Government. That is how we happen to be debating this Bill tonight. The State Government decided, as recommended by that Committee, to purchase the 'Straitsman'. The Federal Government decided- this, too, was recommended generally by that Committee- that funds should be made available for the purchase. If that, according to  Mr Charles  Jones, is taking no interest- bearing in mind that 2 members of the Liberal Party and one independent Liberal  Senator comprised  the 3 members of that Committee- it does seem somewhat extraordinary use of the English language in which  Mr Jones  is engaging. 
I have here a stack of copies of Hansard containing questions that I have asked in relation to the King Island shipping service- apart from the questions asked by  Senator Wright, Senator Marriott  and former  Senator Lillico-  throughout the whole period to which  Mr Jones  was referring. I have copies of Hansard containing some of the debates that we have had in this place. On 12 April 1973 1 drew attention to the fact that we were having great difficulty in getting the Minister to give certain information to us in relation to the King Island shipping service. I then said: 
We have asked him repeatedly and he has not produced them. 
I was referring to the reports. I then asked: 
What is he trying to hide? What is the Tasmanian Government trying to hide . . . 
Thank you,  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. I will come to him also. I do not like lying and I do not like people who lie. I should like to categorise in that way what  Mr Jones  said but I am not allowed to do so by parliamentary procedure. I simply say that I will proceed to demonstrate the lack of truth in the statement that he made. On 23 August 1973 in a debate in the Senate, I said: 
I have visited the Island since the decision to restore the Straitsman' to the Island service was taken by the Tasmanian Government, following the very considerable pressure which we applied to get it to take the decision, and I have had discussions with a number of representatives of the various organisations and bodies on the Island. 
I should like to pick at random a few of the questions that I have asked. On 15 March 1973 I asked this question: 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is it a fact that one or more reports have been received by the Government relating to the investigation of the suitability of the ship 'Straitsman' for the King Island shipping service, to the appropriate type of ship to provide for the service and to considerations relating to the viability of a shipping service to King Island? If so, will the Minister make those reports available to all interested persons, particularly the residents of King Island, by tabling them in this chamber? 
The Minister,  Senator Cavanagh,  said, amongst other things: 
The Australian National Line has been instructed to purchase the 'Straitsman '. 

 Senator Cavanagh came to regret that statement afterwards because if I remember correctly, he was caught in a change of policy. He said in good faith- I do not for a moment impute other than good faith to  Senator Cavanagh-  what he believed at the time to be the fact. But the Government had changed its mind, and we have come to expect this of the Government. As fast as it makes a decision one way it changes its mind, and without telling anybody it is off in a different direction. I felt somewhat sorry for  Senator Cavanagh,  but I felt all the more sorry for the people of King Island who were so totally confused about this matter. But on 15 March 1973  Senator Cavanagh  concluded his answer- I again say he said this in good faith because he was saying what I have no doubt the Minister for Transport had obviously told him to say was the Government's policy, but that policy was quickly reversed- by saying: 
I can assure the honourable senator that the service will be operating in the future. 
What he did not say perhaps was how long the future was to take. It took a long time. 
There are all sorts of other quotes to which I could refer. Perhaps I could refer to the question I asked on 14 March 1973, which was the day before the day on which I asked the previous question to which I have referred. I asked the Minister: 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Bearing in mind that the ship 'Straitsman' was built especially for the service from King Island to Tasmania and Victoria, will the Minister lay on the table all documents relating to the negotiations between the owners of the ship 'Straitsman' or their representatives . . . and the Government in respect to the reintroduction of that ship into the service for which it was built at a cost of $ 1.5m? 
The Minister,  Senator Cavanagh,  who in this chamber represents the Minister for Transport,  Mr Charles  Jones, stated: 
I will refer to the Minister for Transport the matter of laying papers on the table and ascertain whether he is prepared to do so. 
If the Minister in this chamber did not do that, then perhaps  Mr Charles  Jones could be excused. But if  Senator Cavanagh,  as I would expect him to do, relayed that matter to the Minister whom he represents, then  Mr Jones  has no basis of fact upon which he can make his statement. I cite another example. On 8 May 1973 I again asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport about the serious shipping shortage. The Minister said that he would refer my question to the Minister for Transport to see what could be done. That question was answered on 5 June by the Minister providing an answer which was supplied by the Minister for Transport. On 16 May 1973 1 asked: 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Transport indicate what is happening in relation to the proposal to restore the ship 'Straitsman' on a temporary basis to the King Island service? Is the Minister aware that the position in relation to Bass Strait island shipping to King Island and Flinders Island is now becoming extremely serious? 

 Mr Deputy President, I remind you that those were my words in this chamber on 16 May 1973 when I was referring to the extremely serious nature of the situation and seeking some action by this dilatory Government.  Mr Jones,  on 4 December last- just a few days ago- said in the House of Representatives: 
I did not receive one word of representation from a member of the Liberal or Country Parties . . . Not one of them made any representations to me. They could not give a damn what happened to the 'Straitsman' . . . 
I could go on for a very long time through this large stack of questions which I asked in this chamber without - 
Without success, it has been said. That is right. The Government was not responsive to the needs of the people of King Island. It could not give a damn, to use the words of  Mr Jones.  Eventually the Tasmanian Government responded to pressure placed on it by Liberal Party members, both State and Federal. 
That is right. I said that 'could not give a damn ' were the words which he used. I simply say that it was the Government which could not give a damn. 
Could not give a damn' are the words used by the Minister. On 16 May  Senator Cavanagh  answered my question by stating: 
No definite plans have been presented to the Commonwealth in respect of any proposal to hire the 'Straitsman' . . . 
The Minister went on with a number of other aspects of the matter. On 6 June another question was asked about the King Island shipping service when, in response, the Minister stated: 
Prior to the election and since the election this Government promised to subsidise shipping services to King Island. 
I wanted to refer to this aspect because I would like to know where the subsidy is. This brings me to the other point which I want to make tonight. What we have given to the people of King Island and the people of Tasmania is a pretty poor deal. The Government makes a straight out grant of $1.5m to Western Australia for its coastal shipping service, and a grant for the railway through Central Australia. I do not decry the needs or interests of the people of Western Australia, Central Australia or the Northern Teritory but I point out that for the people of Central Australia and the Northern Territory this year there is to be a subsidy of $6m. The Government is making a loan to Tasmania to enable the State to purchase the 'Straitsman'. No grant element is involved in it at all. It is a loan which has to be repaid and upon which interest is payable. It is, in effect, nothing. 
Thank you,  Senator Bessell.  It is a magnificent gesture on the part of this Government to help King Island, is it not, because what is directly reflected in the result of this is a much higher freight rate than would otherwise apply if the Government had carried out its promise. I refer again to  Senator Cavanagh  's answer on 6 June in which he said: 
Prior to the election and since the election this Government promised to subsidise shipping services to King Island. 
He went on to state later in the same answer: 
I am sure that the Commonwealth would subsidise the operation by the Tasmanian Government of any shipping service it provides to King Island. 
I would like to know the details of the subsidy. All I know at the moment is that what we have got is a loan to the Tasmanian Government to enable it to buy this ship. It is loan which has to be repaid and it is a loan upon which interest is payable. This must be reflected in the cost structure of the operation of the service. All sorts of other questions have been raised over the months. I do not take up the time of the Senate further, other than to say that if anybody would like to assert that there was any vestige of truth in the statement of  Mr Charles  Jones that we were disinterested, that we made no representations and that we did nothing about King Island, I will refer that person in detail to all the passages recorded in Senate Hansard, in addition to the Press cuttings, correspondence and the other matters which prove that in this respect  Mr Jones  was behaving as so many other members of this Government have behaved. They have behaved in a way that leaves a gigantic credibility gap when their statements are examined. 
While I support this Bill, I do so with regret. I do so with reservations and with an expression of concern. My concern is that this money ought to have been made available, or at least a significant part of it, by way of grant if the Government were to act in the way it has treated other parts of Australia. I support the Bill with the regret that the Government has not seen fit to honour its promise that it would either direct the Australian National Line to operate this service on a basis of picking up the cost of any loss or subsidise the service. The best it has been prepared to do is to make available a loan repayable with interest. As I said, with regret I shall support the Bill. My regret is limited to the fact that the Government has not honoured its promises and given a reasonable deal to the people of King Island and to the people of Tasmania. 
I present the following petition from 46 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That whereas the Governments of the United Kingdom, United States of America, Canada and many European countries have not recognised the unlawful annexation of the Baltic States- Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia- by the Soviet Union, the Prime Minister of Australia has authorised the de jure recognition of this annexation. 
According to the Charter of the United Nations, the BalticStates are entitled to independence and their people to selfdetermination. 
We beg that such de jure recognition be disallowed. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs: Did he authorise his ministerial colleague,  Mr Bryant,  to publish to the Public Accounts Committee of the Parliament some 250 pages of confidential and other documents of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs? If not, does the Minister propose to take any action in regard to  Mr Bryant?  Is so, what action? What steps is the Minister taking following the. accusations made on oath by  Mr Bryant  that his departmental head,  Mr Dexter,  had committed perjury, had been disloyal, was incapable of communicating with his Minister and was directly responsible for financial irregularities in the Department? Who does the Minister believe to be the one who is telling the truth,  Mr Bryant  or  Mr Dexter? 
-The Opposition supports the Aboriginal Land Fund Bill 1 974, the purpose of which is to assist Aboriginal communities to acquire land outside Aboriginal reserves. The Bill had its genesis in an initiative taken by the former Liberal-Country Party Government in 1971 and it is something which we, of course, totally support. We are glad to see that the proposals are being proceeded with. We do not wish to delay the Senate by making long speeches, reiterating the reasons for our support for the legislation. I refer honourable senators to the comments which were made by  Mr Hunt  when this Bill was being debated in the House of Representatives. I adopt in general the remarks which he made in relation to the Bill. At that time he raised a number of matters in relation to the administration of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. I know that that is a matter which, in many ways, is deserving of a lengthy debate at the earliest possible opportunity. I look forward to such a debate taking place upon the resumption of this chamber in the new year. By then the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  will have had a little more time in which to put his house in order and we hope that he will be able to give us some better news than he could if we were to debate the matter tonight. 
However, I take the opportunity, in dealing with a matter relating to Aboriginal Affairs, to raise again a matter which I raised during question time today; that is, the rather extraordinary situation which has arisen, namely that a former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and current member of the present Government should, without the present Minister's authority, be prepared to table to a committee, without compulsion, some 250 pages of confidential departmental documents and that he also should be prepared to make against the Secretary of that Department,  Mr Dexter,  a series of extremely serious charges, including perjury, disloyalty, incapacity to communicate with his ministerial head, and being responsible for financial irregularities in the Department. I want to take the opportunity just to reiterate the seriousness with which the Opposition regards the present situation in which one Minister in the present Government is accusing a departmental head of matters of such seriousness. I do not think it is appropriate for the present Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Senator Cavanagh,  to pass this off by saying: 'Well, it is a matter really for the Public Accounts Committee to sort out'. I think it is more serious than that. I do not want to delay the Senate tonight other than to stress to you,  Mr Minister,  the seriousness with which we view the situation. I call upon you to act one way or another to determine the matter. 
I think that one way or another the matter needs to be brought to some sort of finality. I am not going to suggest here tonight the ways in which it could be done. I do not want to provoke a lengthy debate; I simply take the opportunity to stress the seriousness of the situation. It is not something which can be just passed off as if it had not happened. 
I return to the Bill by saying that we believe the Bill will achieve desirable objectives in ensuring that the Aboriginal people of Australia will have through this legislation a further opportunity to acquire land- land which is extremely important to them, land for which they have an affinity which many white people do not quite understand, land which has a relationship and a meaning to them which, as I say, many white people do not really understand. I believe it is tremendously important that this opportunity for obtaining land for Aboriginal communities outside the reserves should be pursued. I assure the Minister that he has the total support of the Opposition in pursuing this objective. I also mention that my colleague  Senator Bonner  has some remarks which he wishes to make in relation to the Bill. The Opposition will support the passage of the Bill. 
Can the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs explain to the Senate the delay that is occurring in providing funds to the National Council of Aboriginal and Island Women? Is it a fact that the substantive submission in relation to those funds has been with his Department for more than 6 months? The year 1975 has been declared as International Women's Year and $2m has been allocated to fund women's groups and promote women's causes. Does the Minister understand the frustration and dissatisfaction being experienced by the National Council of Aboriginal and Island Women when large sums of money are to be allocated to other women's groups in Australia and it has not received any finality in relation to its submission? Will the 
Minister finalise this matter without further delay? 
In directing a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate I refer to an earlier answer which he gave to a question regarding the increase in the price of Australian crude oil. Is it not a fact that in April 1972 a spokesman on behalf of the then Opposition,  Dr Patterson,  stated that one of the first acts of an Australian Labor Party government on reaching office would be to raise the Australian domestic crude oil price to world parity? Is it also a fact that in December 1972 in an interview immediately after his appointment as Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Connor  stated that that would be one of the first steps to be taken by him? Is it not a fact that the Government has not done that although at the time of those statements it pointed out that vital exploration for oil in Australia would be curtailed unless there was some increase in the price of Australian domestic crude? Will the Minister explain this aspect of the Government's zig zag policies? 
-The hour is late and I do not wish to pursue this matter to any great extent. But I think that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  did not fully reply to the point raised. It is a matter of genuine concern. The Minister has offered to discuss this matter with Opposition members who are concerned about it. I propose to accept his offer to discuss it further. I simply make the point that the matters raised by  Senator Bonner  have not been answered. Maybe at some time the Minister can make a statement which will clarify the matter for the benefit of both the Senate and the people of Australia who may be able to take advantage of the legislation which was passed last year. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 12.9 a.m. 
Is the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs deliberately pursuing a policy of confrontation in Aboriginal affairs or have media reports of his actions in Alice Springs last weekend and immediately prior to his visit there misrepresented him? What action had been taken by him prior to last weekend to introduce the promised detoxification units in Alice Springs and elsewhere? When will they be available and in operation? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. Does the Minister know- if he does not will he cause inquiries to be made to ascertain whether it is correct- that there is now a sign in the casualty and outpatients department of the 
Royal Hobart Hospital which says, inter alia, that hospital and medical staff have obligations as regards the giving of certain information to the Press and radio relating to patients? What are those obligations and why does the Government allow this invasion of privacy to occur now that the Tasmanian Labor Government has just agreed to nationalise the delivery of medical care in Tasmania? How can the Minister maintain that personal medical matters will remain private under a nationalised system when hospital staff have obligations to make such matters public? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. With what degree of urgency is the survey being conducted of problems of Aboriginal evacuees from Darwin who are now throughout various parts of Australia? When does the Minister expect the report of the survey to be available? What number of Aboriginal evacuees have returned to Darwin so far, or approximately what number, if the Minister can give some indication? What number are still accommodated elsewhere in Australia. What are some of their main problems and what is being done about them? 
-This Bill seeks to create a statutory body out of the Australian Council for the Arts which was established under a Liberal-Country Party Government in 1968. The Bill is supported in its broad terms by the Opposition. I will refer to the reservations we have about some aspects of the Bill but those reservations are not such as would be likely to lead to irreparable damage being done. Accordingly we do not intend to delay passage of the Bill by moving amendments. Passage of the Bill already has been substantially delayed because it has been around for nearly 12 months, lt is somewhat surprising that there has not been a greater sense of urgency on the part of the Minister in charge of this matter, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  in bringing it on earlier. The Bill did come on for debate in the House of Representatives on 20 February 1975. The formal attitude of the Opposition in relation to it is set out in detail in the speech given by  Mr Garland,  the honourable member for Curtin, on behalf of the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Snedden,  who was not able to be in Canberra at that time. It appears at page 589 of Hansard for the House of Representatives on 20 February. Therefore I do not intend taking up the time of the Senate to repeat the attitude of the Opposition which was set forth in the House of Representatives debate. Both sides are agreed that the Bill should be given a speedy passage so that it can come into operation quickly. 
I repeat that the Opposition supports the principle of the creation of the statutory Commission, notwithstanding the severe misgivings that quite a large sector of the community has about, it. I have received a great deal of correspondence relating to this matter. No doubt Government supporters also received considerable representation from various areas of people interested in the development of the arts in Australia expressing their views about various aspects associated with the Bill. I believe that we have to try and that we have to experiment. If it is proved to us that the fears and reservations which some people hold are well founded then there should be change, experience having shown the shortcomings. I do not think it is sufficient cause to hold up passage of legislation such as this simply to say that there is a large and quite significant number of people who have various sorts of reservations about its likelihood of achieving what is an agreed objective. 
One thing is clear about this Bill and that is that both sides of the chamber have agreed objectives. Those agreed objectives include the development for Australia, for Austalians, of a standard of excellence in the arts, a widening of access to the arts, an understanding and application of the arts in the community generally, the establishment and expression of an Australian identity through the arts, and the promotion abroad of an awareness of Australian culture. There are many people, including those currently described as ockers or those who follow the attitude of knocking those things cultural, who would say that Australia has never had a cultural base, is never likely to have one and should not ought to try- if I can put it in those terms. 
Yes, I just wanted to use it. That is typical of the approach to be deplored. I do not suggest for a moment that we should be forcing upon people who do not wish to be associated with the arts a necessary involvement for so many hours of the day, or whatever it might be, with various aspects of our culutral development, but I do think that as a community it is highly desirable that we do everything we reasonably can to develop and broaden the appreciation of the cultural side of life and to broaden the opportunity for participation, whether it be as an artist or as a consumer. 
One of the things which perhaps has been neglected in the past is specific encouragement of the consumer as opposed to encouragement of the artist. In saying that, I do not wish to be taken as suggesting in any way that there is not a case for public patronage of the artist by the subventions being made to artists but I do not think this should be done to the exclusion of having regard to the importance of broadening the consumer base. Let me give an example. Is it more desirable to have 2000 people witnessing an opera or a concert and perhaps paying $ 10 a head to see it or to have 10 000 people seeing it and paying $2 a head? In other words, is it better to have more people seeing it at a lower price or fewer people seeing it at a higher price with a similar return to the organisation staging it? I suggest that it is highly desirable that access to any of the various areas of artistic activity should be made as broad as possible. Therefore there needs to be concentration by the Australia Council which will be established by this Bill to ensure the broadening of the consumer base and not simply the patronage of the artists themsel ves. 
I should like very briefly to make a few comments in summary form in relation to particular matters. The Opposition would wish to continue the principle of public patronage of the arts, but it would wish to do so with due regard to the importance of developing the consumer base as well as developing the artistic opportunity given to the artists. We would give some serious consideration to the fact that the present Bill would enable both the Council and the boards to be constituted without a single practitioner of the arts amongst their members. Whilst I do not suggest for a moment that it is the intention of the Government to have that eventuality take place, it seems to us to be undesirable that it can take place. It seems essential that there should be amongst those who are on the Council and the boards an adequate number of people who are practising the arts as well as people who are in one sense or another interested in the arts. The Opposition also sees it as desirable that there should be a wide autonomy for each of the boards responsible for a particular art form. We see it as desirable that each board should be free to implement its own policy and decide staffing and detailed budgetary allocations. This Bill does not give that sort of autonomy to the boards, and we see it as a potential defect. 
It seems desirable that the people who are the experts in a particular field and who are bringing to a particular field of artistic endeavour a business expertise concentrated on that field should, between them, be the ones who could make the maximum number of decisions in relation to that particular field. We do not see it as desirable that there should develop a big brother attitude in relation to the arts through either too much government interference or too much bureaucratic interference. We see either of those situations as undesirable. Where there is public patronage of the arts there is always the possibility that there will develop a big brother attitude towards the development of the arts where the Government knows best or the bureaucracy administering the funds knows best. Again I do not suggest that this is the current situation but I think it is an inherent defect in some aspects of the approach envisaged by the Government under this Bill. 
I notice in the definition clause that the arts are said to include creative and interpretive expressions through theatre, literature, music, visual arts, films and crafts. I am curious that the Government has not accepted the suggestion which was made publicly by the Opposition and which I understand received some support from those connected with the Australian Council for the Arts that the radio and television media should also be included in that definition of the arts, even if only to make sure that no one argues that radio and television were excluded by the failure to put them there. We would also suggest that the Government give some consideration in due course to ensuring that that sort of amendment is made. 
Whilst we support also the objective of drawing forth the members to be appointed to the boards from those who respond to public advertisements, we believe there is some case of strengthening that to ensure that long periods of time do not go by without advertisements being placed to ensure that people who perhaps at some earlier time did not believe they would be likely to be free to participate on a board are given an opportunity to put their name forward as someone interested in playing that role. We think there should be some guarantee that advertisements will at least from some specific period appear and give people the opportunity to be listed. 
Finally, whilst appreciating the need for continued support for established cultural organisations, we believe that support could also be given to a variety of artistic activities. The future health of the arts in Australia hinges on diversity, virility and innovation and widely based community and individual support together with, as I said, a broad based consumer involvement in which people are positively encouraged in the various ways available to the Council to participate, to get to know and to get to appreciate what Australian art has to offer them. 
We take the opportunity to wish the new body well. We totally support its objective and we do not wish to be taken in any way as having done anything other than make some constructive suggestions. We will be looking forward to the opportunity when in government of reconsidering the matters to which I have adverted here or which were adverted to by  Mr Garland  in making a speech on this Bill in the House of Representatives, which I have not taken the time of the Senate to recapitulate on totally. We support the Bill and wish the new Council well. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer to the statement which was made recently by the Prime Minister in Tasmania regarding the takeover by the Commonwealth of the Tasmanian State Railways. I refer also to the statements made by  Senator Cavanagh,  as the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, to the relevant Senate Estimates committee on 22 October last year. He said: 
The policy of the Government is to delete subsidies to railways ... I think there may be further directions to the Commonwealth Railways to meet their own budget in the future. 
I now ask whether that policy will be applied to the Tasmanian Railways if taken over by the Commonwealth. If so, has any estimate been made of the extent to which Tasmanian railway freight rates will be increased to convert the existing $ 10.5m operating loss into a profit? 

 - Mr President, may I ask a supplementary question about one further aspect of the question that I asked? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Is it a fact that a sum of $4,000 was promised by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs to assist in the cost of transporting and accommodating delegates who attended the meeting of the Federal Council for the Advancement of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders which was held in Canberra during Easter? Is it also a fact that although that amount of money was promised, no funds were made available prior to the conference being held, thereby preventing many delegates, particularly from some of the tribal communities, from attending the conference? Was this action deliberate on the part of the Department, or was it just negligence and inefficiency? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the previous Attorney-General,  Mr Justice  Murphy, arranged for an in-depth study of the basis for the making and fixing of legal costs in Australia, or any part thereof; if so, what are the terms of reference of the study. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Media, and I take up the challenge made earlier. Is it a fact that the Australian 
Broadcasting Commission 'Four Corners' program that was prepared for showing last weekend included a segment containing severe criticism of the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Dr Cairns?  Also, is it a fact that following the Saturday showing of that program, a direction was given to the ABC by the Government to delete that section that was critical of  Dr Cairns?  If the Minister is not aware of this instance of political censorship of the ABC, will he make inquiries to ascertain the full facts surrounding the direction to delete that section of the program when it was subsequently replayed? 
Let me commence by saying that I certainly support, as I have in the past, the need for an effective securities commission in Australia. Let me also say that I totally reject any suggestion that the States either have or should have or can effectively have a full role in this field. They have demonstrably failed in the past in an area which, in my belief, was constitutionally intended to be a matter for national control and national approach. Let me further say that I believe that the Liberal and Country Party members of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange have a track record which would gainsay any suggestions of their being a stooge for powerful members of the securities industry, as has been suggested during this debate. 
I believe that the securities industry has a fundamental role to play in Australia, as elsewhere in similar economies, and that those who abuse it are those who would destroy it. In approaching the question, I repeat the need for effective legislation. I make the assertion that this proposed legislation is not, in its present form, effective. I cite but one example at this stage. It is of the utmost importance for an effective watchdog type body to have not only a market surveillance role but also the power to act speedily to prevent matters continuing to take place until such time as proper long term rules can be made to cover the particular eventuality. I think it must be recognised that this is a very fast-moving industry. It is an industry that has within it people whose capacity for finding ways around rules and taking advantage of opportunities that may present themselves is fairly well demonstrated throughout the Senate Committee's report. 
Yet we have a Bill which proposes that the body charged with being an efficient, quickacting body has a rule-making power that takes 44 days to come into effect. I believe that it is no answer for the Government to say, as the Attorney-General said recently in a discussion on this matter in Melbourne, that there is no need for the Commission to have the emergency rulemaking power or the power to make rules as a matter of urgency, because the Government can do that. Surely the whole objective is to have a body that can keep a very close eye on what is happening within the securities industry and act, when it has to act, by taking emergency measures, and for those measures to be of limited duration so that the matter can become part of the normal law of the land through Government action if the Government accepts the recommendation of the Commission to take a particular course. To require the Commission to take 44 days before it can make any form of emergency rule is, I believe, not providing for an effective body. 
I also indicate that I have nothing but contempt for those who express the view that we members of the Opposition are but serving our masters in some way. I have equal contempt for anyone who would wish to approach us as if we should, in some way, serve our masters. The job we all have in this Parliament or in the Senate is to make the capitalist side of our mixed economy operate, to make it work, and to make it likely to serve the purpose that we all believe it should serve in our type of economy. I should like to quote  Mr Casey,  who was speaking as  Chairman  of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission to the first World Congress of Stock Exchanges which was held in Milan in March 1972. He said: 
It is a fact of economic life that the strength of the economy of a free enterprise society will parallel the health and vigour of its securities markets. Economic progress and the welfare and living standards of people throughout the world depend upon the efficiency of their public securities markets. 
I certainly heartily endorse that as a statement of general principle. We must try to make a free, fair, open and efficient capital market in Australia. I believe that the Senate Committee's report demonstrated that in the past there have been numerous defects. I take this opportunity to mention one matter that is often raised. It has often been said that our Committee's report dealt only with an exceptional period of a mining boom. It has been said that this was so exceptional that it is not likely to be repeated. Lord Keynes, who is perhaps still the most famous economist in the world, said at page 159 of his General Theory of Employment': 
Speculators may do no harm as bubbles on a steady stream of enterprise, but the position is serious when enterprise becomes the bubble on a whirlpool of speculation. When the capital development of a country becomes a byproduct of the activities of a casino, the job is likely to be illdone. 
I certainly would subscribe to that. If Lord Keynes's comments were in contemplation of only the one occasion when this might ever happen, he showed incredible foresight. In fact, as is well known, there have been numerous instances of the securities market being turned into something more akin to a casino than to a system of capital formation for the benefit of an economy and a country's development. 
It is no answer for anyone to suggest that a boom similar to the mining boom is not likely to happen again. Such a boom has happened in the past, and the circumstances that could make such a boom happen in the future are still possible, particularly if certain political events take place to make the economy a little more free than it has been of late. 
I believe that there is a clear need for a general review of our securities industry law and our company law and of our whole approach to the structure of corporations and the role of the corporation in society. I was encouraged in this view by reading the British White Paper on Company Law Reform published in July 1973. Of course, that was published under a Conservative government, but it was prepared by that government's advisers. It states: 

 Her Majesty's Government believe that a healthy free enterprise system is essential to the success of our mixed economy. Free enterprise has fulfilled the British desire for freedom and capacity for responsibility in an increasingly better educated, better informed society. It has demonstrated a unique capacity for promoting innovation, and a flexibility that responds to man's ever-changing demands and potential. But any system, however good, must adapt to change. The rules that govern it must relate to the social and economic conditions of the time. It remains the continuing task of government to make sure that the impetus of the system continues to be harnessed to the real needs of the nation and to the interests of all its people. 
With those thoughts in mind, I find it disappointing that this Bill is such a scissor and paste job. What has happened is that much of the Bill has been lifted out of some of our existing State Acts or other securities industry Act, without starting with a concept and asking what are the needs of the future and how can we best provide for them. 
I find it extremely unfortunate that we do not have before us at the same time a companies Bill because, to determine how adequately the Bill before us will deal with the needs of our economy and our people over the ensuing period towards the end of this century, we need to know what will be the appropriate companies law with which this Bill will be in harmony. I believe it is extremely unfortunate that we should have an approach whereby we have part of the companies law being introduced in this Bill and a large pah remaining in State Acts that currently are known as the non-uniform uniform companies Acts. The State legislation and that supposed uniform approach have demonstrably failed. There has been very little success in conducting prosecutions of offenders in the past. What has tended to happen, for example, is that someone has been prosecuted for failing to file an annual return when the real problem is that the person has got away with all the company's money and there is nothing about which to put in a return. We have seen numerous examples, which were referred to in the Senate Committee's report, of excesses, abuses, malpractices and unfortunately distorting actions taking place outside the period of the mineral boom. 
One has only to think of some of the collapses of the period related to the Reid Murray company and the actions taken to prop up and engage in market support in relation to Cox Bros and in relation to a wide variety of types of companies. Other incidents have involved finance companies, commercial companies of various types, and company directors and other people associated directly with companies, as well as others engaged in the securities industry, such as stockbrokers. This unfortunate sequence certainly gainsays any suggestion that we are concerned only with what happened during a particular period of a boom. In dealing with this matter, I should also like to quote from the book by Professor Baxt, the book from which my colleague  Senator Wright  quoted. At page 2, the professor states: 
There are a number of very basic issues which need to be looked at in the context of the 20th century. We must not ignore the fact that our company laws, and our securities laws, because they flow on from this area, although they have been modified and changed over a period of time, following various reports or various disasters or catastrophes, . . . are still based and are still rooted in 19th century traditions and concepts. This is a factor that is often overlooked. What we need to examine closely is the nature and the structure of legislation with regard to what is happening in the 20th century. 
We could approach this question in the same way that Canada has approached it. I simply take the opportunity to remind honourable senators, particularly those on the Government benches, of the approach to company law reform that was adopted in Canada. After the initial discussion, hearings and the preparation and publication of a full proposal in relation to this matter, legislation was drafted. That legislation was debated. It was then subjected to constructive criticism by various people. The whole operation took some four or five years, and finished up with a generally acceptable Bill, a generally acceptable approach to company law; one which did not receive the sort of mammoth input of criticism and complaint which the Bill which we are discussing has received, I believe, as a result of the failure adequately to consult with those who are involved in the industry, those who have comments to make- academics or whoever else they may be- who can assist in achieving a workable and appropriate piece of legislation. 
I think that the worst feature of the lot is the failure to see any sign of a new concept in the approach- a failure to conceptulise, to be able to see that some real work has been done in looking forward to what type of framework will be provided to enable the utmost efficiency to be obtained for the Austraiian people out of their company law and their securities industry law. I believe it must be remembered that those laws, particularly the company law, are necessary in order to have such a thing as a corporation. Without a legal framework a corporation does not exist. It is a creature of regulation, and the debate must be as to how you construct that framework. I believe it is certainly necessary that we should construct a framework which is one national framework, bearing in mind the nationwide nature of the operation of the securities industry and the nationwide nature of the operation of the majority- or at least a large numberof the public corporations in Australia. So we need a national companies Act, and with it we need a national securities industry law. The two should be approached together; the two should be interwoven, interlinked, and operate within one concept. 
It seems extraordinary that at a time of the increasing internationalisation of finance, when some of the real questions which are arising in the world at the moment relate to the question of how you can prevent abuses taking place internationally, we in this country should still be debating whether our approach should be a piecemeal approach or a joint State approach, or whether we should approach the matter as if we have grown up to be a nation. I believe it is clearly beyond doubt that we are in urgent need of adopting a national approach to this matter. We need then to consider in our national approach how this will interlink with an international approach to the organisation and operation not only of the multinational corporation but also of the whole of the international finance system. I believe that it is of vital importance to the future of Australia that Australia should develop as a financial centre for the Pacific region. I believe that it has all the facilities and all the opportunities to be able to serve that purpose. Australia's future development can be very much governed by whether we achieve that status or not. We certainly cannot achieve that status if we are haggling about whether we have a joint States approach or whether we have a national approach to this matter. As I have said, I believe that we should be thinking about an international approach. 
The securities industry is of a very fundamental importance to Australia's development. I will refer to some figures which are not quite up to date but which give some idea of the position. Between 1959 and 1967 the securities markets provided 47 per cent of the capital for real investment in non-mining companies in Australia. After that the figure becomes a little confused in some ways because of the distortions created by the mineral exploration boom. But I take that figure of 47 per cent. It is also interesting to note that during that same period the Australian banking system provided only one per cent of capital for this investment while retained profits, that is internally generated funds provided the other 52 per cent of the capital. 
I believe it is essential that we legislate effectively. I believe that the approach in this Bill is disappointing in its failure to provide any major concept and in its failure to provide any new concept. It is a rather poor imitation of the approaches which have been adopted in some other countries. It gives little indication that some of the major lessons which can be learned from the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and from the approaches in Canada, South Africa, the United Kingdom and other countries, have been learned. To the extent that the Securities and Exchange Commission in the United States has failed, I think most would agree that its failure has been basically the development of a bureaucratic aspect related to the registration statements procedure. 
The registration statement in the United States has become a monster which serves little purpose. As a matter of fact, recently I was interested to discuss this matter with Professor Friedman. He suggested that the registration statement has become entirely counterproductive; that it has reached the stage where no one would really pay any attention to the document which is prepared, which sets out almost every detail of anything to do with the company, its history and its operations, even to the size of the gauge of the wire on its boundary fence. Anyone starting to study the registration statements in the United States would be inclined to the view that under no circumstances whatsoever should anyone invest in that company. One would be inclined to the view that few people take very much notice of these registration statements, other than the people employed by the Securities and Exchange Commission whose full time task it is to try to work their way through the statements. They spend a great deal of their time in the handling and the storage of these costly statements. 
In every other way I believe that the Securities and Exchange Commission in the United States has served an extremely useful function and again we come to one of the lessons that apparently have not been learned. There is no companies registry role for the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. It does not take over the functions which are normally fulfilled by a company's registry, and nor should the proposed Australian Commission have this role which would involve it in a great deal of administrative work leading to a bureaucratic structure which is likely- I believe extremely likely- to inhibit its approach as a flexible, adaptable, fast acting body capable of monitoring the operations of the securities industry. 
Although some reference to this matter was made during the debate, I think it is appropriate to refer again to what the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange said in its report to the Senate of December 1971. The Committee said that from its extensive research and hearings it was satisfied that the real nature and extent of the problems involved has in the past been misunderstood. It said it was satisfied that the interests of this nation's economy, growth and welfare, as well as the interests of all those persons and corporations, both within and without Australia, who are involved in the securities industry require that the Commonwealth Government exercise the powers given to it at Federation to legislate with respect to the securities industry. I emphasise that point because it is relevant to some of the criticism that has been made of the Committee for the time that was taken to produce the report. 
Notwithstanding the publicity of all the evidence which had been heard by the Committee, it was the view of the Committee that people still did not understand the nature and the extent of the abuses which had been taking place within the securities industry and did not accept that there was an overwhelming case for major reform within the regulation of that industry. Accepting that that was the situation, the Committee set to to produce, by case study, what was believed to be an overwhelming and unanswerable case. 
I take the opportunity to mention that since that report was produced in July last year I have not seen a criticism of it which I believe has any validity. I think the net result is that the time taken to make the case as overwhelming as it could practically be was time well spent, because otherwise I believe that we may not have been able to be discussing, debating and considering with wide public support the creation of legislation such as this. I think that very often one can fail to remember that to hasten slowly sometimes has some advantages. 
A comment has been made about the length of time. I can remember that from 1956 to 1959 the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review made recommendations in relation to company law. In 1929 a royal commission made recommendations in relation to company law. But nothing has happened in relation to those recommendations. One of the things which I believe will come out of the type of study and the type of report made by the Senate Committee is that this time a case will be made out for the introduction of company law because sufficient time was taken to make a study of the securities industry and to produce the evidence. From that, I believe, one can make out a case not only for a national securities commission but also for a national companies Act. In its statement in December 1 97 1 the Committee went on to say: 
There are certain features of such a body which the Committee sees as desirable. This body must have adequate power, in the constitutional sense. It must deal with the abuses which have been widespread in the industry and to this end have the power to investigate nationally and follow-up effectively. 
I pause to comment that I doubt that it has either adequate power or is really structured to be capable of investigating nationally and following up effectively. The structure, because of the matters I have referred to already and because it is virtually taking over quite a part of the administrative role normally carried out by a companies registry, will be bound down in all probability with that type of function rather than with the type of function which we suggest it should have of investigating nationally and following up effectively. The committee's report continued: 
It must have the expertise and the liaison to know what is most desirable for the industry and the flexibility and adaptability to act quickly and effectively. 
I do not believe that a 44-day rule making power is flexible, adaptable, quick or effective. I do not believe that the type of body which is suggested by this legislation is likely to have the liaison to know what is desirable. The securities industry is an extremely complex industry. It is a rapidly changing industry and anyone who has not been involved directly in that industry would find considerable difficulty in becoming fully familiar with it. If we are to have people who are to act as the statutory regulators, the statutory surveillance body, the watchdog or whatever one wishes to call it, I believe they must be people who have had experience in the securities industry and who perhaps, as they do in the United States, come into that body for a period of time and then go back to the securities industry so that there is a constant interchange between the regulatory body and the industry which it is regulating. This represents a somewhat prestigious opportunity for young lawyers, accountants, economists and others to spend a period of time in contributing towards the work of the Securities Commission before going into the industry and then others, having spent some time in the industry, could come back to make their contribution to the work of the regulatory body. I believe that that is an essential procedure. A body which is structured on a Public Service departmental basis is not likely to encourage that inflow and outflow of people which is essential to the prospects of an efficient body. The Committee continued: 
On the other hand, it must be designed to keep the burden of red-tape to a minimum, be able to allow for business needs and problems and its structure must guarantee protection of the individual from arbitrary action. 
Once again, there has been, I suggest, a near total failure to pay any heed to that recommendation of the Committee. I should think that rather than red tape being kept to a minimum, it is near a maximum. Certainly there is no indication that it is proposed to allow business needs and problems to be overcome in the simplest way. I do not think that the structure of the Securities Commission guarantees protection of the individual from arbitrary action. There are many aspects of this Bill, not only the aspects which have been alleviated to some extent by the amendment which was made in the House of Representatives for a greater area of appeal to the Administrative Appeal Tribunal but also a great many other areas, where it is necessary to have regard to the provisions and to ask: 'Does it guarantee protection of the individual from arbitrary action?' One could quote many examples from this Bill where the answer would have to be: 'No, it does not'. The Committee's report went on to say: 
An effective, expert and flexible Commonwealth regulatory body is, in the Committee's view, necessary for the securities industry in Australia at this time, to assist it in being an efficient servant of our economy. 
I regret that I must assert that this Bill in its present form is not likely to fulfil those criteria and that desire expressed by the Senate Select Committee. One of the major matters about which we must think in this concept is whether our approach should be one of regulation and direction or whether one should approach the matter on the principle which has always applied in relation to company law since limited liability was first given, which is that the major quid pro quo for the opportunity to use corporate structure with limited liability is the imposition of the requirement of disclosure. I believe that if we were to adopt to a much greater extent the principle of disclosure in its various ways rather than a penalty, we would be likely to make more effective the regulation of the securities industry. If we are to approach the matter from the point of view of having investigation, public hearing and disclosure of what in fact is happening as one of the major functions of the Commission, people will be able to know what is taking place and to make their own effective judgment. I believe that there is inadequate attention to that side of the matter and too much attention to the penalty side. 
It really comes down to whether one wants a commission which is an investigator and is structured so that it is able to act quickly and is a relatively small but expert or elite type of body so that it has limited functions only and has the minimum administrative function; or whether it is to be a great bureaucratic structure with heavy administrative functions such as are envisaged by this Bill. I believe the adequate and effective watchdog role is likely to be successful only if we adopt the former of the 2 approaches that I have just mentioned. 
I would like to refer also, because it is relevant to the question of approach, to self-regulation. The Senate Committee in its report was quite strong in mentioning that self regulation played an important role and must continue to play an important role. I thought it may be of some interest to refer to the evidence given to a Congressional sub-committee in the United States of America on 5 October 1972 by  Mr Philip  Loomis, one of the commissioners with the Securities and Exchange Commission in the U.S.A. which had been involved in a very heavy consideration of the role of self regulation as applied in that country. Everyone knows what had happened to the New York Stock Exchange during the period around 1969, of the dreadful failures that took place there and the concern expressed throughout the country as to what new form of regulation would be necessary to overcome the likelihood of a repetition of that type of failure.  Mr Loomis  said: 
The fundamental concept of self regulation embodied in the Securities Exchange Act was well-suited to the securities markets as they existed in 1934 and 1938. In light of the rather extensive changes in the securities markets and trading patterns that have occurred in recent years, however, some observers have concluded that self regulation is no longer viable. Based upon our experience, however, the Commission cannot subscribe to this view. The system of self regulation has served, in many areas, as a source of affirmative protection to public investors and as an important vehicle to implement the regulatory objectives of the Congress. 
Nevertheless, the magnitude and rapidity of the changes in our securities markets and the resulting changes in the nature of the issues which confront all concerned with the regulation of those markets, including the self-regulatory agencies, have thrown a considerable strain upon the existing pattern of self regulation which has, in turn, revealed certain weaknesses. 
One can only say that that, too, was the situation in Australia. It is not to say that self regulation has no role; in fact, regulation will not work unless there is a heavy aspect of self regulation. It does not matter whether it is in relation to the securities industry or the traffic laws; the most important aspect of any regulation is the self regulation aspect. There must be a willingness to be regulated and to play a part in ensuring that the regulation is effective. 
Perhaps I could just mention as a matter of some concern as I refer to self regulation an example of self regulation at its worst. This was the example of the actions of the Sydney Stock Exchange when it was confronted with the cornering of the market as a result of large short selling of the shares of Antimony Nickel. What the Sydney Stock Exchange did on that occasion was to act to change the rules to protect its members at the expense of the people who were using its markets. It may be that short selling was bad and it may be that short selling should not have been permitted to take place, but it had taken place and the actions which had been taken by people using the market were lawful at the time. What happened in the New York Stock Exchange in about  1923  in relation to the shares of the Stutz Motor Co. and a broker named Ryan, was that the New York Stock Exchange altered its rules and finally bankrupted one of its members who had cornered the market and embarrassed the other members. It altered the rules, as I said, and finally bankrupted Ryan. What happened in Sydney in  1 97 1  was a very similar reaction. I believe that is a good example of the need to support self regulation with some form of government regulation. 
I should like to refer briefly to some of the problems I take as a variety of examples of some of the problems associated with the Billproblems which cannot be dealt with in any speech in the relatively limited period of a second reading debate and which could not be appropriately debated in the Senate Committee of the Whole other than with an extremely lengthy period of debate which would hold up unduly, I believe, the operation of this chamber but which could be satisfactorily considered by a committee of the Senate with the various comments people wish to make to the committee as to their objections or suggestions for making the Bill more effective. We must bear in mind that the Bill follows the excesses of a mining boom. 
In relation to the definition of an expert, for example, one of the problems we had in Australia was the problem about experts' mining reports. One would have thought that one of the most important areas for specific reference was the role of the geologist or mining engineer, but the Bill contains no specific reference to that. I wonder whether the commission, when established, will make some rules as to the definition of the qualification of a person who is a geologist or a mining engineer and whose reports can be received by the stock exchange. If one looks a little further, one finds that there is a probably unintentional but almost certain effective killing of the inter-company loan market. I wonder whether that was intended by the draftsman. 
Yes. 
I still adhere to what I said, yes. Perhaps we can discuss that before the committee. I do not want to take a lot of time, but I shall mention a few examples quickly. I have mentioned the effect the Bill will have on the inter-company loan market which has played what I believe is an important role in the capital markets of Australia. Perhaps then we could look at what I regard as one of the most important functions the commission should fulfil- the special study function. It is set out in clause  20 ( 1 ).  I find it quite limited in the way. in which it expresses the role and is not particularly encouraging to the Commission to make it believe that this special study function is one of its most important functions. I would hope that something to ensure that the commission regards it as one of its most important functions could be put into the Bill. 
Let me refer also to clause  21(3)  which provides: 
A person shall not be appointed as a member of the Commission unless he appears to the Governor-General to be qualified for appointment by virtue of his knowledge of, or experience in, industry, commerce, economics, law or public administration. 
What happened to the securities industry and accountancy? If we are to specify particular areas, one would expect that on a securities and exchange commission one would like to find a person with particular experience in and knowledge of accountancy and the securities industry being mentioned. They are not excluded because they could come, I suppose, within the definition of someone with a knowledge of commerce; but it does show the attitude of mind on the part of the draftsmen when they have not adverted to these areas from which I would have thought some members at least of the commission would have been drawn. 
I said it does not exclude them, but it is an indication of the attitude of the draftsmen when they are not specifically mentioned when a whole lot of areas are specifically mentioned. I would have thought that to have within the commission people well qualified and well experienced in the securities industry was one essential. I would have thought that the securities industry would have been specifically mentioned, not coming generally within the term industry', 'commerce', 'law' or whatever. It is a matter that could be improved by a little attention to that detail. 
Using again just a variety of comments on this Bill, I believe that it inadequately deals with questions related to multinational companies, something that relates to what I was saying earlier. Rather than just catching up with the argument whether we should have a number of State approaches, or a joint State approach, or what have you, we should be having a national approach and considering the international implications and the international approach. This Bill does little to lay any framework for facilitating an approach towards the operation in this country of the multinational or world corporation which, whether we like it or not, is a reality which will not go away as a result of any action which might be taken in the drafting of this Bill. Under this Government it might go away from Australia, I suppose, but it will not go away from the rest of the world. 
The Bill pays virtually no attention to the problems related to nominee companies and I find it hard to understand why not. The very real question in relation to the way in which the securities industry has been operating in past years is the question of the use and misuse of nominee companies. I wonder why greater attention has not been paid in that area. I believe it is a matter which has to be considered. 
One can look at the question of hearings and the lack of full appeal rights, and wonder why it is that there is so much doubt about clause 40 of the Bill and what rights people coming before the Commission in relation to hearings will have as to whether the hearing will be public or private. First, clause 40 provides a right to a person to request that the hearing take place in public. It may be very important to a person to have his story heard in public. The clause then gives the Commission a right, if it is satisfied it is desirable to do so, by reason of the confidential nature of any evidence or matter or for any other reason, to direct that the hearing take place in private. On the face of it, this means that there is no absolute right for any person to have a public hearing. One can imagine that it would not be an unreal criticism on the part of some people, who imagine that they may be concerned with the operation of this clause, to view it as the possible operation of a star chamber approach. I am not suggesting that the draftsman intended the clause to have that result but I believe it needs further attention and amendment. 
There are so many of these areas that can be referred to. I do not believe that all wisdom lies or is likely to lie in any draftsman or in any person giving instructions for the drafting of complex legislation such as this. It is a pity that a greater degree of philosophy and conceptualising did not take place in relation to this Bill. It is a pity too that we do not have a Bill which is going to take us forward in the way of facilitating the growth and development of the securities industry as an aspect of the Australian economy. Instead of that we have something which runs the very real risk of constituting an impediment to that growth by lifting and translating existing unsatisfactory legislation, lumping it together in a similar piecemeal way, and producing a set of Thou shall nots '. 
I hope that the committee to which this Bill will be referred will give some thought to that aspect of it in making any recommendations. This is complex legislation. It is in great need of improvement. The Senate already has established a very satisfactory procedure of using committees of the Senate as, in effect, Bill committees. I hope that is a practice which will develop considerably over a period of time and that there will not be this tremendous resistance on the part of Government, whatever its political complexion, to the reference of Bills, particularly complex Bills, almost automatically to an appropriate Senate Bill committee. I believe that the use of a Senate committee is the appropriate way to determine whether this Bill does best achieve the agreed objectives. That committee should be able to consider the views expressed in the report by the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange as well as those which may be based on varying degrees of self-interest which have been put forward by those who are concerned about the effect of the Bill upon them. I hope that committee also will have some relationship with people of academic standing in relation to this matter. I support the concept of the Bill. I support the motion that it be read a second time and I support the proposal that it be referred to a committee for serious consideration as to its appropriateness. 
Before concluding my remarks I would like to refer quite briefly to something that happened last night when a rather vicious personal attack was made on me. I think it was a pity. It blurred what was otherwise a useful debate. I believe it is necessary for me to make some brief comment without canvassing all the issues referred to by  Senator Georges  in his attack. I refer to this so that people will be able to draw their own conclusions.  Senator Georges  complained about what had happened with the Committee. I have a clear recollection that  Senator Georges  participated in one, and one only, preparation session which took place either at a weekend or at night for the purpose of preparing for the examination of witnesses and the further explanation of matters on behalf of the Committee. It was a regular event, so far as I was concerned, throughout the whole period of the inquiry. I recall only one occasion and that was in relation to the inquiry into Queensland Mines when I remember  Senator Georges  leaving West Block about 1 o'clock in the morning saying: 'You are all mad, staying up like this', or something like that. We finished about 4 o'clock in the morning. I also refer to the fact that during the hard work time of the Committee- the time involved in going through the Committee's report, making suggestions and giving consideration to its content and the way it was presented-  Senator Georges  was able to be present for only four out of 2 1 meetings. If he has - 
I referred specifically to the period from July 1973 until the end of March 1974 which was the major period of consideration of the contents of the Committee's report. It was the major period of consideration of the draft chapters of the report. During that period, from the beginning of July 1973 until the end of March 1974, there were 21 deliberative meetings. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)-  What is your point of order,  Senator Georges? 
May I read the standing order to which reference has been made by  Senator Georges? 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)-  Before you do, I ask  Senator Georges  to nominate the standing order under which he is taking his point of order. After listening to his argument with  Senator Missen,  I would like to know the standing order under which he is taking his point of order. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTSenator Georges, you will not reflect on the Chair, to begin with. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENTSecondly,  I see no reason why any senator cannot refer to published records or known records. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I suggest that you state the basis of your point of order before we carry on any argument. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTSenator Rae, do you wish to speak to the point of order? 
Yes. The standing order to which  Senator Georges  refers but which he cannot nominate is standing order 308, which reads: 
The evidence taken by any Select Committee of the Senate and documents presented to such Committee, which have not been reported to the Senate, shall not, unless authorised by the Senate or the Committee, be disclosed or published by any member of such Committee, or by any other person. 
That standing order refers to the evidence taken by a committee and the documents presented to such committee. The matters to which I refer, unlike  Senator Georges  's speech last night, have been related solely to attendance of a member at Senate committee meetings during a specific period. 
I can well recall  Senator Georges  's continuous absence throughout that period. I do not need a document. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENTOrder!  Senator Georges  raised a point of order which  Senator Rae  told me was based on standing order 308.  Senator Rae  started to explain his situation. Then I understood that  Senator Georges  wanted the withdrawal of some remarks. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENTOrder!  Senator Georges,  you will inform the Chair of the remarks allegedly made by  Senator Rae  to which you take exception. You will not debate the subject. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  The Chair cannot rule as being offensive remarks that a senator well remembers either the presence at meetings or the absence from meetings of another senator. I call  Senator Rae. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I call  Senator Keeffe  on a point of order. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I thought  Senator Georges  took the fire out of the point of order when he asked for a withdrawal, which I would not uphold. If he wants a continuation of the point of order which he raised, I will hear other senators on it. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTSenator Keeffe was the next to rise. If he wants to speak to the point of order, I will hear him. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTOrder! I have ruled that the remarks made by  Senator Rae  were not offensive. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I must admit that I was studying the standing order and did not hear any offensive remark. If  Senator Keeffe  made one, I ask him to withdraw, out of common courtesy to the Chair. 
Rae's remarks to date which justifies in any way the point of order. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I have given this matter consideration. My ruling is that  Senator Georges  can be heard later in explanation if he believes that he has been misrepresented by  Senator Rae. Senator Rae  may now continue his remarks. I call  Senator Rae. 
Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  The point I was making was that the criticism which was made yesterday and to which I am replying was a criticism in relation to a period of time during which the draft chapters of the report were being prepared. I simply wanted to point out to honourable senators that  Senator Georges  's misunderstanding, which led to his misstatements yesterday, was obviously based upon the fact that he had no knowledge because he was not present during that period. The only meetings that he attended during that period were some meetings at which the Committee was discussing matters other than the content of the draft chapters of the report. He did not attend the actual work meetings during that period. I believe that speaks for itself as to the way in which the remarks that  Senator Georges  made yesterday should be regarded. In making the comment about  Senator Georges  's attendance at Committee hearings I wish to pay particular tribute to the work done and the assistance given to that Committee by both  Senator Wriedt  and  Senator Wheeldon  as well as by the other Liberal, Country Party and Democratic Labor Party members of the Committee. I also in fairness wish to add something, if I may be heard without interruption. I particularly made that remark in view of the fact that  Senator Georges  chose to make the remarks that he did last night and this is my opportunity to reply to them. 
I hope that  Senator Georges  will keep quiet because funnily enough the remark that I wanted to make now was to acknowledge that during the early period of the Committee's hearings  Senator Georges  was one of the best attenders of the members of that Committee. I believe that that was something that should have been acknowledged. I well recall in December 1971 writing to  Senator Georges  thanking him for the assistance that he had given at that stage. It was only at a later stage when the less spectacular work of the Committee was being done, the hard work of the private meetings getting down to the preparation and consideration of the report, that  Senator 
Georges 's other commitments seemed to prevent him from being able to take any close involvement with the Committee's work. Hence some of the statements which he made last night would be based on the fact that he would be unaware of what was happening. I also want to refer to one or two other of the matters to which he referred. I specifically refer to page 895 of Hansard where he said: 
Why was the staff of the Committee asked to go right through the transcript before it was reprinted in the report and the word  'Chairman'  crossed out and replaced with the words  'Senator Rae  ' as is shown in the report? 
He went on to make some other remarks in relation to this which are set out in the Hansard but it was hard to follow what he meant because his remarks are not borne out by the documents which are available. If he was referring only to the sections of the transcript which were reproduced in Volume 1 Part 1 of the reportthat is the case study sections where sections of the transcript were reproduced from committee discussion on case study- to use as an example chapter 4 page 3 1 , it there refers to the  Chairman, Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, by name and in chapter 10 page 1 16 the reference is just to the 'Chairman'; and that was during a period of time when I was the  Chairman. Senator Georges  appeared to be stating that there was an instruction given for the whole of the transcript to be changed because he said that the staff was told to go right through the transcript before it was reprinted. I have with me the reprint which is Volume 2 of Part 2. As an example I notice that there is no alteration in it anywhere from the word  'Chairman'  to the name of the person who occupied the chair. What did happen was that an instruction was given that where sections of the transcript were being lifted out of the full transcript and reproduced as a quote in the report itself - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
-I thank the Senate for the opportunity given to me to explain my position and I assure you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  that I will not take 30 minutes unless time is taken up with points of order which I do not expect will occur. The instruction that was given was simply one to make clear that at any time when a person who had been  Chairman  or Acting  Chairman-  there were at various stages a variety of people as  Chairman  or Acting Chairmanthe name of the person should be used so that it was understood who was in the chair rather than using  'Chairman'  or 'Acting  Chairman'.  There are a number of examples of that occurring if one likes to look through the parts which are quoted in the report. It did not happen every time because apparently some were overlooked. They were overlooked in relation to quotes at times when I was the  Chairman  as well as at times when perhaps somebody else was; I just do not know. I found just that one example where the word  'Chairman'  had not been changed in chapter 10 to which I referred, at a time when I was  Chairman. 
I go on to refer to what  Senator Georges  said about the work of  Dr Rose.  The honourable senator said that the work of  Dr Rose  had not been adequately recognised. I would like to quote from the introduction, which is under my name, in that section of the report headed Acknowledgements'. It says: 
As already mentioned, the Committee developed the practice of involving highly qualified and experienced advisers to assist in various aspects of its inquiry and report. We are most grateful to each such adviser for his valuable assistance but wish to make particular reference to the contribution made to our work by  Dr John  Rose.  His  combination of academic brilliance, practical experience and untiring hard work has been invaluable. 
I do not know to what extent one could pay a higher tribute to anyone. I certainly have on numerous occasions referred to the fact that I believe that  Dr Rose  's work for our Committee was absolutely invaluable and that the Senate is in his debt. It was also suggested by  Senator Georges  that the former Attorney-General, being tired of waiting for our report to be published, used the services of  Dr Rose  and Professor Harding, the 2 advisers to the Committee. In fact that did not happen until after the report was prepared and printed in April 1 974 and then because of the election it was not able to be presented until July 1974. It was after that period that  Dr Rose's  services were availed of by the former Attorney-General. So any other impression given by  Senator Georges  that because the former Attorney-General was sick of waiting for our Committee's report he got the advisers to assist him does not hold water. 
I think it is also relevant briefly to compare the opinion of  Senator Georges  with the opinion of the other Government supporters who were members of the Committee. I just briefly quote from yesterday's Hansard at page 909 where  Senator Wriedt  expressed this view: 
I believe that the Committee tried to grapple with an extremely complex industry and to come up with findings and recommendations which would be a guide to the Government of the day when framing legislation of this nature. I wish to make it quite clear that in my view all members of the Securities and Exchange Committee contributed to the best of their ability to ensure that we were coming up with information that would be advantageous to the industry and to the Government in formulating this legislation. 
At page 913 of Hansard  Senator Wheeldon  said: 
Although I am a member of the Committee I thinkI may be pardoned for saying that it has been a very good Committee. Criticisms have been made by various people that the Committee has taken unduly long in bringing down its report, the bulk of which is now before the Senate, but I do not believe that the criticisms can be fairly justified as the Committee determined at a very early stage in its deliberations that it would not be like some committees and merely perform a function of bringing down a page or two of recommendations put in some very stark form. The Committee decided that there should be a detailed analysis of the operations of the securities market throughout Australia and that before any recommendations were as to how the law relating to the securities market should be changed adequate reasons should be given for taking any such action. For that reason the Committee engaged in quite detailed case studies of some of the more significant events which occurred in the exchange of securities within this country over the past years, and particularly during the mining boom which occurred in the early 1970s. 
Those were the views expressed by two other members of the Committee, and I hope that they are of some relevance to those people considering the matters raised by  Senator Georges. 
I would summarise therefore by saying that I do not intend to canvass the matters raised, although I thought that some of them not only were inaccurate but also that it was improper to raise them.  Senator Georges  has played very little part, other than in attending the public hearings, since the Committee got to the stage of doing what I have described as the harder work of getting down to reading the evidence, working upon the draft reports and making recommendations as to how they should be published. That was the stage at which  Senator Georges  appeared to find other matters of greater concern to him. He did give explanations, into which 1 will not go, as to why it was that during that period he was not able to devote his attention to the Committee's work. That does explain why he should be in the position of not understanding adequately what were the reasons, which do appear to have been understood by other members of the Committee including his own Government Party colleagues. I think it is a pity that he should have found it necessary to intrude his personal problems into this debate. In doing so he has made a number of assertions which were incorrect and which needed some correction. I have corrected some of the more outstanding ones. I thank the Senate for giving me the opportunity of speaking for longer than my limited time would have allowed me so that I could make that explanation. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Is it a fact that the 1975 annual conference of the Federal Council for the Advancement of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders was held in Canberra over 4 days at Easter? I remind the Minister  thatlast  week I inquired whether the failure  of the  Department of Aboriginal Affairs to provide the promised $4,000 to assist in holding that conference was deliberate or negligent. Is it also a fact that the Minister did not accept the invitation to attend this major Aboriginal conference on any of the 4 days? Is the Minister aware that a motion was passed unanimously expressing the conference's disgust and condemnation of his failure  to  attend? Was the Minister deliberately snubbing the conference? Has the Minister yet explained his absence and, if  so,  what was his explanation? 
-The Bill provides for certain amendments to the Australian War Memorial Act. As is well known, the Australian War Memorial has existed for many years, in fact since shortly after the First World War, and has developed for Australia a widely respected collection as a memorial to those who lost their lives during the wars and, as they are now described, in warlike activities in which Australia has been involved. Australians other than servicemen have been involved in various wars and warlike activities during Australia's history as a nation, but until this amendment was proposed they had not been brought within the terms of the Act as being subjects of the operation of the Australian War Memorial. We find, therefore, the following definition in clause 4(1): 
The Australia War Memorial established by the Australian War Memorial Act 192S is continued in existence and shall be a national memorial of Australians who have died- 
on or as a result of active service; or 
b) as a result of any war or warlike operations in which Australians have been on active service, 
This will cover others who served, such as merchant seamen, civilians with other forces, the Red Cross, the Australian Comforts Fund, the Young Men's Christian Association, war correspondents and photographers, and a host of other persons who all played their part- a valuable part- in assisting Australia in time of war. Quite obviously they should be brought within the Bill, and the Opposition would warmly support that step being taken. 
Another amendment which is proposed is related to the investment of available funds of the War Memorial Fund, and a brief explanation in relation to that is that the War Memorial Board has over the years published books and produced souvenirs of various sorts and sold these to the Australian public. The War Memorial in Canberra is a very popular place, more than 7 1 1 000 people having visited it during the year ended 30  June  1974. A large number of those people made purchases from the Board and the net result is that a special fund has accumulated now a total sum for investment of approximately $ 1 70,000. This enables the Board to make purchases of various sorts without calling on Consolidated Revenue to provide funds for those purchases. For instance, last year the income from sales of books and souvenirs was almost $69,000, leaving a net surplus of $54,000. The Bill provides for greater scope for the investment of those accumulated funds. Clause 6 states: 
1 ) Moneys in the Fund not immediately required for the purposes referred to in section 18 may be invested- 
on fixed deposits with an approved bank; 
In securities of Australia; or 
In such other manner as the Treasurer approves. 
This will give a much wider discretion as to the investment of the funds, will enable a greater interest rate to be obtained and is obviously in the best interests of the operation of the Australian War Memorial Fund. In that respect also the Opposition will certainly support the amendment. 
Another aspect of the amendment is related to the remuneration and allowances for members and deputies of members of the Board and simply brings them into line with the normal procedure that they shall be such amounts as are determined by the Remuneration Tribunal. That practice is adopted in like instances and again the Opposition would support that action. It has been commented in the second reading speech that the income of the Fund enables the War Memorial to be conducted without calling on the Government for financial assistance. Because that may be misleading, I should indicate that there is a very large annual parliamentary appropriation of approximately $750,000 for the past year which is applied for the payment of salaries of the staff of the War Memorial, for administrative expenses and plant and equipment. I do not have any comment about that other than simply to clear up the situation in case some misunderstanding was created. The position is that the running expenses of the War Memorial amount to approximately $750,000 and are paid for out of Consolidated Revenue, but the purchases are, and have been for some time, made out of the funds raised by the sale of books and other material. 
I would like to make only one further comment. I would like to take the opportunity to remind people that the War Memorial depends to quite a significant extent upon the alertness of people in the community and their consciousness of the fact that films, photographs and writtenmaterial as well as other forms of souvenirs from the various wars in which Australia has been involved are all of very considerable historical value. If people, on going through their possessions, find something which relates to some aspect of wars in which Australians have been involved, particularly photographs, they should consider making those available to the Australian War Memorial rather than perhaps destroying them or leaving them unwanted and put away somewhere. I simply remind people of the important role which the average Australian can play because the War Memorial can be built up by a consciousness in the community that this sort of action would be to the benefit of the War Memorial and to the memory of those servicemen and women and other people associated with the Services who lost their lives during the various actions in which Australia has been involved. The Opposition warmly supports the Bill. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Prime Minister make a statement recently in Tasmania relating to the takeover by the Commonwealth of the Tasmania State Railways. 
Is it a fact that  Senator Cavanagh,  the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, stated to Senate Estimates Committee G on 22 October 1974 . The policy of the Government is to delete subsidies (to railways). 'I think there may be further directions to the Commonwealth Railways to meet their own budget in the future '. 
Will that policy be applied to the Tasmanian State Railways if it is taken over by the Commonwealth. 
If the answer to (3) is in the affirmative, has any estimate been made of the extent to which railway freight rates in Tasmania will be increased to convert a $ 10.5m operating loss into a profit; if so, what is the estimate. 
Will any existing services be closed in the event of a Commonwealth takeover. 
Without asking a question, I make a personal request to  Senator Bishop  to be added to the list of complainants referred to by  Senator Marriott.  I direct a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs which relates to Vietnamese refugees or other persons desiring to come to Australia from South Vietnam. I refer in particular to 2 categories. The first comprises close relations of Australian citizens who were formerly Vietnamese but are now naturalised Australian citizens. A number of applications by people in this category have been made to the Minister's Department. The other category to which I specifically refer includes those South Vietnamese citizens who trained in Australiaparticularly a large number of them who trained at Australian universities- who have now indicated that they would wish to leave the war area of Vietnam and return to Australia. I ask: Will the Minister, in the discussions which are taking place, press for the highest priority to be given to people who do fall within those categories? Will the Minister also give an undertaking to the Senate that he will take some steps to expedite some resolution of the Australian Government's policy in this area? I would say that it does seem to be dragging somewhat- if a comment is acceptable at the end of the question. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How many local groups have been established to implement the Australian Assistance Plan up until February 1975. 
Where have they been established. 
What allocation of funds has been made to what bodies and for which purposes. 
How many foundation meetings and interim committees had financial members of the Australian Labor Party on them. 
How many branches of the Australian Labor Party have resolved to make arrangements for Australian Labor Party members to accept positions on these committees. 
What proposals have each of the local committees under the Australian Assistance Plan put to the Australian Government or to other bodies. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the Prime Minister's second reading speech on the National Gallery Bill 1975, in which the Prime Minister said 'This provision (of two statutory offices) has been introduced to avoid the problems which have arisen so often elsewhere, where unlikely and unreasonable combinations of different expertise and experience have been demanded of the one person, usually with unfortunate results ', will he itemize the ' unfortunate results '. 
What are the names of all the public servants or office holders who have evidenced 'unlikely and unreasonable combinations' with 'unfortunate results' during the time of his Prime Ministership. 
In what particular positions within what departments or agencies do these persons now serve the Government and in what positions and for what periods within departments or agencies did they serve at the time of 'the problems'. 
Besides his view of the need for the provision of two statutory offices, what other steps have been and are being taken to overcome 'the problems' and by whom are these steps being taken and in what government departments or agencies. 
Is the Minister for Agriculture aware that Tasfruit Pty Ltd, which is the sole fruit export licensee in Tasmania, has refused to ship apples of the sturmer variety which have been passed as. fit and eligible for export by inspectors of his own Department? Is the Minister also aware that the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation has been continuing to handle such fruit and, notwithstanding that, Tasfruit Pty Ltd is refusing to export the fruit? Can the Minister indicate why Tasmanian sturmer growers are precluded by the sole export licensee from exporting their crop? 
I present the following petition from 2459 citizens of Tasmania: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
1 ) Nationalise the insurance industry. 
Create hundreds of Public Service jobs and cause serious unemployment in the private insurance industry throughout Australia. 
Add to the taxpayers burden. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 1 145 citizens of Tasmania: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
1 ) Cost the loss of jobs and future prospects of employees and agents of the private insurance industry throughout Australia. 
Compete unfairly with private insurers. 
Require large taxation subsidies for a lengthy period. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Did the Leader of the Government in the Senate or any other Minister of the Government or the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions take any steps during the recent shipping strike to exempt Tasmanian shipping from the strike and so fulfil the promises made by both Australian Labor Party members and the  President  of the ACTU prior to the 1972 election? 
Perhaps one means of overcoming the problem would be if the Minister for Agriculture were prepared to give an undertaking to obtain and supply the information as soon as possible next week. 
The next matter to which I refer is claims by the State of Tasmania. The questions which that raises in our minds are whether it still continues to be a fact that there have been no claims, as was stated in April to be the situation when this matter was debated in the other House, why it should be that no claims have been made and the doubt that that raises, because there has been a whole lot of expenditure by the State Government. Does it mean that expenditure which has already been undertaken does not come within the agreement? That is the real problem about which the Opposition is concerned. 
-I thank the Minister for Agriculture. The next matter I wish to raise relates to the construction of a second bridge and the details in relation to that. I have asked what is the nature and extent of the Com.monwealth's financial commitment and proposed assistance in relation to that. Have any details been agreed upon? If so, what are they? If not, what is proposed? Is there to be a total grant of finance to the full cost of the construction of a second permanent crossing? Alternatively is it to be part grant and part loan funds or is it to be some more limited amount? What is the situation there? 

 -Finally, Mr Chairman, there is the matter contained in the sixth question I asked in relation to the facilities on the eastern shore, to which the Minister replied in part. I would ask for some further consideration of that question. I asked: what plans are there for the provision of any particular emergency and other facilities on the eastern shore? Will the Commonwealth be contributing anything and, if so, what amounts, towards any such projects? In the third part of the question I asked: Has any general survey been undertaken by all government departments to see whether there is any way in which they can assist the people who have been adversely affected as a result of the collapse of the bridge? I asked about a general survey. I know that some departments have taken steps, but I was seeking from the Minister an indication that some general survey might be undertaken, if that has not been done, and details of any plans there might be for further emergency or other facilities and to what extent the Commonwealth would be contributing. 
I thank the Minister for Agriculture,  Senator Wriedt,  for the information that he has been able to supply to honourable senators in relation to the considerable number of questions which have been asked during the debate. I believe that of the 7 questions, many of which were divided into several parts, I have asked I have received answers to only about three of them. I seek from the Minister his reconsideration of certain of the questions, which I am happy to reiterate, and the provision of answers to them. Alternatively, if the Minister feels that the required information is not available to him at the moment, then in view of the fact that an Interim Commission is operating, in view of the fact that this Bill seeks to do no more than put into statutory form the Interim Commission and that therefore a delay until next week in the passage of this legislation will not in any way delay proceeding with the work on the restoration of the bridge or anything else but will only delay the legal form in which the work is being undertaken, and in view of the fact that a report is to be given next Monday to which reference has been made by the Minister and  Senator Everett,  it would seem to me to be highly desirable that this debate should be adjourned until next Tuesday so that full and considered answers can be provided to the questions I have asked. I remind the Minister that at this stage we know very little about a number of the matters that I have raised. 
-Such a lack of co-operation is not going to get the matter finished any earlier. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is it a fact that in March of this year the Government increased the charge to airlines for garbage disposal and incineration at Melbourne airport from 8.6c to 62.5c per cubic foot? Does this constitute an increase of 629 per cent? Is it 6 times the commercial rate for the disposal of garbage in similar circumstances? 
Is this not just an example of a further tax being imposed on airlines and therefore on the air travelling public? 
-The Tasman Bridge Restoration Bill 1975 arises from the collapse of part of the Tasman Bridge in Hobart on 5 January this year. It is, I believe, a notorious fact that it was caused by a ship owned by the 
Commonwealth shipping line, the Australian National Line, being negligently handled- as found by a court of marine inquiry- and colliding with the eastern pylons of the bridge. In the disaster which followed the ship was lost, 3 spans of the bridge collapsed and 12 lives were lost. As there certainly will be further legal proceedings I make nc further comment at this stage than to say that prima facie there is a clear liability on the part of a Commonwealth agency in respect of the damage which was caused. The course of action which followed has been well set out in the speeches reported in the House of Representatives Hansard of 16 April at pages 1671 to 1685. I do not take the time of the chamber to detail all of those steps which followed the disaster on 5 January. However, there was a burst of early activity by the Commonwealth Government. Inquiries were instituted; offers of assistance were made; defence personnel were organised to assist in relation to the underwater search and other matters. 
Although one could make some comment about other steps which might or might not have been taken, by and large I pay credit to the Commonwealth Government for recognising its clear responsibility and acting with expedition in relation to the matter. It is after that early period that a fog appears to descend. Statements have become vague; activity has proceeded at a rather slow pace and there appears to be a degree of confusion so far as the State Government is concerned. Meanwhile the people of Hobart are suffering. My colleagues  Senator Bessell  and  Senator Townley  will be speaking in relation to this matter and will refer in more detail to that aspect. Let me say that the result has been a city physically and socially divided, but united in a desire to have its problems overcome. It is now more than 5 months since that disaster took place and we have a Bill which is to give statutory effect to an agreement entered into between the Commonwealth Government and the State Government. It simply creates a Commission to have the power and the function to restore the Tasman Bridge as soon as possible. This Bill does no more than put in statutory form that agreement. As there is an Interim Commission at present operating the action which we' are taking at the moment of passing this legislation is what one might almost say perfunctory only. 
The Interim Tasman Bridge Commission has been in existence for some time. This Bill will formalise its existence. Why there has to be a Commission and why the Commonwealth should need to be involved are questions which can be answered only in the minds, perhaps, of a centralist government which believes that all wisdom resides with it and its officers, but again, while mentioning the point that this is another case of the Commonwealth's insisting on getting into State affairs, we do not propose to take any objection by way of refusing to pass the Bill or by way of attempting to amend it. We simply make the comment in passing. In all the circumstances there was a clear responsibility on the part of the Commonwealth, or through its agency or through its agency's insurers, to pay. It may be that this offer by the Commonwealth to pay is no more than its duty anyway, but let us not quibble about that. The offer has been made and I am glad it has been made. 
The Opposition will support the Bill and will take the opportunity associated with its passage through this chamber to endeavour to elicit a little further information for the benefit of all of those people affected by the disaster. I believe it is true to say that people want some tangible evidence that there is a firm plan for the restoration of the bridge and for relief of the other problems which arise from the disaster. Accordingly I raise a series of questions which we seek to have answered by the Minister. Firstly, there is the question relating to the building of a Bailey bridge to provide a temporary crossing at Dowsing Point. Immediately after the collapse the suggestion was made in letters to the editors of newspapers and in statements by various people that this was one way in which the problems created by the collapse of the bridge could be alleviated to some extent. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  responded. He arranged for Army engineers to visit Hobart and to inspect possible sites, and he announced that a temporary bridge would be built. He has indicated that it was the State Government's wish that the erection should be under the control of the State Public Works Department, and that that had been agreed to by the Commonwealth. Now, 5 months later, the position is as follows: The approaches have been constructed; some sections of the Bailey bridge have been shipped to Hobart; and the Premier of Tasmania,  Mr Nielson,  has announced within the past 2 days that it will be September at the earliest before the first lane of that Bailey bridge is open for use. In other words, it will be 9 months after the emergency arose before at least one lane will be open. 
The other fact that appears clear is that work at the moment is at a standstill.  Mr Barnard  has made it clear that this is not his or the Army's fault. Presumably one can only conclude that it is the fault of the State Government, the State Public Works Department or the Interim Commission. I believe that people are entitled to know the position. Nine months at least is a long time to erect a Bailey bridge. The explanation given, just yesterday and the day before, is that the pile driving barge to be used in the construction at the moment is being used in connection with assessment work on the Tasman Bridge and will not be available for at least a further month. I have several questions to ask. In the light of this disaster and the urgency of building this already delayed Bailey bridge, is that barge the only one available? Has any request been made to obtain one elsewhere? Has the Commonwealth been asked to provide one either from defence services or from elsewhere? Does it mean that a Bailey bridge can be constructed only if there happens to be a suitable barge available at the site? I cannot and I do not believe that this is the best that can be done, and I ask the Minister to obtain the answers to those questions. 
The second major area in which we seek information as to what is happening is the aspect of the salvage of the ship 'Lake Illawarra'. Firstly, the then Premier of Tasmania,  Mr Reece,  claimed that the salvage of that ship was essential for the restoration of the bridge to proceed, that it was a prerequisite to that restoration proceeding. We now find that new Premier of Tasmania,  Mr Neilson,  has totally reversed that stand and says that the ship will not be salvaged. I ask: What is actually happening? Who will take the decision, and when will the people know of that decision? There is in today's Hobart 'Mercury' a report that some announcement about this matter will be made next Monday. That may provide the answers, I do not know. The Interim Tasman Bridge Commission and the Tasman Bridge Restoration Commission which will be established by the Bill that is before us are bound to report to both the Premier of Tasmania and the Prime Minister of Australia. Presumably it will be possible for the Minister to ascertain what report those commissions propose to make and to obtain the information which we are seeking at this stage. 
The third question which I ask is: What is the extent of the Commonwealth's commitment to provide financial assistance to the State of Tasmania in relation to this disaster and its consequences? I believe that the Minister in his second reading speech leaves the matter in some degree of confusion. In that speech the Minister said: 
The ship belonged to the Australian National Line. The Australian Government has undertaken to meet the costs to the Tasmanian Government of the full amount of expenditure incurred by it and its authorities as a result of the disaster. 
That is the point which I made earlier. It would appear to me to be quite clear after the finding of the court of marine inquiry that there is every possibility at least that there would be a clear liability on the part of the Commonwealth or its agency, the Australian National Line or its insurers, to pay. I will repeat what the Minister said: 
The Australian Government has undertaken to meet the costs to the Tasmanian Government of the full amount of expenditure incurred by it and its authorities as a result of the disaster. 
That could mean all sorts of things. It could be very broad as to what costs will be met. Later in his speech the Minister said: 
The collapse of the bridge has created a wide range of problems 
I pause to emphasise those words 'a wide range of problems'-  within Hobart and has imposed many hardships on a substantial proportion of its residents. The agreement honourable senators are asked to approve will make a big contribution to solving one aspect of the problems, namely, the restoration of the Tasman Bridge to a satisfactory trafficable condition. 
I ask the Minister: What does that mean? Firstly, what is meant by his earlier statement which I quoted, that the Australian Government has undertaken to meet the costs to the Tasmanian Government of the full amount of expenditure incurred by it and its authorities as a result of the disaster? How broadly does that go? Secondly, why does this agreement appear to be limited to covering only one aspect of the problems? It is a very narrow covering of that one aspect of the problems because the words in the speech appear to be quite carefully used. There is reference to the restoration of the Tasman Bridge to a satisfactory trafficable condition. That does not necessarily mean the full and final restoration of the bridge. One can imagine that temporary repairs or short term repairs, such as have been suggested by a Japanese company, which could be done in a brief period- apparently in less than a year- at a cost of less than $ 1 m would provide a bridge restored to a satisfactory trafficable condition, but it certainly would not be a permanent repair. Perhaps I am misunderstanding the Minister's speech- I think that others may be misunderstanding it, too- and therefore I simply seek from the Minister some clarification of what is meant by the words used in his speech. 
The next question I ask is whether the Minister can confirm that the Commonwealth .is committed to the full restoration of the bridge or whether there is any qualification in relation to that. I believe that people are entitled to know the full nature and extent of the commitment which has been made by the Commonwealth, and I ask the Minister to spell it out clearly and unequivocally. 
Whatever is decided as being necessary for the full and final restoration of the bridge as opposed to any question of temporary repair. I do not know what is proposed at the moment and I am seeking information. I am endeavouring not to make a controversial speech but rather a speech in which I seek information on behalf of the people who are concerned. Full restoration is restoration such as is decided upon as the final work to be carried out in relation to the bridge. 

 - Senator Wright says permanent structural soundness. I am happy to use those words to supplement the words that I used earlier. The next matter that I raise is the question of a second permanent crossing of the Derwent River. I suggest that as yet no member of the public knows precisely what is happening in relation to that. Investigation and planning have been proceeding for some 2 years, as I understand the situation, and alternative potential sites have been investigated. On 24 January last, some 3 weeks after the disaster occurred, the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  said: 
There are no barriers as far as finance is concerned. 
I understand that at the time he was referring to the construction of a second permanent crossing, a second permanent bridge over the Derwent River. What does that statement by the Treasurer mean? What is the nature and extent of the Commonwealth's financial assistance and commitment? For instance, is it a commitment to a total grant of finance to the full amount that will be expended on the the construction of a second bridge over the Derwent River? That is one possibility. A second possibility is that it is a commitment to provide funds- perhaps part by loan and part by grant- towards the construction of a second bridge over the Derwent River. Does it mean that? Does it mean some more limited amount than either of those that I have suggested? Have any terms been discussed? Have any terms been agreed upon? Can people know what is the nature and extent of the Commonwealth Government's commitment to the construction of a second permanent crossing over the Derwent River in the Hobart region? 
The fifth question I ask is: Have any claims yet been made by the Tasmanian Government for reimbursement under this agreement or any other agreement with the Commonwealth? I understand that when the matter was debated in the House of Representatives about one month ago it was stated that no such claims had been made. I am curious to know why that should have come about. Has it been that it is part of the understanding that no claims will be made before a particular time? Is it that the Tasmanian Government does not believe that it has as yet expended any moneys which would come within the agreement? We know that the Tasmanian Government has incurred liabilities to this stage. I regard this as curious and a matter for explanation. If no claims have been made, does this in some way give some reflection of the nature of the agreement and the nature and extent of the reimbursement which the Tasmanian Government can expect? There has been quite a number of comments about the somewhat parlous state of the finances of the State of Tasmania, and I find it difficult to believe that if the Tasmanian Government were entitled to reimbursement of moneys expended to date it would not have made a claim. I ask the Minister to clarify that aspect. 
The sixth matter that I raise is related to the question of the plans for the provision of any emergency and other facilities on the eastern shore of the Derwent River arising from the problems which have been experienced because of the fact that the Tasman Bridge crossing is no longer available, that there is no satisfactory alternative crossing by land unless one engages in the very long drive through Bridgewater, and that ferry services are not entirely suitable, particularly for some aspects of emergency treatment. What is planned, so far as the Commonwealth is concerned, in the way of a contribution to any emergency health service which may be proposed and developed and to emergency services of any other nature, such as child care facilities on the eastern shore where now, because of the problem of transport, people are away from home longer and their needs in relation to child care may be greater? A vast number of problems of this nature have arisen all of which have been given quite a deal of publicity. I ask the Minister: Will the Commonwealth be contributing anything- if so, what amount- towards all the projects that come within that category? 
I further ask the Minister: Has any general survey been conducted amongst all the Commonwealth departments to ascertain the need and the opportunity for those departments to provide facilities on the eastern shore? lt has occurred to me that an examination could well be conducted by each department of whether the convenience of the people would be better served by the opening of a composite branch office representing a number of departments. One calls to mind that such departments and sections of departments as the Commonwealth Employment Service, the Department of Social Welfare and the Department of Education- there are various others- may very well be able to open and staff even part-time an office somewhere on the eastern shore to facilitate contact between the Commonwealth Government and people living on the eastern side of the Derwent River. If no such general survey has been undertaken will the Minister take steps to have one undertaken? 
The seventh question that I raise concerns the subject of whether there are any plans in mind to provide compensation to people, companies and other organisations who have suffered direct and ascertainable losses as a result of the bridge disaster. The annual community loss, other than the bridge restoration costs and other such costs, has been assessed in an exercise conducted for the purpose at some $26m. I do not have full details of the accuracy of that assessment, but if one just takes it at first glance it is very clear that the community loss has been severe. My colleague  Senator Bessell  will be making some further comments about that aspect. 1 simply say that the loss has been calculated at that figure. Even if that figure is not accurate the cost to the community has been very great. Will the Government establish and fund or assist in the establishment and funding of a form of compensation scheme through a tribunal or other appropriate body? 
I remind the Minister that we have just been dealing with a Bill relating to the damage suffered by the community in the Darwin area as a result of cyclone Tracy. Compensation is to be paid to those people in respect of the immediate damage. There were those in Hobart who were involved in immediate damage as a result of the collapse of the Tasman Bridge. Community loss is continuing to occur in the area. I repeat that I believe that the people of Tasmania, particularly the people in the immediate area, are entitled to receive answers to those questions. 
I have quite deliberately refrained from engaging in wholesale criticism of either of the governments involved. A large amount of criticism has been made. I believe that it is unnecessary and unproductive to repeat that criticism at this stage in this chamber. The fact that all the questions I have asked need full answers is perhaps some commentary on the importance of the matter. The Opposition will support the Bill but will pursue the obtaining of answers to those questions in order to enable Tasmanians to know what they may expect to happen. 
-I wish to pursue this a little further, if I may. Part of the question was: What plans are there for the provision of services? If the Minister is not in a position to give the Opposition any further particularity at this stage, then the Opposition would be prepared to accept his undertaking to obtain the information. But it is part of the concern expressed by a lot of people that there is a degree of uncertainty about what is going on. The Opposition simply wishes to take the opportunity to get further and better particulars, if" that is possible. On the undertakings that have been given and with the co-operation of the Minister, I am sure we can all get to the sort of situation that we want to achieve. 
I take this opportunity to thank the Minister for his co-operation in trying to achieve a situation where the people of Tasmania are better informed about what the future holds for them. The Opposition, of course, does support the Bill. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Defence: Is it a fact that the Minister for Defence and spokesman for his Department recently announced consideration of the construction or purchase of a logistic supply ship as if this were some new defence procurement initiative? What is the difference between the ship so announced and that announced in 1970 as a positive decision of the former LiberalCountry Party Government? What differences, if any, are there between the equipment which was offered in the Hawker-Siddeley Australia Pty Ltd tender for the Nimrod aircraft to be supplied to Australia and that included in the tender now accepted for the purchase of Orion aircraft? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Transport been able to obtain any information in relation to the question concerning the increase, by nearly 10 times, in the garbage disposal charges to airlines at the Tullamarine Airport? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. Will the Minister cause an investigation to be made into the cause of the delay, now approaching some 12 months, in the Commonwealth Crown Solicitor's Office in Hobart advising the Health Department in relation to certain matters involving some five chemists in northern Tasmania who are alleged to be possibly in breach of the health regulations. This delay has imposed substantial hardship on those chemists, who have had prescription records seized and payments for large quantities of pharmaceuticals deferred by the Department. Will the Minister investigate? Is it not a fact that justice delayed is justice denied? 
-May I bring the debate back to the subject matter of the redistribution for Tasmania? I should like to comment on some of the reasons why I and the Opposition see this redistribution as one which should not proceed at this stage. We oppose the redistribution taking place. I remind honourable senators that a redistribution is due after the census that will be taken next year. I think Tasmania provides one of the best examples for illustrating the existing variations and the changes which are to be made as a result of this proposed redistribution. Tasmania is not an area of Australia which has a rapid population growth. In fact the stage has been reached, on the latest figures that I saw, where more than 25 per cent of Tasmanian born persons no longer reside in that State. Tasmania's greatest export is becoming its people. I know this is a tremendous advantage to the other States, but it does not increase the population of Tasmania at the same rate as the population is increasing in some areas of Melbourne and Sydney in particular. 
It is not as if there are likely to be very great changes in the next say, 2 years in the population of the various electorates in Tasmania. At the moment the variations range from 6.82 per cent below quota in the electorate of Bass to 6. 1 1 per cent over the quota in the electorate of Braddon. 
The proposed changes do not improve that situation. Whilst those percentage variations are well within the 10 percent tolerance provided in the legislation we find that under the proposals the electorate of Wilmot will have a variation of 6.2 per cent under the quota figure and the electorate of Braddon will still have a variation of 4.46 per cent over the quota figure. Tasmania does not have the huge variations which exist in some of the other States. Tasmanian electorates have nowhere near any variation approaching 10 per cent. 
The proposal to redistribute is simply a means of improving the Australian Labor Party's prospects, deliberately or otherwise. I do not pause to comment about that; I think  Senator Townley  has made some comments on it. I simply say that it is a means of improving the Australian Labor Party's prospects of winning seats in Tasmania. It will cause very substantial inconvenience to a lot of the electors of Tasmania and is totally unnecessary at this stage. It is opposed on those grounds by a number of sitting members in Tasmania- the ones who will lose some votes and the ones whose electors will be inconvenienced. Amongst them, as  Senator Townley  pointed out, is  Mr Sherry  in the seat of Franklin. I refer also to what  Mr Barnard  said in his objection dated 25 February 1975. Referring to his seat of Bass he said: 
I can see no value at all in varying this boundary. In fact I believe it will lead to confusion because of the lack of proper definition. 
He goes on to make further points about the inconvenience and the confusion to the electors which will follow the making of these relatively small variations that are proposed. The only advantage which will come out of the passing of this redistribution will be that whereas the seats of Denison and Wilmot would have required a 2 per cent to 3 per cent swing under the existing boundaries for Labor to lose them, under the proposed redistribution Wilmot will require a 3 per cent to 4 per cent swing and Denison a swing of nearly 5 per cent. The only seat which does not require a greater swing to be won by the Liberal Party is the seat of Franklin where the percentage comes down from something over 12 per cent to something under 12 per cent. The net result is that, whereas a swing of 2.68 per cent would be required in that State for the Liberal Party to win on the existing boundaries, under the proposed boundaries the Liberal Party would require a 3. 1 6 per cent swing. That may or may not be by design, but that is the net result. 
There is no real advantage to anybody who is an elector in Tasmania from the changes. It is not a matter of getting greater equality because the inequalities in the size of the electorates will remain. The greatest inequality at the moment is a seat with a 6.8 per cent variation under quota. In the proposed redistribution there will be a 6.2 per cent under quota variation in another electorate. So, no advantage is gained in that way. Probably the most important point in relation to electoral inconvenience, if these changes are passed, is that not only will a number of people have to get used to the idea that they are in a different Federal electorate, but also because the Federal electorates are used for the purposes of the State Parliament, and each of those electorates comprises 7 members for the purposes of State Parliament, every person who resides in an electorate for which the boundaries have been changed and who is placed in another electorate, will have his relationship with 8 members of Parliament affected. He will have to get used to a new Federal member and to the idea of 7 new State members. The inconvenience, for no advantage, is tremendous. 
In my submission there is just no good case made out in relation to Tasmania when one bears in mind the injunction in the legislation to have regard to existing boundaries and the inconvenience that is caused to electors by continual changes of boundaries. When one has regard to the fact that the boundaries carry through and apply to the 7 members of each of these electorates in the State Parliament, no advantage will be gained from passing this redistribution. There will be every disadvantage. The boundaries will have to be reviewed again in 1977 as a result of the 1976 census and this will happen in a State where the population growth is not, in the immediate future, likely to be large. I know that perhaps with changes of Federal and State governments the population growth in Tasmania might change but that is a matter a little further into the future; it does not apply between now and the redistribution which is due before the 1976 census. 
In all those circumstances and having convinced  Senator Wheeldon  entirely of the justice of the case  I  have put I am sure that not only will all of the Opposition senators be voting against this redistibution but also  Senator Wheeldon. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Will the Minister indicate the current situation in relation to the admission to Australia of South Vietnamese refugees? Is it a fact that the direct relations, that is parents, brothers and sisters and so forth, of Australian citizens who were formerly Vietnamese cannot be brought to Australia by the Australian citizens from Guam and other refugee camps? If this is so, will the Minister seek to have the rules reviewed to accord with what most Australians would agree is our minimum humanitarian obligation? 
-I shall be brief. I wish to add but little to the debate. I should like to subscribe to the views, philosophy and concern which I believe were very well expressed by  Senator Chaney.  I wish to add a little which I believe has not so far been adverted to in the debate in relation to the experience of the Race Relations Board in the United Kingdom. I think it is of some interest to look at that Board's experience, not in any way to say that this Bill should be altered in its approach or that we could do other than perhaps give some thought to the experience in the United Kingdom in reviewing from time to time how this legislation will operate in Australia. It is of some interest to note that in the calendar year 1972 a total of 908 complaints were made to the Race Relations Board and that the Board formed the opinion that there had been some discrimination in 181 of those cases. It is a relatively low percentage but it may be of some relevance to the sort of approach that is adopted under this legislation with which we are now dealing. 
Table 9 of the 1972 report of the Race Relations Board in the United Kingdom shows the completed cases for the period 1968 to 1972. One sees that in relation to only one category of complaints disposed of in that period of 5 full years did the Board, after investigation, make a finding of discrimination in more than 30 per cent of the cases in the category. In most instances the figure was less than 15 per cent of the total cases in a particular category. I thought that it would also be interesting to have discussions with some of the people who work for the Board and to inquire of them, as a result of the experience which they have had, whether they believe that their Board serves a useful purpose, structured as it is. I was somewhat surprised to find that eventually they were prepared to say that they believed it was more properly a matter of human rights than a matter of racial discrimination in the approach which should be adopted. 
That has been my reservation about this legislation- not in any way in relation to the objective which is attempted to be achieved but to the mode of approach and whether you are not better to view all citizens in Australia as being entitled to certain rights and certain protection by law, whether they are of a particular race, of a particular religion, or of a background or origin which may mark them as a minority group. I have always wondered whether our approach may not be better if we were not to emphasise racial discrimination as though it were the only form of discrimination that mattered but rather to concentrate on ensuring the human rights of all Australian citizens in relation to racial discrimination or any other form of discrimination. I simply make that as a contribution not in any way to take away from this Bill which I propose to support in general but rather as a matter which I believe is worth considering. I hope that this Bill will be reviewed from time to time to see whether it has achieved and continues to achieve the objectives which I believe honourable senators from both sides of the chamber wish it to achieve. I again indicate that I warmly support and adopt the general views, philosophy and concern which were so ably expressed by  Senator Chaney  and others. 
There are several matters I would like to raise in relation to clause 3.I will raise them one after the other in order to enable the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  to answer them. The first matter relates to the definitions. Clause 3 is the definitions clause and it includes a definition of services for children'. In relation to this there already has been an amendment made in the House of Representatives. It was made at the behest of the Opposition and accepted by the Government. I do not pause to refer to that improvement which we think has been made to the Bill but there is an omission and it seems that it may be intended to include it. I raise the matter not so that we can move an amendment but so that we can draw attention to a possible omission. In the definition ofservices for children' there does not appear to be any provision for emergency overnight care for children. This matter is regarded by many experienced organisations in the field as important, something which arises all too frequently. There is a need for emergency overnight care. It would be helpful to everybody, I am sure, if it could be clarified and stated whether it is intended to include this in some of the definitions set out. 
I raise the matter of the mode of payment of subsidies and seek some enlightenment and assurance that the modes adopted will not limit in any way the right of choice of the parent in relation to the type or location of centre to which the child will be sent or which the child will attend. In summary, will the mode of any subsidy or other rules of the Commission limit the exercise of the right of choice by the parent as to the centre or type of centre which the child will attend? 
-This is a Bill to establish a Children's Commission and to provide certain machinery in relation to the provision of services for children as defined in the Bill. The Opposition does not support the way in which the Government has gone about creating this Commission and we do not believe it is the best way in which services for children can be provided in Australia. However, we recognise that we are not in a position to totally restructure the Bill or to tell the Government what it should do but rather to support the basic objectives which underlie the Bill and which I believe are jointly shared by the Government and the Opposition. Accordingly the Opposition's attitude is one in which we say that given the chance we would not be doing it this way but, because we support the underlying objectives of the Bill, we will be supporting it but moving a few relatively minor amendments, accepting that we have to deal with the structure as proposed, even though it is a structure which we do not believe will best serve the interests of children in Australia. 
However the opportunity for us to do something more constructive about it will not come for perhaps another 2 years, at which stage we will be able to put forward when in government our own direct propositions in relation to this important area of legislation. The fact that there are two competing reports in this area expresses, I believe the uncertainty and the dilemmas that have beset this field in the past. On the one hand there are groups in the community that rightly believe that the kindergarten years, broadly between the ages of three and five where the emphasis is on education, should be expanded. There are others whose competing point of view is that the accent should be on child care centres to supplement the needs of the mother, to establish her right to work, as well as alleviating the problems of children whose parents need to work. 
This undercurrent of competing philosophies has bedevilled the whole field of child care and needs to be resolved. However it is not resolved by this Bill. I believe the fact that the Government has shown so much indecision in the past in relation to its child care program and the financial needs of such a program is part of a failure to appreciate that there are these competing modes of pre-school care which both need to be included in the overall considerations and which appear now to be at least to an extent taken into account in the Bill. But it remains a matter of some concern to us to have them further explained as to the philosophy that will be applied when the Commission is established and under way, because one of the points that becomes very clear in relation to this is that more is left unsaid than is said in the Bill. That may be desirable but I think many in Australia have expressed their concern about this Bill because it leaves so many things unsaid. We believe that there is a further complication in the fact that the Government does not adequately recognise in the legislation that there has been development through State authorities of pre-existing child care programs, and my colleague  Senator Guilfoyle  will be referring in detail to the situation in Victoria which it is believed has not been adequately taken into account and which is indicative of the developments in other States of Australia. 
If there was ever one area that should not be used as a political football and where 'cooperation' should be the key word between all sectors it is in the area of pre-school care. It requires a social sensitivity that cannot be cured merely by saying that we will give X amount of money and the problem will go away. To believe that one could overcome the competing forces by establishing a commission and by saying, 'here is a children's commission that will cure all your ills', is a somewhat facile remedy. The impression has been given that this is the Govenment's approach. It is my belief and expectation that the Commission will prove that it is capable of adopting a broad view of the problem and that it will prove it can make itself flexible in its approach and that the sort of concern and fears that have been expressed by many people- that directions and control will be the role of the Commission rather than encouragement and assistance- will not be well founded. 
But the Opposition believes that it would be far better to establish a children's bureau whose functions would be to faciliate achieving the objectives of pre-school care and education. It would appear to us to be preferable that such a children's bureau, sensitive to a number of social issues related to the care of children and allowing social sensitivity to be much sooner and better realised, would be better than a somewhat bureaucratic structure subject to the failings that any bureaucratic structure tends to have. We believe that there are examples of the fads that have existed in child care and the institutionalisation of child care. For example somebody has a bright idea and says that to cure the problem we need family day care, but to see that as the cure is inappropriate to the pre-existing structure. Without a lot of social upheaval in this area it is impossible as a short term overall objective, for the inescapable fact is that it is the private sector through people's own capital investment in buildings and equipment which is bearing so much of the brunt and enabling fewer children in the community to be so-called latch key children than otherwise would occur if that sector were squeezed out of business. We believe it is an important sector, which must be recognised in the administration under the proposed legislation of the Children 's Commission. 
Traditionally pre-school education exists for the age group 3 to 5 years, although there is an overlap in the last 6-month period with the primary school system. In their traditional context, child care centres have catered for working mothers. The main impetus for their establishment has been that there has been a requirement for women in the workforce. This has been modified in the last 10 years or so by the increasing exercise by women of their right to work. Within child care centres there has been a shift away from the purely custodial care of children, as it is becoming increasingly obvious that in the earlier years the child is learning at the fastest rate during his whole educational span. 
Therefore there have been these two organisational streams in the pre-school education and care sectors, and as a long term objective these streams will converge as the need to provide full time education programs becomes more relevant. This relevance is due to the fact that there is an increasing demand for full time education and care. In the lower socio-economic areas the demand for this is increasing and there is an increasing awareness in the community that children need more than just care- that they need a certain amount of educational content in the day's activity. Even though these streams may take a long time to converge, we believe it is a worthwhile objective that the 2 streams merge and not be set in relief as would have happened had perhaps the reports that have been provided in relation to this area been in either case accepted in toto. 
In the implementation of a coherent child care policy we believe it is important that extensive research into the needs of this area be undertaken and continued. The 'Women in the Workforce' series released in the late 1960s by the Women's Bureau of the Department of Labor, which was a Bureau established by  Mr Snedden  when he was the Minister, was a step in the right direction but this has not been followed through subsequently. I would expect that the children's bureau, which we propose as an alternative approach, would take this up as a major activity and draw information from all sectors covered under the departmental framework of what we see as community development. It should be a clear objective that pre-school education should be complementary to the family unit. It therefore becomes essential that parents be involved to the maximum extent possible. This may take the form of encouraging parents to form cooperatives to run child care centres within communities, either alone or in association with relevant municipalities. We see a clear role for local government. We see a clear role for State government. We do not see it as a matter solely for the Federal Government both to fund and to dictate. 
It should be feasible for parents who wish to establish their own pre-school or child care centre to have certain field information concerning management and administration made available to them. It also should be feasible for parents not only to control the administration of these centres but also to be involved in an advisory capacity, as already occurs in so many areas connected with the care and education of children. Whilst the Bill makes some provision in this respect, we fear that perhaps it does not go far enough. I shall be making further comments about that shortly. It is important for parents of groups which may be termed disadvantaged to be involved in the progress of their children. This may be done by establishing workshops with parents periodically discussing problems with people skilled in various aspects of child education and welfare. We are glad to see that in the services to children provision is made to enable that to happen. I hope that that will be one of the important tasks undertaken by the Children's Commission in carrying out its functions under the Bill. It is the sort of thing that could be done through a children's bureau, where pooling resources in the area would help to facilitate achievement of the objectives. 
By involving parents, recognition must be given to an increasing number of play groups. These are being set up in the community informally by parents. The need to enable parents to obtain access to the latest pre-school education and care thinking is another important role to be undertaken by the Children's Commission or the children's bureau. It is important, when talking about the play group and the parent involvement question, to remember one of the problems which have their effect upon children in our community. This problem arises out of large urban societies creating loneliness and, for mothers in particular but for families as a whole, creating problems which can be overcome by greater communication and association with people around them. We believe that the development of the play group and the involvement of parents in the pre-school care and education are things which will have their effect not only directly upon the child but also indirectly upon the child by making the mother a happier person and a person better able to participate in the child's development from a favourable point of view. There is nothing worse, of course, than being a child with a mother who is upset and lonely as a result of so many of the pressures of the type of society which we seem to be developing. Any steps which the Children's Commission takes towards involving parents will have that dual benefit. 
In the institutional framework there is no reason why centres cannot be run by government and by the private sector through associations or even through industry. In discussing industry one must, I believe, have regard to the fact that there are dangers as well as benefits in linking child care and education directly with a particular industry. Benefits are to be obtained by siting child care facilities close to large places of employment; but to have them totally tied is to run the risk, we believe, of tying the mother and reducing her right of choice of employment because she may experience the fear that if she exercises the right to change her employment she will have to change the child's place of care and education and the child will have to get used to new people, and that may be to the child's disadvantage. We therefore raise a caveat in relation to the development of industrial child care centres, believing that it may be better to concentrate upon locating them in industrial areas near large employing industries but with them not necessarily being totally run by those particular industries. 
I have already mentioned family day care. This has certain obvious attractions. There is a low capital investment component, but against this there is a need to have a developed system of supervision, as family day care implies, in the decentralisation of care into small units. Whilst it has been highly successful in many instances, there are also other instances in which the standard of supervision and the standard of care being provided leave a great deal to be desired. Again we say that whilst we believe that all of these avenues are avenues to be explored and developed there is, in relation to family day care, a need, in consultation with State governments, with local governments and with any of the groups involved, to ensure that adequate standards are maintained and that there is a sufficient degree of assistance and supervision to those who are providing the family day care facilities. One cannot get away from the major problem of child care, and that is the expense. Maintenance of a child in a centre costs in excess of $ 1 ,000 a year. The capital cost for each child for the establishment of the traditional child care centre is something approaching $3,000. These figures probably are a little out of date, as costs in our community are increasing so rapidly. I do not pause to engage in the inflation debate; I simply indicate that the costs in relation to child care are high indeed. If one is talking about something like 1.3 million children being in the age group with which we are concerned and if one is talking about the sorts of costs involved in relation to each of them, one can see that the amount involved is very great. 
Consistent with all of the policies of the Opposition is that all children should have an equal right to adequate pre-school education, especially if one realises that it is in this area that educational advantage first becomes manifest and the whole problem of social deprivation and subsequent delinquency has its origin. Therefore we have to balance the need to maintain standards which have been traditionally a State responsibility with the cost of a service which it will become increasingly a Federal responsibility to fund. Again this raises the problem of the balance intended under this legislation between the States- which have done a great deal, some more than others, in developing both standards and support for the provision of child care- and the Commonwealth bureaucracy which will be created and which on the face of it will have the power to bypass those State organisations. We believe that pre-school education should be treated as a co-operative effort between the Federal Government, State governments and local government, together with all voluntary organisations and all commercially run associations involved in the provision of pre-school care and education. If it is not, we are faced with various sectors competing in an inefficient manner for what are, after all, scarce resources. We believe that this aspect has not been catered for adequately in the Bill, and we will be moving certain amendments in relation to the improvement of that co-operation. We are concerned also to ensure that adequate attention is given to encouraging parents to look after their own children so far as possible, and to ensure that economic necessity does not deprive parents of the exercise of choice in this respect. Whilst we are not in any way denying the right of women to choose to work, nor are we failing to recognise the need for many women to work, we wish to remind the Government of the importance to a child of having its mother able to look after it rather than having some substitute care provided. Accordingly, believing that the family unit is of fundamental importance to our society and that steps should be taken to encourage mothers to be able freely to exercise a choice and to stay home to look after their children, we believe that steps must be taken by this Government to facilitate that choice and that so far as the child care program of the Children's Commission is concerned adequate emphasis must be given to that aspect which, if one reads the Bill, one gets the feeling is not intended to be part of the function of the Commission. 
A second point we make is that, as existing private child care centres provide over 70 per cent of the present care, they should receive adequate recognition and encouragement. We do not suggest that they should be developed to the exclusion of other forms of child care, but it would be unreal for anyone to suggest that they are not significant in Australia now or to suggest that they have not got a major contribution to make in the provision of advice and the lessons from experience. Again, I will be raising a little later the question of the constitution both of the Commission and of the boards. We believe there is an urgent need to ensure that parents, the private care centres, as well as all the various other interested organisations and groupings, should be availed of by the Commission in the advice that is given to it. 
There is at present a considerable fear among a number of Australian kindergartens that they will either be ignored or inadequately encouraged in carrying out their responsibilities to children. Again I believe it would be of advantage if the Minister could indicate when concluding the debate just what is proposed in relation to kindergartens- whether it is true, for instance, that the person who is likely to be administering the Children's Commission role in the city of Sydney has indicated that that person will be imposing very substantial requirements on kindergartens that will change the whole way in which they will be operating. Is it proposed, for instance, that where such requirements are made as a condition of the receipt of any money the extra expenses to be involved will also be provided for through funds provided by the Commission. We wish to stress the importance of continuing research, as I mentioned earlier, into the best method of providing child care, the expansion of family day care programs, subject to suitable supervision and regulation. 
We believe that it is a matter of fundamental concern that this should not be the development of a large bureaucracy controlling and directing the provision of services to children. We believe that it should oversee the effectiveness of existing bodies and encourage the filling of gaps rather than taking over. It has been reported to me that there is throughout the community a feeling that there has not really been adequate time to consider this proposed legislation. I believe that that is partly because of the inadequacy of the distribution of the legislation to interested groups throughout Australia rather than the actual time, because the Bill was introduced quite some time ago. On the Opposition's behalf I distributed over 100 copies of the Bill to interested organisations but find that, bearing in mind the way in which so many of these voluntary organisations are structured, it takes time for them to be able to put through their structures the consideration of something such as the Bill. 
I believe that the Government has fallen down on its job of ensuring that those who have been actively involved in this important area have an adequate chance to consider the provisions of the Bill before it is dealt with by the Parliament. I note that the Brotherhood of St Laurence made comments which support the view I have expressed. The Brotherhood has vast experience and I believe that its views should be given due weight. A Press statement issued by the Brotherhood states: 
The creation of another commission outside existing departments will further fragment social policy-making and the administration of child care and family welfare programs. It will also create a precedent for establishing other commissions with executive functions to provide services for other aid groups or people with specific categories of handicap. The trend should be to integrate and not fragment family and child care programs. Policies and programs, which vitally affect families and children, are already spread over several departments including Social Security, Health, Tourism and Recreation, Labor, Aboriginal Affairs and Education. 
The Prime Minister's Department has also been involved at one stage of this matter and now the 
Special Minister of State is involved. The Press statement continues: 
The Government should be aware of the difficulties created by a semi-autonomous commission with policymaking functions which has to rely on public service departments to implement its policies. This division of responsibility leads to delays, confusion, cumbersome procedures and can encourage misunderstandings and conflicts between the policy-making commission and the executive departments. 
The Brotherhood statement continues to make a number of comments which I believe are of value. One of them is as follows: 
The State Governments to continue with their existing commitments, to receive funds for distribution to local government, to provide training and educational facilities, specialist complexes and social planning. 
Basically the Brotherhood supports the Opposition's approach to this matter and the way in which the Opposition seeks to go about it. The children's bureau concept differs from the Children's Commission concept in the way in which the Brotherhood suggests. It would have the coordinating responsibility and it would be responsible for obtaining both input from the community and from other departments and coordinating approaches rather than being the separate bureaucratic structure for administration down the line. 
I wish to make several other points at this stage. I wonder what the Government is doing in relation to the important aspect of giving taxation relief as regards cost to parents of preschool children or in child care centres. Promises were made but they have not so far been fulfilled. In approaching this question I do not think I can give adequate consideration to it without receiving some comment about whether the Government proposes to honour its promises in relation to the tax deductibility of at least a percentage of the cost to parents of payments to child care or pre-school facilities. Other points which I make, which require some clarification, and which may be dealt with at greater length in the Committee stage but which I will use the time now to raise so that some thought may be given by the Minister include: Why are there no guidelines for the appointment of Commission members? This is a matter of concern not only to people such as the Youth Council of Tasmania which raised it with me, but also to the Council for Civil Liberties, which has raised this aspect. I think it raises the general question of guidelines in relation to the appointment of commissions as part of a general legislative approach, a civil liberties question and a mode of legislating. It also has a specific interest in this case because there are many groups who believe that it is of the utmost importance that there be a 'representative' on the Children's Commission. The view was strongly put to me by a number of teachers' bodies throughout Australia that teachers should be represented actually on the Commission as well as on State advisory bodies. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  If I may, I shall conclude during the Committee stage of the debate the matters which I have raised. 
-The next point to which I refer also relates to clause 3. There does not appear to be any specific encouragement for parents who elect to care for their own children on a full-time basis rather than taking the alternative of working and making use of child care facilities provided and encouraged pursuant to this Bill. This matter was specifically and very firmly raised by the Australian Council of State School Organisations, amongst others, and it was said that this was an important objective to be adverted to in this piece of proposed legislation. I raise the matter for some comment by the Minister. 
As a social laboratory Tasmania has proved successful in the past in many ways. We may take it that there is no conclusion and that the matter is subject to experiment at this stage with a view to assuring, if possible, the right of election on the part of parents. Does that summarise the situation? 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 4 agreed to. 
Clause 5. 
1 ) The functions of the Commission are- 
with the approval of the Minister, to make grants out of the moneys of the Commission, on such conditions, if any, as the Commission determines, of financial assistance of the kind referred to in sub-paragraph (a) (ii). 
In the performance of its functions, the Commission shall, to the greatest extent practicable, consult and cooperate with Departments of State and with authorities established by  or  under laws of Australia, being Departments or authorities responsible for aspects of the planning of, the provision of, the training of persons to provide, and the provision of financial assistance for, services for children. 
-I refer to the matters which I mentioned in the second reading debate earlier today and to the fact that we do not agree with the way in which the Commission is being created and structured. We believe that this approach has a number of faults, which I outlined, and that it would be much better to approach it from the point of view of creating a children's bureau. I refer now to the proposed mode of funding, which is one of the matters with which we find some disagreement. This clause relates to the functions of the Commission. Paragraph (d) provides: 
With the approval of the Minister, to make grants out of the moneys of the Commission, on such conditions, if any, as the Commission determines, of financial assistance of the kind referred to in sub-paragraph (a) (ii). 
The effect of that is that the Government is proposing that funds in respect of the services for children will be paid by the Commonwealth pursuant to section 8 1 of the Constitution direct to receiving bodies, be they local government bodies, private organisations or whatever they may be. We believe that in a federation there is an obligation on the part of the Commonwealth Government to follow the course of devolution provided for in the Constitution and to use section 96 grants in this circumstance so that the situation, which has already been adverted to in considerable detail by my colleague  Senator Guilfoyle  in her speech on the second reading, of the organisation which has been structured in the States and which is already set up for ensuring that the money flows down to the appropriate organisations can be followed. We propose therefore to move for the deletion of this paragraph, which in no way affects the moneys that would be available but affects the method of payment of those moneys. We do not in any way suggest that the moneys that have been appropriated should not be made available for the purposes of providing services for children; it is simply a question of the mode to be adopted. We are suggesting that the appropriate mode, consistent with the federal principle, is that section 96 of the Constitution be used for this purpose rather than section 8 1 . 
This meets with the wishes of a number of State governments of Australia with which we have discussed the matter and it is believed that this will be a better means of ensuring the most adequate utilisation of the total funds available in Australia. It will also lessen the likelihood of creating an all powerful bureaucracy from the centre and we believe it will make the ultimate result more in the interests of the children of Australia. I move: 
In sub-clause ( 1 ), leave out paragraph (d). 
-I notice that the Minister has been referring to what happened in regard to the previous legislation introduced by the former Liberal and Country Party Government. I am proud to be able to say that we did some pioneering in this field, but I am also proud to be able to say that we are capable of learning the lessons to be learnt as one experiences the way in which things operate. Any differences between the way in which we piloted the scheme and the comments we now make are the result of experience and further consideration. We will be persisting with the amendment. I would like to raise another matter which is not the subject of an amendment but which I raise for comment by the Minister. Why is it that there is no emphasis at all in clause 5 or elsewhere in the Bill on any concept of the development and protection of children's rights as such? This concept, which I think is now well known, is being debated and argued in many areas, yet this Bill does not appear to advert to it at all. 
-I wish to make 2 points. I noticed that my colleague  Senator Guilfoyle  referred to sub-clause (3). Of course, an amendment has been circulated which relates to sub-clause (4). If the Minister is agreeable, may we deal with sub-clauses (1), (2) and (3) at this stage and deal separately with subclause (4)? 
I draw attention to sub-clause ( 1 ), which reads: 
The functions of the Commission are- 
to ascertain the needs of the Australian community for services for children and to make recommendations to the Minister in respect of those needs, including recommendations in relation to- (iri) the education and training of persons involved, or to be involved, in the provision of services for children; 
In relation to that training, I should like to ask the Minister whether he can elaborate at all on the attitude of the Government and its officers as to the role which in-service training will play under that provision. To what extent will inservice training be regarded as an important and integral part of the training, or will there be a concentration on the formalised external training at colleges, universities or other institutions? 
-Clause 5, sub-clause (4), to which I now wish to direct the Committee's attention, reads: 
In the performance of its functions, the Commission shall, to the greatest extent practicable, consult and cooperate with Departments of State and with authorities established by or under laws of Australia, being Departments or authorities responsible for aspects of the planning of, the provision of, the training of persons to provide, and the provision of financial assistance for, services for children. 
There are 2 amendments I wish to move in relation to the sub-clause. The first amendment is to delete the words 'to the greatest extent practicable'. As has been indicated by speakers on the Government side it is desired that there should be consultation. If both sides agree that there should be consultation, then there is no need to include the limiting escape clause, using the words 'to the greatest extent practicable'. The clause would then read, if our amendment was carried, 'In the performance of its functions, the Commission shall consult and co-operate with Departments of States, etc' We believe that it appeared from what  Senator Coleman  and the Minister had said that this was the Government's intention. If it is the Government's intention that that form of consultation and co-operation should take place, there is no need to include the words 'to the greatest extent practicable'. At some time a future Children's Commission might find it impracticable to have any consultation and co-operation when obviously the judgment as to what is the greatest extent practicable would be the judgment of the Commission itself. As we believe that the Commission should be obliged to consult and co-operate, we desire to omit the words 'to the greatest extent practicable'. I move: 
In sub-clause (4) leave out ', to the greatest extent practicable,'. 
There is another amendment in that same clause with which I will deal separately. 
I am grateful for the comments that have been made in relation to this matter, because they assist towards an understanding of the way in which this Bill when it becomes an Act will operate. In the light of what has been said by the Minister and  Senator Everett,  I am inclined at present not to pursue this to a division on the assurance that has been given by both of them that the Government's intention and instruction to the Commissionand obviously the Commission will have regard to the debate which has taken place in this chamberwill be that the meaning to be given is an increase in the obligations on the Commission for consultation and co-operation, not a decrease. I believe the clause is ambiguous and I believe that the debate has clarified the view of this chamber in relation to the meaning of the potential ambiguous terminology. The ambiguity comes from the fact that it is a subjective qualification so far as the Commission is concerned, namely, its view of what is the greatest extent practicable. As  Senator Hall  has said, it could be used to limit very much the degree to which there would be consultation and cooperation. In view of the greatest clear statement of intention and the fact that the Commission shall have regard to the debate that has taken place and to the explanation that has been given, I will continue to move the motion but I will not call for a division. 
Amendment negatived. 
There is a further amendment which I believe will undoubtedly strengthen the legislation. Here again it is possible that there is some misunderstanding, because  Senator Coleman  made certain comments during her speech on the second reading debate. Let me read again the provisions of sub-clause (4) of clause 5. It states: 
In the performance of its functions, the Commission shall, to the greatest extent practicable, consult and co-operate with Departments of State and with authorities established by or under laws of Australia . . . 
I pause there and say that we propose to insert after 'Australia' the words 'or of any State or Territory'. As the sub-clause stands, it is our view that it means that that consultation and cooperation is with the Departments or authorities established under what is known in the Constitution as Commonwealth law, the laws of Australia being the laws made by that entity which so frequently appears in legislation in the past  Vh  years, which used to be called the Commonwealth of Australia but which is now called Australia. If there is no intention that it should be taken that way there is no reason at all why the Minister in charge of the Bill should not agree to our amendment to put the matter beyond doubt. In other words, if the idea is that the consultation and co-operation shall be with departments and authorities established under the laws of the Commonwealth, the States of Australia and the Territories of Australia no doubt the Minister would support our amendment. I gained the impression from what  Senator Coleman  said that she would support our proposed amendment and that that was her understanding of what was intended. I move: 
In sub-clause (4), after 'Australia', insert 'or of any State or Territory'. 
The sub-clause would then read: 
In the performance of its functions, the Commission shall, to the greatest extent practicable, consult and co-operate with Departments of State and with authorities established by or under laws of Australia or of any State or Territory being Departments or authorities responsible for aspects of the planning of, the provision of, the training of persons to provide, and the provision of financial assistance for, services for children. 
I wish to comment only on what the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  said concerning clause 3 1 which provides for State Advisory Boards and certain relationships with State departments and organisations under State law. But in our view that does not adequately cover the requirement that consultation and co-operation so far as the Children's Commission is concerned should be community based. We would seek to have that matter clarified by the insertion of the words contained in the amendment to ensure that the Bill covers organisations and departments under Commonwealth law and under the law of a State or Territory. 
In relation to sub-clause 8 ( 1) (c) I ask what is intended by the provision for the Commission to 'acquire, hold and dispose of real and personal property'? Is it intended that this Commission shall actually acquire homes or centres for use for the purposes of this legislation or is this sub-clause simply intended to allow it to have offices or any other administrative centre for itself? It is just a matter of clarification being sought. 
In relation to this clause a number of teachers organisations throughout Australia have expressed the view that there should be express provision to ensure teacher representation on the Commission. We do not propose a particular amendment but I take the opportunity to ask what is the Government's intention in regard to the representation of interested groups and professions which are involved? Is it intended at this stage that a full Commission of nine shall be appointed or is it thought that the number may be as low as four? If it is to be as low as four, I indicate to the Goverment that many organisations in Australia would express very grave concern that such a small number is not adequate for the task. I have received representations from other groups, such as kindergarten groups and mothers groups, all indicating that they believe that they should be represented on the Commission and that there should be express provision for representation. We are moving no amendment. I am seeking an explanation of the Government's intentions in this regard. 
I ask the Minister whether further consideration will be given to making an amendment to add a new sub-clause 12 (5) to read: 
The  Chairman  or  Deputy Chairman  may resign from the position of  chairman  or  deputy chairman  but may remain in office as a member or part-time member of the Commission until the expiration of the period for which he was appointed. 
The object of such an amendment would be to enable somebody who had had experience as a chairman or deputy chairman, but who no longer was able to fulfil that task, to give to the Commission the benefit of his experience and expertise and to remain on the Commission for the remainder of his term. Other advantages might be available in the administration of the Commission if such a sub-clause were provided. This matter was raised in the debate in the House of Representatives. As I understand it the Minister indicated at that time that the Government was not prepared to accede to such a request. I raise it by way of a request because the Opposition does not regard it as being of such vital importance that it would pursue it by way of an amendment, but the Opposition does see it as being something to which attention should be given. Perhaps there has been a change of heart on the part of the Government between the time when the matter was raised in the House of Representatives and now. 

 - Mr Temporary Chairman, may we take clauses 20 and 22 together because the point I wish to make relates to both clauses? Clause 20 provides that the rights of a public servant appointed as a full time member are to be preserved. It states: 
If a person appointed as a full time member was, immediately before his appointment, an officer of the Australian Public Service or a person to whom the Officers* Rights Declaration Act 1928-1973 applied- 
he retains his existing and accruing rights . . . 
Clause 22 provides: 
The Governor-General may enter into an arrangement with the Governor of a State for the services of officers or employees of the Public Service of the State or of an authority of the State to be made available to the Commission. 
The point I raise and which has been raised with me by the governments and Public Services of some of the States is: Why should the provisions of clause 20 not apply in relation to any members of a State Public Service who go into the service of the Commission pursuant to an arrangement between the Australian Government and a State government? 
-Clause 31 provides for the establishment of State and Territory Children 's Commission Advisory Boards. I again take advantage of the opportunity to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  to let us know the current thinking of the Government- its policy- in relation to the constitution of these boards and the role of these boards. I know that some reference has been made to these matters in the speeches that have been made in relation to the debate on the motion for the second reading of the Bill, but I would seek some further elaboration in relation to the areas from which the members of the boards will be drawn and the right of a State government to appoint at least one of the members of such a board. I believe that that is a matter that was specifically dealt with in the debate in the House of Representatives. I would like further information in relation to that and would extend the matter further to ask from what other areas it is intended to draw the people who will make up the membership of these advisory boards. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
With reference to the Prime Minister's answer to Senate Question No. 506, to which galleries in what other countries was the Prime Minister referring. 
What have been 'the problems'. 
To which galleries, at what times and in what Australian States was the Prime Minister referring when he mentioned 'the problems which have often arisen in . . . some Australian States'. 
What were 'the problems'. 
To ensure that the Parliament can assess and guard against what the Prime Minister described as 'unfortunate results' would the Prime Minister now itemise the instances which he described as evidencing 'unlikely and unreasonable combinations'. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will the Prime Minister answer in detail Senate Question No. 520 on art galleries which was placed on the Senate Notice Paper on 23 April 1975 before the Australian National Gallery Bill is debated in the Senate. 
I present 3 petitions from 13, 25 and 77 citizens of Tasmania identical in wording to a petition presented by  Senator Carrick  this day, in the following terms: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
1 ) That Parliament should reject the Bill currently before it to establish an Australian Government Insurance Office. 
That while there is a need to establish in Australia a Natural Disaster Fund to provide compensation for property damage and other losses resulting from disasters such as earthquakes, floods and cyclones, such a Fund can be established, as in other countries, using the medium of the existing private enterprise insurance offices. 
That a plan for such a Fund was submitted to the Treasury in October 1974. 
That no reasons for the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office (other than the desire to provide non-commercial disaster insurance and Australian Government competition with private enterprise) have been given by the Government. 
That there is already intense competition between the existing 45  lire  assurance offices and between over 260 general insurance companies now operating in Australia, and that further competition from a Government Office would only be harmful. 
That the insurance industry is already faced with 
the effects of inflation, 
increased taxation on life assurance offices, 
the effects of recent natural disasters, 
other legislative measures already in train or in prospect by the Government, e.g. the National Compensation Bill, a National Superannuation Plan and improved Commonwealth Public Service Superannuatoin. 
That as taxpayers your petitioners are greatly concerned at the huge costs (far more than the $2 million initial capital and loan funds which it is proposed will be allocated) of establishing an Australian Government Insurance Office. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House will reject the Bill. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received and first petition read. 
-The Opposition is delighted that the Government has seen reason in relation to this matter and we are delighted to be able to reach a compromise which will put into effect the desire which we have that self-determination in relation to the Aboriginal people in Queensland should be real and not illusory. We have argued during the debate on this matter that if there was a desire expressed by the councils of the Aboriginal communities that they should have the right to determine who can enter and who can remain on their reserves in their communities then that they ought to have that right just as every Australian has the right to determine who shall come into his home, who shall come into the normal family unit, as we understand it, in the average urban community. 
There is a clear analogy between the two. The Aboriginal community with its elected council ought to have, in our view, the right which is being given to it by the proposal now put forward by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh).  We believe that it is a major step forward by the Commonwealth Parliament in the recognition of the right to selfdetermination. This is an aspect which has been pursued by the Opposition and we are glad that it has been pursued with success. We believe that it was clearly the desire of those councils that they should have this right and that this will provide for their wishes. 
However, there is another aspect that I would like to take the opportunity to raise and that is to see just how far the Government intends to go in pursuing some consistent line in relation to this matter. I believe it is relevant to refer to the Northern Territory Social Welfare Ordinance which includes in section 18 the following provision: 
) Where a welfare officer who is so authorised is satisfied that the behaviour of a person who has such a right and is on a reserve is such that it is desirable for the maintenance of order on the reserve that the person should not be on the reserve or a part of the reserve, he may declare to the person that the person's right to enter or remain on the reserve, or on such part of the reserve as the welfare officer specifies, is suspended for such period not exceeding thirty days as the welfare officer specifies. 
A welfare officer may be authorised by the Administrator to suspend the right of a person to enter and remain on a reserve in the Northern Territory. There is power under the Ordinance to authorise a person to enter and remain on a reserve or to declare or order that the right of a person to enter or remain on a reserve or a part of a reserve is or shall be suspended and includes a power to revoke the authorisation, declaration or order. The Director of Social Welfare or a person appointed under the Ordinance is declared to be a welfare officer, 
I wonder what the distinction is between the provisions in the Queensland legislation which will be affected by the amendment with which we are now dealing and the powers that are given to the Administration in the Northern Territory under the Social Welfare Ordinance to give directions and make orders as to who shall go onto and who shall leave a reserve in the Northern Territory. We take the opportunity to challenge the Government to be consistent and to make provision in the Northern Territory for the councils to be able to have the same right that is now being given to Queensland councils to make the determination free from interference by Government departments. We would add that we understand that there is a likelihood of legislation being introduced as a result of the Woodward report in relation to Aboriginal land rights and we will look with considerable interest to that legislation when it comes before the chamber to find out whether a consistent line has been adopted in the drafting of that legislation. We will support the amendment moved by the Minister. We are glad that the Government has changed from the hard line it was adopting and which we believe was not in the best interests of the people whose interests we were concerned to safeguard. It was clearly against the wishes of those people. We believe that the amendment now should be supported. 
I wish to reply to what the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  has said in relation to the Yarrabah community, because the information I have received indicates that at least the matters referred to by the Minister are not beyond dispute. The information which I have indicates that the Queensland Government Department has been acting at the request of the Aboriginal Community Council. I understand that the Aboriginal Community Council expressed concern on a number of occasions about the developing events and particularly at what appeared to be a deliberate attempt by Commonwealth officers to ignore, or at least to disregard, their responsibility locally to the community and to the development of the area. I understand that on 1 7 January 1975 the Community Council appealed to the Department for legal assistance and guidance in response to a news release which indicated that the Commonwealth Government was providing funds for some of the people who were the subject of the matter raised by the Ministerthat is, the people who were short term residents or visitors to the area. 
I understand that on 27 February 1975 the  Chairman  of the Council appealed personally by telephone requesting a visit by a senior State official for guidance in regard to the Bud.dabadoo area, the interference by outside groups which had no responsibility locally, and support for the Community Council against the pressures being exerted by the Aboriginal Legal Aid Service in Cairns. I understand further that because of local legal aid involvement the  Chairman  of the Council sought the support of the Queensland Solicitor-General's Department in order to remove legally certain of the visitors to the reserve who, whilst initially there with Council approval, were resisting movement from the reserve and were impeding and in fact attempting to dominate the Council within the reserve. I understand that the Queensland SolicitorGeneral 's Department did provide the advice requested. 
I could go on further, but I simply indicate that it is quite clear that the matters referred to by the Minister are perhaps one side of what is clearly a matter in dispute. I understand that it would not be disputed that these requests have been made to the Queensland Department by the  Chairman  of that Council. These matters can be substantiated from the records. 
It is said by  Senator Keeffe  that we are trying to knock the Council down. We are the ones who have been trying to support the right of the Council. It was the Government which was trying to knock it down. I do not wish this to be the subject matter of debate this afternoon. I wish to put on record what is another side to the matter which the Minister has chosen to introduce. 
I wish to rise briefly on an entirely different matter. It relates to the answering of questions on notice. On 13 November I asked a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Tourism and Recreation. Since then I have asked a number of questions of that Minister and, as tourism is within my shadow ministerial responsibility, I have been anxious to obtain information. I have asked a number of questions and I cannot get any answers. I do not know whether it is as a result of the negligence or incompetence of the Minister or his Department but I do suggest to the Senate that it is an intolerable situation when 6 months or more go by without answers being given to relatively simple questions. If they were so complex that the Minister regarded them as unreasonable questions, surely to goodness he could bring that fact back to the Senate by saying that the cost of obtaining the information sought was beyond reason. But simply to ignore question after question- I think there are some 8 questions on notice which date back to 13 November and which have not been answeredI regard as either a result of incompetence, negligence or wilful refusal to answer questions. I give notice that if the questions are not answered we shall have to consider whether we will pass the Estimates for that Department next time they come around. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) When the Prime Minister left Australia for Peru did he and his party travel on normal commercial flights, if not, why not. 
On her recent visit did Her Royal Highness the Princess Anne and Captain Mark Phillips travel to Australia on normal commercial flights. 
Will the Prime Minister in future follow the example of the economy saving, employed by the Royal Family in using normal commercial flights or does he intend to force the taxpayers to foot the bill for his luxury VIP travel. 
If it is good enough for the Royal Family to use commercial flights why cannot the Prime Minister do the same. 
asked the Minister representing  the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
Did the following appear in the Minister's Department's Advisory Service Newsletter of March 1975:  . . the Government is pledged to make grants, loans, tax concessions and inducements to ensure that Australian cities are provided with accommodation and amenities of international standard'; if so, for what organisations and purposes do tax concessions in this context now apply. 
Of these, which have been implemented by the Minister's Government. 
What form do the tax concessions take. 
What tax concessions has the Government announced that will be implemented in the future and to what organisations are they to apply. 
When is it expected the tax concessions in (4) will be introduced. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
1 ) Who are the members of the Study Group on the feasibility of a National Sporting Institute. 
What were the terms of reference for the Study Group. 
What were the principal recommendations of the Study Group. 
When was the Group's report handed to the Minister. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Tourism and Recreation the following question upon notice: 
How does the Minister reconcile the Government's policy objective ' to boost travel to and in Australia by progressive aviation policies and improvements in major transport routes and services' with the Australian Labor Party's recent decision to increase airport rent charges by up to 2000 per cent. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
1 ) Are State Governments required to submit to the Federal Minister for Tourism and Recreation, for his approval, their recreation projects where they seek Commonwealth Government contributions. 
Has no decision yet been made on the Victorian projects for 1 974-75, notwithstanding that 4 months of the year has now passed. 
Is the delay likely to cause some of the projects to be scrapped. 
Will the Minister expedite a decision before inflation makes them beyond the means of the State. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
1 ) What guidelines were established when the present Government first began making direct individual grants to sporting associations and groups. 
Have the guidelines been modified; if so, what are those modifications. 
What mechanisms are employed to ensure that such grants are utilised for the purpose for which they were initially made. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Tourism and Recreation the following question, upon notice: 
In view of the Minister's remarks about the circumstances surrounding the election of the Olympic Gold Medallist, Miss M. Wylie, of Sydney to the International Hall of Fame, what are the names of individual sportsmen and sportswomen who have received direct Government assistance since December 1972. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
When will he answer my question No. 360 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 13 November 1974. 
asked the Minister representing  the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the Prime Minister travelled in a chartered Qantas Airways Limited jet from Australia to visit Peru and Jamaica. 
Is it a fact that the caviar purchased for the consumption of the Prime Minister and his party cost over $2,000; if not, what was the exact-cost. 
Was the caviar specially obtained from Russia. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration and Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in matters relating to the Public Service, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Government recently endorse new criteria for decentralising Australian Public Servants away from Canberra; if so when. 
What were the criteria and in which centres are Australian Public Servants to be located or relocated. 
How do the criteria relate to Tasmania. 
What specific proposals are planned for Tasmania and when will they come into force. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Were packages, posted in Hobart on 2 May 1975 by several Government Departments and addressed to the King Island Council, not received until 14 May 1975, and were some received even later. 
Is 12 days delay a normal time for the 300 mile delivery of posted parcels. 
Is there any way in which the residents of King Island can be provided with a mail delivery service, including parcels, more in keeping with the twentieth century. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Which countries does the Australian Government define as being part of the Pacific Islands region. 
Which countries does the New Zealand Government define as being part of the Pacific Islands region. 
What has been Australia's monetary foreign aid contribution to the Pacific Islands region for each of the years 1960-61 to 1973-74. 
For what purposes and to which nations has this aid been given. 
What has been New Zealand's monetary foreign aid contribution to the Pacific Islands region for each of the years 1960-61 to 1973-74. 
For what purposes and to which nations has this aid been given. 
What other non-monetary forms of Australian foreign aid have been given over the same period, to which countries and for what purposes. 
What other non-monetary forms of New Zealand foreign aid have been given over the same period, to which countries and for what purposes. 
Taking the Pacific Islands region as a whole, what has Australia 's total foreign aid contribution been to that region in terms of a percentage of GNP for each of the years 1960-61 to 1973-74, and what has been the total contribution in terms of Australian aid dollars per head of population for the same period. 
10) Taking the Pacific Islands region as a whole, what has New Zealand's total foreign aid contribution been to that region in terms of a percentage of GNP for each of the years 1960-61 to 1973-74 and what has been the total contributionin terms of New Zealand aid dollars per head of population for the same period. 
Other than Australia and New Zealand what are (a) the main sources of foreign aid to the Pacific Islands region, (b) what forms does it take, and (c) to which countries is it given. 

 -Mr Deputy President, I understand that  Senator Wriedt  is now back in the chamber and that this matter, which was adjourned earlier, can be finalised. 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to move a motion for the re-establishment of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange in accordance with the views which I would wish to outline in a moment. 
I present the final report of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange together with relevant documents: 
Australian Securities Markets and their Regulation- 
Part 1- Report from the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange- Volume 3- Queensland Mines, Committee Documents, Legal Opinions. 
I move: 
That the report and documents be printed. 
I should explain that in moving this motion it is proposed that when printing this final report as a parliamentary paper it should be incorporated with part one of the report which was presented to the Senate on 18 July 1974. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 Senator RAE (Tasmania)- by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
In the preface to its report tabled on 18 July 1 974 your Committee said: 
The Committee decided to publish this report without awaiting the completion of a chapter on matters relating to certain announcements and geological assessments by Queensland Mines. We believe however that this chapter provides important insights into Stock Exchange and Company practices as well as providing lessons related to the supervision of the securities industry. It will be published as soon as possible. 
This publication is also without the final chapter relating to further, but less important recommendations of the Committee. That chapter will also be tabled in the Senate as soon as possible. 
In both instances the early drafts have been completed. However the Committee desired to give further consideration to them and to have them extended. 
In taking its decision to table the Report in its present form the Committee recognised the keen interest of the Senate and was aware of the importance of taking the earliest opportunity to provide the major parts of the report to those concerned with the introduction of new laws governing the securities industry and to the public. 
The Committee believed that the integrity of the Report would not be destroyed by its publication without those chapters, though we emphasise that the final printed report must contain them. 
As you will recall,  Mr President,  the Committee was not reconstituted to proceed with the task of completing its report until 24 October 1974. It immediately set to the task of finalising the existing draft of Chapter 13 relating to Queensland Mines Ltd. On 5 December 1974 the Government introduced the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill 1974. This took place prior to the 
Committee having had the opportunity to complete the early draft of its proposed Chapter 1 7 which, as quoted above, was to relate to 'further, but less important, recommendations of the Committee'. It had been intended that this Chapter would draw together the many recommendations made throughout the report and would provide further detail of the recommendations, within the Committee's terms of reference, regarding the powers and functions of the proposed Securities Commission. The terms of reference said that the Committee was appointed to inquire into and report upon: 
The desirability and feasibility of establishing a securities and exchange commission by the Commonwealth either alone or in co-operation with the States and the powers and functions necessary for such a commission to enable it to act speedily and efficiently against manipulation of prices, insider trading and such other improper or injurious practices as the Committee finds have occurred or may occur in relation to shares and other securities of public companies, and to recommend generally in regard to the foregoing such legislative and administrative measures by the Commonwealth as will, having regard to the constitutional division of legislative power in Australia, enable the utmost protection of members of the public and the national interest. 
We believe that we have fulfilled those terms of reference. It was not our charge to make recommendations in specific detail but rather the word generally' is used. It was not our function to draft a Bill but rather to outline the nature of the abuses, malpractices and improper practices which we found existed in relation to the operation of our securities markets. With the presentation of this Chapter relating to the abuses and failures of both the self regulatory and government regulatory bodies in dealing with the problems and abuses connected with the company Queensland Mines Ltd we have, we believe, completed an outline of examples of the overwhelming case for the reform of the securities industry and the creation of a Securities Commission. 
This Chapter contains matter extending beyond matters otherwise dealt with in the reports. In particular it details cases of insider trading, abuses and failures in relation to geological reporting and the dangers to the investing public of persons assuming roles of potential conflict of interest. It is a good example of the broad nature of the problems involved in regulating the securities industry and of the way in which such regulation involves all States and Territories and extends overseas. It is an example which supports the Committee's strongly held view that a national approach under Commonwealth law is necessary for the establishment of an effective Securities Commission. 
In introducing the Corporation and Securities Industry Bill the then Attorney-General said: 
The Senate Committee's report has been studied closely, and changes have been made to the draft Bill that had already been prepared in the light of the matters discussed in the report and the recommendations made by the Committee. 
The Committee believes that once the Bill was introduced the parliamentary process was best served by the development of a public debate about, and a parliamentary consideration of, the Government's proposed legislation rather than this Committee completing, for publication, its lesser recommendations. The major recommendations appear throughout its published chapters. They were, it is said, taken into account in the preparation of the Bill. Accordingly the Committee's drawing together of those recommendations and some supplementation of them would add little more than neatness to the Committee's service to the Senate. 
Questions regarding the desirability of a Commonwealth Companies Act or even a Commonwealth Act introducing a part of what may be the necessary company law, as has happened in the composite Corporations and Securities Industry Bill, were not, we believe, included in the Committee's terms of reference. Of course it is difficult to consider the whole subject without considering this aspect and some comments and recommendations touching company law appear in the general body of the Committee's report.  Mr President,  your Committee members considered the question of whether it should, in the circumstances following the introduction of the Bill and before its final report, seek to proceed to consider the Bill itself. Bearing in mind that of its 7 members two were then Ministers of the Crown, it was decided that if the Bill was to be considered by a committee it should be by a committee constituted for that purpose and able to use this Committee's full report and recommendations in the course of that consideration. We believe that the parliamentary process and the national interest will be enhanced by the action taken in this regard. We remain concerned that the interests of the small shareholder should be protected and advanced within the concept of a free, open, fair and efficient market system. In fact it is integral to it. 
The Senate Select Committee on the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill will consider the extent to which the Bill does, in fact, follow the recommendations of this Committee and in the case of divergence then the merits of either proposition. We believe that our reports to the Senate have answered the fundamental question and that the case for an Australian Securities Commission, established by legislation of this Parliament, is overwhelming. We take some pride in the fact that no-one has demonstrated any significant defect in the case studies produced by the Committee to support that case. We take the opportunity to restate that our report was not prepared as a case for the prosecution of any individual or company but rather as a case for the reform of the securities industry. For that reason much of the evidence available to the Committee which may have been necessary for the prosecution of an individual or company but added little or nothing to the description of the abuse or malpractice has been omitted. It is not a Senate Committee's function to conduct nor make out the case for conducting prosecutions. This is the duty of self regulatory and government bodies to undertake. 
It is with considerable faith in the Senate Committee system that notwithstanding the inevitably controversial aspects of the area included in Committee's terms of reference I am able to present a unanimous report from a Committee comprised of members of 4 parties. I take the opportunity to pay tribute to the preparedness of members to apply the finest principle of Senate committees in conducting a parliamentary inquiry substantially free from fixed party-line positions and in the broad interest of the future Australia. I express the personal view that this is the real role of the Senate. I also take the opportunity to add that I regret that due to the vagaries of political life, one conscientious member of the Committee, whose contribution and loyalty to the purpose of the Committee was considerable, is no longer a member of the Committee. Jack Little played his part well. 
I also take the opportunity to reiterate what we said in the report tabled on 18 July 1974 in relation to the invaluable work of the Committee staff and advisers, particularly the indefatigable and brilliant economic investigator  Dr John  Rose. The publication of the Queensland Mines Chapter brings to mind the valuable contribution of Professor Blainey and  Mr Tom  Fitzgerald in the preparation of the earlier drafts as well as the further work by  Mr Mervyn  Lincoln in relation to that Chapter. I wish however to add that irrespective of the assistance in drafting the Committee accepts the responsibility for every word published in this representation, however laborious its production, of its views and conclusions. 
I wish to mention also the work of  Mr Don  Selth  Mr Malcolm  Hills and Miss Gillian Fleming of the Committee secretariat for their work in continuing the high standard of the work of their predecessors in the provision of the fundamental Senate Committee secretariat work without which our committees would not succeed. Finally, I wish to thank the other members of the Committee for their loyalty to a purpose. I do not need to stress the problems generated by the fact that this Committee, rightly or wrongly, broke new ground in the development of the role of the Senate Committee system. The strains imposed on members of the Committee in retaining its cohesiveness were, at times, very great. The fact that it conducted its controversial inquiry and produced a unanimous report in those circumstances is, perhaps, its most important contribution to the development of the Senate Committe system.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack as the first  Chairman  of the Committee laid the foundation. In retrospect I can but say I feel honoured to have been involved in the totality of operation. If we proved that Parliament does matter and can achieve something in the overall development and periodic cleansing of our socio-economic system then the time taken was, in personal terms, justified. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Motion for Re-establishment of Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. Is it a fact that the Australian Postal Commission is giving consideration to reducing the newly established postal charges for bulk business mail which is mailed and delivered within the same post code area, as has been suggested by the Retail Traders Association of Tasmania? Can the Minister indicate what progress has been made by the APC's current market research projects in relation to this matter? When is a decision likely to be taken in relation to the proposal? Will the Minister approve the decision if such a reduction is proposed bytheAPC? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) On how many occasions has the Prime Minister left Australia since 3 December 1972. 
What is the total number of days he has spent outside Australia since 3 December 1972. 
On how many occasions has the Prime Minister visited Tasmania since 3 December 1972. 
What is the total number of days or parts of days he has spent in Tasmania since 3 December 1972 and what were the respective dates. 
How many of those days referred to in (4) were in respect of, or related to (a) the 1973 prices referendum; (b) the 1974 double dissolution; and (c) the Bass by-election. 
I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Transport to the massive 40 per cent increase in Tasmanian freight rates which was imposed recently. I ask: When is the Nimmo report anticipated? Has the Minister received requests from Tasmania to seek an interim report? Has the Minister discussed such requests with  Mr Justice  Nimmo? Will the Minister seek as a matter of urgency an interim report? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security and the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation who is also the Minister for war against insurance companies. In the course of making his statements in his war of attrition against the rights and freedoms of insurance companies and their employees will the Minister make reference to the use or misuse of the funds of various trade unions to campaign for and provide financial support to the Australian Labor Party against the wishes of large numbers of their members? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the Prime Minister's answers to my Questions Nos 506 and 520 asked by  Senator Rae  concerning the Australian National Gallery, did the Prime Minister in his second reading speech on the National Gallery Bill 1975 say 'This provision (two statutory officers) has been introduced to avoid the problems which have arisen so often elsewhere, where unlikely and unreasonable combinations of different expertise and experience have been demanded of the one person, usually with unfortunate results'. 
Did the Prime Minister say on 16 April 1975 'I was referring to the problems which have often arisen in galleries in some other countries and in some Australian States '. 
What were 'the problems which have often arisen' in the Art Gallery of New South Wales. 
Would he now itemise the 'unfortunate results' at that Gallery. 
What where 'the problems which have often arisen' in the Queensland Art Gallery. 
Would he now itemise the 'unfortunate results' at that Gallery. 
What were 'the problems which have often arisen' in the Art Gallery of South Australia. 
Would he now itemise the 'unfortunate results' at that Gallery. 
What were 'the problems which have often arisen ' in the Tasmanian Museum and Art Gallery. 
Would he now itemise the 'unfortunate results' at that Gallery. 
What were 'the problems which have often arisen ' in the Launceston Queen Victoria Museum and Art Gallery. 
Would he now itemise the 'unfortunate results' at that Gallery. 
What were ' the problems which have often arisen' in the National Gallery of Victoria. 
Would he now itemise the 'unfortunate results' at that Gallery. 
What were ' the problems which have often arisen ' in the Western Australia Art Gallery. 
Would he now itemise the 'unfortunate results' at that Gallery. 
Did the Prime Minister say 'The general conclusion, however, is not in dispute: that gallery directors, whatever their professional art skills, have not always been skilled in matters of general management'. 
Did the Prime Minister say on 5 March 1975 Honourable Members will be aware of my longstanding interest in a National Gallery and the Hansard record of my questions over many years stand testimony to my concern . . .'. 
Will he therefore now give the Parliament the information requested by way of necessary data so that it can independently measure if 'the general conclusion . . . is not in dispute'. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the recent Estimates include an item of increased expenditure for upgrading the facilities at the Canungra Jungle Warfare Training Centre; if so, what is the projected expenditure and for which specific purposes will it be used. 
What has been the expenditure on this unit in each of the past five years. 
Did the Government recently propose the scaling down of manpower, activity and exercises for this unit; if so, what were the details of the program and when does it take effect. 
In the light of the Government's 'Fortress Australia' policy, what is the relevance of jungle warfare training. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) In answer to Senate Question No. 19, given on 8 April 1975, the Attorney-General advised that no arrangements had yet been made for an in-depth study of the basis for the making and fixing of legal costs in Australia, or any part thereof; does this situation still obtain. 
Is the study referred to in (I), or a similar exercise being undertaken by any government agency, department or non-government body for any government agency or department. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What proposals has the Government received from (a) Government bodies or organisations and (b) others for proposed new buildings at the Tropical Cattle Research Centre in Rockhampton, Queensland. 
When was each proposal received. 
What decisions has the Government made in respect of these proposals. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. I refer to an answer given to me by the Minister last Thursday in which he said:   the decisions which are taken by trade unions to affiliate with the Australian Labor Party and to contribute to the funds of the Australian Labor Party are done publicly. Everyone is well aware of them; they are done lawfully, and they are done by a ballot of the members. 
I remind the Minister that he stated categorically that the decisions to contribute union funds to the Australian Labor Party are taken publicly and by a ballot of the members and I ask: Will he, as the self-established authority on the subject, table in the Senate a list for the past 2 years of the donor unions, the amounts of the donations and the dates upon which the relevant ballots were held? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What publications have been regularly produced by (a) the Australian National Gallery; (b) the Historic Memorials Committee; (c) the Australia Council; (d) the Film and Television School; (e) the Australian Exhibit Organisation; (f) the Australian Archives; (g) the Office of the Australian War Graves; (h) the Australian War Memorial; (i) the National Library; (j) the National Advisory Committee on International Women's Year; (k) the National Advisory Council for the Handicapped; (1) the Australian Assistance Plan; and (m) other bodies responsible to the Prime Minister in the areas of the arts, cultural affairs and community development. 
What has been the purpose of each publication produced by each body referred to in ( 1 ). 
To whom and specifically what groups, organisations and individuals have these publications been sent which are regularly produced by each body referred to in ( 1 ). 
For each of the six States, what publications have been produced regularly by (a) their Minister for the Arts and Cultural Affairs; (b) their relevant State Departments; and (c) other bodies responsible to each State Minister in the areas of the arts and cultural affairs. 
What has been the purpose of each publication produced regularly in respect of (4). 
What other publications have been regularly produced by the Commonwealth Government and the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory in the areas of the arts, cultural affairs, national heritage and community development not referred to in ( 1 ). 
-The information to which reference has been made today initially by  Senator Greenwood  and by other speakers was apparently collected some 15 to 17 months ago and has been withheld since that time, or should I say that it has been held as one might hold in an armoury information which might become useful at some time to be drawn out when it suits the purpose. Why should it be held for that length of time? If it was received for lawful Government purposes presumably it would have been used, disposed of and finished with long before now. Why should it have been held back for this time and then suddenly produced when the Government is in real trouble and is finding it necessary to dredge up any little thing, including references to cricket matches and former Ministers, as a means of smearing the Opposition? Why should it be suddenly produced out of the hat that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Fraser)  had received a benefit which he could not avoid receiving if, in the normal course of the proper management of his property, he were to apply superphosphate to that property? There is no way that a user of superphosphate can avoid the bounty applying to the superphosphate which he purchases, so it is not as if any direct benefit was being obtained from the Government by any of the consumers; rather, as was explained earlier, the bounty was being made available to the manufacturer. 
Where we find that the information was obtained a long time ago, the exact circumstances in which it was obtained become perhaps a little dim in the memories of some, but I challenge the Minister for Police and Customs  (Senator Cavanagh)  to deny, after inquiry, that undertakings were given by the former Minister,  Senator Murphy,  that the information would not be made public. When people who were requested to supply the information protested against supplying it, it is not a fact that directly or indirectly the then Minister,  Senator Murphy,  gave undertakings that the information would not be made public? If the present Minister says that he is not aware of this at this stage then I ask him: Will he make inquiries and then let us know? Will he also make inquiries as to whether it is not a fact that the former Minister, his predecessor, had Customs officers stationed outside one or more of the fertiliser producing factories checking every consignment that left those factories, checking the destination and quality of each such load as it left the manufacturer? The number of man hours involved would be quite astronomical when one bears in mind the length of time which those officers took in setting up camp outside the factories to conduct this check. I ask the Minister: Will he find out just how much time- paid for by the taxpayers out of the public purse- was spent on this exercise, the only use for which that we are aware of was to smear the Leader of the Opposition? 
Following  Senator Cavanagh  's statement yesterday that this sort of information should be made public, and recalling our experience of previous times under the former Leader of the Government in this chamber, I wonder what faith people can have now that they find themselves, whether they like it or not, in all probability in a situation in which they will receive a rebate of tax. No longer will people be allowed tax deductions. They are now in a situation in which they will get a rebate of tax. On what the Minister for Police and Customs said yesterday a similar principle applies in that instance and anyone who has received a rebate of tax is subject to having the information in relation to his tax affairs made public. 
Well, we have not noticed very much observance of protection provisions by you, senator. In relation to Medibank we find that altogether there are some 900 computer data banks being used by this present Government and we find that further information in relation to Medibank is all being put on computer. One wonders how long it will be before all that information stored by this Government in that method will be used for some cheap, dirty political gibe. I believe that we have reached an all-time low in this chamber, a disappointing low, when for cheap political purposes Ministers are prepared to misuse information which had been obtained by compulsion. I thought, and I am sure a lot of other members on this side of the chamber also thought, that we had got past the stage of the misuse of power and the intimidation to which we had grown accustomed under the former Leader of the Government in this place. I thought it was a cause for some celebration when an event took place which meant he was no longer going to be in a position to hold that power. I had, and with one exception still have, the highest regard for the present Leader of the Government in this chamber. 
If you want me to tip a bucket on him I will, if we all have to descend to that. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Mulvihill)-  Initially I assessed this comment as one made in a political context, but I was a bit worried about  Senator Rae's  further comment on bucket tipping. I do not think this will have any edifying effect on the debate. In view of  Senator Rae's  brinkmanship I think he might refrain and carry on in a more temperate vein. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, I take the point. Whilst I did interject when  Senator Cavanagh  raised a point of order, all I was indicating was that if people on this side of the chamber did wish to engage in the sort of bucket tipping which has taken place and which we are now complaining about there is plenty which could be said. I do not intend to say it because I do not believe that the misuse of information, the use of intimidation and threats does anything other than to destroy the whole parliamentary system. It is with great regret that I find myself in a situation in which I must join others in complaining about the misuse by 2 Ministers in this chamber of information which ought to have been private and which as I understand it was obtained on an assurance that it would not be made public. I do not think it is edifying to have to speak about these matters. I do not think it is edifying for this chamber to be put in a position by 2 Government Ministers engaging in bucket tipping. I do not intend to respond, although as everyone knows it is always possible to smear if you wish to do so. I think we would all be better off if people were able to restrain themselves a little more and did not use or misuse information for purely political bucket tipping purposes. I certainly support the remarks made by  Senator Greenwood  and others on this side who have spoken on this matter. 
I ask the Postmaster-General whether it is a fact that Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd of Burnie recently have had to lay off considerable numbers of employees as a result of production cuts caused by overseas competition. Is it a fact that contracts were let recently by the former Postal Department for the purchase of $2m worth of paper for use in new telephone books? Is it a fact that of those contracts $1.5m relates to a Canadian multinational, MacMillan Bloedel Pty Ltd, and only $278,000 to Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd? Why could all of the paper not have been purchased in Australia, thereby preserving Australian employment opportunities? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Services and Property. Is the Minister aware that twice during recent weeks a person claiming to be an officer of the Department of Services and Property telephoned the Burnie Municipal Council offices in Tasmania and inquired, on the first occasion, as to the political affiliation of the 
Council Clerk and, on the second occasion, as to the political affiliation of the Warden of the municipality? Was the caller in fact an officer of the Department? If so, why was such a call made? Is this a further example, along with the superphosphate bounty snooping and other examples, of a Big Brother type of surveillance by the Government? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
Does the Minister's Department keep records of all voting figures in Federal elections for each polling booth in each Federal electorate. 
If the answer to (1) is in the affirmative, for which elections are figures now available, booth by booth, post World War II. 
Have election results since World War II always been counted initially at each polling place within Australia. 
Is it a fact that booth figures are not available for most post World War II elections. 
If the answer to (4) is in the affirmative, why are figures for some elections over the period not available booth by booth. 
In respect of Tasmania, what results are available, booth by booth, for House of Assembly and Legislative Council elections since World War II. 
If any results are unavailable, what are the reasons for their unavailability. 
I will not detain the Senate for very long. I simply wish to table in the Senate a form of petition which is not a form that is appropriate for presentation in the Senate. It is headed 'We the undersigned protest against the extra costs of postal and phone charges'. It bears 191 signatures. It was forwarded to me by a  Mrs V.  E. Smith of Devonport. I seek leave to table it. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
Following the Minister's answer to Senate Question No. 470 asked by  Senator Rae  on the Government's recent decision to increase airport rent charges by up to 2000 per cent, what propositions has the Minister put before the Minister for Transport. 
What are the increases that the Government decided to apply to each of the airports in Tasmania. 
From how many organisations in Tasmania has the Government received representations on this issue. 
What were the organisations. 
What was the substance of their submissions in each case. 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister received any reports from the Committee of Inquiry on Museums and National Collections as was announced in House of Representatives  'Hansard  of 10 April 1974; if so, what are the recommendations contained in those reports. 
When does the Minister expect the Committee's work to be completed. 
Does the Government intend to introduce legislation in this Budget session for (a) a national museum; (b) national collections: and (c) an Australian institute: if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Minister see the Australian Confederation of Apparel Manufacturers Newsletter, No. 23, of June 1975 in which it was reported that the Pelaco Shirt Company in Australia received a letter from Santos Merchants and Company. GPO Box 2916, Marina. Lagos, Nigeria, ordering $US30,000 of shirts on credit for payment through a Nigerian bank, the Irving Trust Company, which did not exist in Nigeria. 
Does the Minister know of any other Australian companies which have received false orders in similar circumstances: if so, with what result. 
What facilities does the Australian Government offer local companies to establish the bona fides of overseas firms. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware of a recent statement by  Mr G.  Davies, M.H.A., that 'over the last 12 months an increasing program on tourism promotion has been carried out in the north west' of Tasmania. 
What form has this increasing program taken specifically in the north west. 
When was the program for the north west announced, by whom and where. 
What specific allocations have been made for the program since 1 July, 1974, to whom, when, and for what specific purposes in respect of the north west. 
Of the allocations made, how much of each individual allocation was expended by 30 June, 1975. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Postmaster-General itemise all of the documents used by public servants to interpret the Government's guidelines when treating telephone subscribers' complaints about alleged overcharging for telephone services. 
When were each of these documents (a) printed and (b) to be applied. 
What are the guidelines mentioned in each of these documents. 
In pursuing the guidelines, what practices are used to examine and finalise the complaints. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
What are the titles of the reports, papers, or documents, produced by, or for the Government, since December 1972 on consumer standards, which have not been publicly released. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Tourism and Recreation the following question, upon notice: 
1 ) What publications have been regularly produced by (a) the Minister's Department; (b) the Australian Tourist Commission; (c) the Australian Council for National Fitness; (d) the Australian Sports Council; and (e) other bodies responsible to the Minister. 
What has been the purpose of each publication produced regularly by (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) as referred to in(1) 
To, whom and specifically, what groups and organisations and how many individuals have these publications been sent which are produced regularly by (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e ) referred to in ( 1 ). 
For each of the six States, what publications have been produced regularly by (a) its Minister for Tourism and Department of Tourism and the bodies responsible to each State Minister for Tourism and (b) its Minister for Recreation and Department of Recreation, or its appropriate equivalent, and the bodies responsible to each State Minister for Recreation. 
What is the answer to (4) in the context of (a) the Australian Capital Territory; (b) the Northern Territory; and (c) other territories. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
1 ) In view of public allegations about telephone overcharging, in particular the  Sun Herald  report of 10 August 1975, when was subscriber trunk dialling first introduced in Australia. 
How many telephone subscribers from each State and Territory have complained to the Postmaster-General's Department or its successor, or Ministers responsible, alleging overcharging for their telephone services, in each of the years since subscriber trunk dialling was introduced. 
In how many of those complaints has re-examination produced evidence which has accepted that the subscriber's complaint was to some extent justified and indicated the first assessment was wrong. 
What is the percentage rate of customer satisfaction in respect of complaints. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate who represents the Minister for Manufacturing Industry in the absence of  Senator James  McClelland. I refer to reports of a report given by the textiles authority to the Government about quotas to apply from next February on the importation of textiles. In order to help restore confidence in that industry will the Minister seek to have the Minister for Manufacturing Industry give an early definitive statement on whether the recommendations will be implemented in relation to all affected textiles and the carpet making industry, or are we to go back to chaos in that industry again? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1) In view ofthe Government's proposal to abandon the Cadet Movement hitherto attached to the Australian Army; if so, when, and by whom, was that decision made. 
What percentage rate of transition of cadets into the Army has occurred for each ofthe last 20 years. 
What savings have been computed in relation to the cost of training cadets as against recruiting servicemen directly into the Army. 
What impact is the decision expected to have on future manpower requirements ofthe Army. 
5 ) What costing have Defence authorities provided to the Government specifying additional training costs which the Army will with this decision have to bear over the next 20 years. 
How does the decision endorse the Australian Labor Party's 1974 commitment in which ' . . . Australia shall have the defence forces she needs- finely equipped, highly professional, highly mobile and highly respected '. 
My question is directed to the Special Minister of State, or alternatively to the Minister for Police and Customs, whoever prefers to answer it. I refer to the statement by the Special Minister of State last Tuesday to the Estimates Committee that he and the Minister for Police and Customs had been discussing taking action to prohibit the export from Australia of all or part of the Craig collection of Tasmanian: which is for auction in about a fortnight's time in Launceston. I now ask whichever Minister chooses to answer: Has any further step been taken to determine whether any such orders will be issued? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Media, upon notice: 
1 ) What were the reasons that commercial radio and television stations were able to provide detailed information to the previous Minister as to election broadcasting while the Australian Broadcasting Commission could only provide simple aggregate times in answer to a Question of  Mr F.  Reynolds, M.P., on 2 1 April 1 975. 
Will the Minister provide a detailed answer beyond the information given in the preamble to the previous Minister's answer to  Mr Reynolds. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) Have any non-Australian persons who have sought to enter Australia, been presented with a Government form containing the following declaration for their signature: '1 solemnly declare that if admitted to Australia, for permanent residence I will not engage in political activity of any kind and I will not permit my name to be lent or associated with any such prohibited activity'; if so, to which persons has this document been presented. 
In relation to each such person (a) where was it presented to them; (b) when was it presented; (c) who authorised the publication of such a document; (d) when was it authorised; and (e) when did this document first come to the Minister's attention. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Was the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics' Ambassador to Australia accurately reported as saying in August 1975 that the Soviet Union did not have any significant naval presence in the Indian Ocean. 
Does surveillance by Australia and her allies indicate that a Soviet naval presence in the Indian Ocean does and has existed over the last decade. 
According to Australian defence authorities, what number of Soviet ships known to be carrying out naval work have been present in the Indian Ocean in each of the last ten years. 
According to American defence and other authorities, what number of Soviet ships known to be carrying out naval work have been present in the Indian Ocean in each of the last ten years. 
Do all of the Governments of nations surrounding the Indian Ocean regard the Soviet naval presence as 'not significant'; if not, which nations have held this view. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
Has a senior Australian Broadcasting Commission officer,  Dr C.  Semmler, been attempting to establish, through the Australia Council Literary Board, an arts journal: if so, what is the purpose of the journal. 
What cost estimates are available. 
Is the journal to scrutinise the work of the Australia Council. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Further to Question No. 703 asked by  Senator Rae  concerning the proposed Beef Cattle Research Laboratory at Rockhampton, Queensland, is the Minister suggesting that the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation is the only body which has made submissions to the Commonwealth Government on this proposal; if not. which other organisations have made submissions. 
2 ) When were they made. 
Is the Minister suggesting that the first occasion on which a Commonwealth Government received any submission on a proposed new laboratory was October 1974. 
When was the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation's first proposal for a new laboratory prepared. 
5 ) What costing was attached to that proposal. 
When and what estimates have separately been made since then. 
Did the Minister say in answer to Question No. 703 that the matter '. is still under consideration . . .'. 
8 ) Has Cabinet ever considered the proposal; if so, when. 
How long have facilities at Rockhampton been (a) inadequate, (b) sub-standard, and (c) unsafe. 
10) If funds were available what would delay an immediate commencement on construction. 
When is construction expected to begin. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What are the titles of the reports, papers or documents produced by or for the Government since December 1972 in the areas of the Prime Minister's responsibility which have not been publicly released. 
I ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration: Will the Minister inform the Senate what is to happen to each of the RED scheme projects in Tasmania? I ask this bearing in mind that there are numerous projects which are in various stages of completion and where obligations have been undertaken by those organising them but which are, as a result of the Government's action, in a state of suspended animation to the inconvenience and even distress of all concerned? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
Does the Minister recall Senate Question No. 563 asked by  Senator Rae  which said: In view of the Minister's remarks about the circumstances surrounding the election of the Olympic gold medallist, Miss M. Wylie of Sydney to the International Hall of Fame, what are the names of individual sportsmen and sportswomen who have received direct Government assistance since December 1972. 
Is the Minister suggesting by his answer that there are no sportsmen and sportswomen who have left Australia to participate in events overseas with Government aid since December 1972. 
Which sportsmen and sportswomen have left Australia to participate in events overseas and have had financial help from the Government to enable them to do so. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade the following question, upon notice: 
What are the titles of the reports, papers or documents produced by or for the Government since December 1972 in the areas of the Minister's responsibility which have not been publicly released. 
asked the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
What are the titles of the reports, papers or documents produced by or for the Government since December 1972 in the areas of the Minister's responsibility which have not been publicly released. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) How many individual computer network systems does the Government now have between two or more capital, or other Australian cities, or centres. 
What is the nature and purpose of the information stored in each computer network system. 
By which Department is each computer network system funded and maintained. 
What guarantees do citizens have that the information concerning their personal lives and stored in these systems is accurate. 
What avenues are available to citizens to contest the accuracy of the information stored when they believe such information to be inaccurate. 
When, and in what circumstances, can citizens examine the information kept. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Tourism and Recreation. Does the Minister agree with the facts and assertions contained in yesterday's report of International Air Travel Association which was published in Sweden indicating that Australia's international air fares are far from the highest in the world and are in fact comparable with north Atlantic fares and only half of those applying in Europe? If so, does this provide some ray of hope for our beleagured tourist and travel industry? I further add that if the Minister, as may well be the case, is not in a position to answer that question, will he obtain an answer from his colleague,  Mr Stewart,  the Minister for Tourism and Recreation. 
asked the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
Did the Minister state in the Senate on 28 August 1975'. . . the decisions which are taken by trade unions to affiliate with the Australian Labor Party and to contribute to the funds of the Australian Labor Party are done publicly. Everyone is well aware of them; they are done lawfully, and they are done by a ballot of the members. ' 
Will the Minister provide a list covering the past 2 years specifying (a) the names of the trade unions who have made monetary or other donations to the Australian Labor Party; (b) the amount of the donation in each case; (c) the date each donation was made; (d) the date on which each ballot was held preceding the donation; and (e) the result of each ballot. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Prime Minister seen the document 'Information about the Australia Council' of August 197S which says: The Visual Arts Board has recommended to the Australian Government that an investment of a 1 per cent arts component be included in building projects, to enhance the appreciation of an in public places, as well as benefiting Australian artists financially'. 
What arguments have been advanced for striking the rate at 1 per cent. 
What decisions have been made for the implementation of the recommendations. 
When will the proposal be implemented. 
What (a) specific buildings and (b) groupings of buildings are envisaged for incorporation in the proposal. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What are the titles of the reports, papers or documents . produced by or for the Government since December 1972 in the areas of the Postmaster-General 's responsibility which have not been publicly released. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and by way of preface I refer to the fact that in answer to a question this morning a Minister said that the Treasurer is the person responsible for negotiation of overseas loans and that his, the Treasurer's, opinions are the relevant ones. In view of that and of the statement made yesterday by  Dr Cairns,  who was Treasurer at the relevant time, that as early as January this year he had informed Cabinet that  Mr Khemlani  was not a reliable person, will the leader of the Government help us out of our confusion and tell us whether we should believe  Dr Cairns  or  Senator 
James McClelland who this morning was reasserting his faith in  Mr Khemlani  's reliability? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What are the titles of the reports, papers or documents produced by or for the Government since December 1972 in the areas of the Minister's responsibility which have not been publicly released. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Prime Minister say in answer to Question No. 768 asked by  Senator Rae  on Government funded publications in the Ans and associated areas published in the States and Territories, in addition to the Commonwealth, that 'This information is not held in my Department'. 
Is the Prime Minister suggesting that there has been a complete and absolute breakdown in communications between him and the various State Ministers for the Arts and Cultural Affairs. 
Has the Prime Minister, or his Department, received any, and if so, what publications in these areas since 3 December 1972; if not, will he advise what publications the Government has received from the States. 
When did the Prime Minister, or the Government, abandon his pledge of 13 November 1972'. . . to widen access to, and the understanding and application of, the arts in the community generally', in respect of his Department's access to information on the creative and performing arts. 
asked the Minister for Police and Customs, upon notice: 
What are the titles of the reports, papers or documents produced by or for the Government since December 1972 in the areas of the Minister's responsibility which have not been publicly released. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
What are the titles of the reports, papers or documents produced by or for the Government since December 1972 in the areas of the Minister's responsibility which have not been publicly released. 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the titles of the reports, papers or documents produced by or for the Government since December 1972, in the areas of the Minister's responsibility which have not been publicly released. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration and Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in matters relating to the Public Service, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the Minister's answer to Question No. 56 1 asked by  Senator Rae  concerning the Government's program for decentralising Australian Public Servants away from Canberra, that there is 'no formal identification of growth centres' proposed for Tasmania, what content does the ' range of urban development programs ' have specifically for the decentralisation of public servants away from Canberra to Tasmania. 
Excluding the proposed Australian Maritime College for Launceston, which was planned by the last LiberalCountry Party Government, are there no other specific plans to include Tasmania in the program to decentralise public servants away from Canberra. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) What date is construction expected to begin on the National College of Navigation and Communication in Launceston. 
On what date is construction expected to be completed. 
On what date will students be able to enrol. 
What local professional services (for example, contractors and architects) and what local materials has the Government included or proposed to include in its planning and construction of the College. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. If the Government has done nothing illegal or improper in relation to the overseas loans matter, why is it that all the Ministers involved in the Executive Council meeting of 1 3 December last have now been removed from the Ministry with the exception of one only, the surviving Prime Minister? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
What are the titles of the reports, papers or documents produced by or for the Government since December 1 972 in the areas of the Minister's responsibility which have not been publicly released. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
What are the titles of the reports, papers or documents produced by or for the Government since December 1972 in the areas of the Minister's responsibility which have not been publicly released. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) How many individual offices for community information and help like taxation, legal aid,  et cetera  has the Government established since December 1972 in (a) Launceston, (b) Hobart, and (c) other places in Tasmania. 
What were the initial costs of establishing each office. 
What are the annual running costs of maintaining such offices. 
What prevented the Government from housing these offices together in one building in each centre. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What are the titles of the reports, papers or documents produced by or for the Government since December 1972 in the areas of the Minister's responsibility which have not been publicly released. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did the Labor Government's authority on 'Open Government' (the publication Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia by J. J. Spigelman) say: 'There should be a parliamentary committee with the power to call for the production of any document, to assess independently whether a government classification of that document is justified, and if necessary to order its classification '. 
Did the book say: 'The Opposition should appoint the majority of members on such a Committee'. 
Did the Prime Minister say in 1974: 'I am, of course, aware of the book . . . and I did most of the research for the book'. 
In view of his joint authorship of the book or at the very least, his major research role, has the Prime Minister taken any steps to see that such a committee is established; if not, when does the Prime Minister intend to do so. 
5 ) Does the Prime Minister still intend, as he did when he worked in a research capacity for  Mr Spigelman  in the preparation of the book, that there should be a majority of Opposition members on such a committee; if not, why not. 
My question which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate refers to a series of questions which I placed on the notice paper to each Minister, including the Leader of the Government in the Senate, requesting the titles of all papers, reports and documents produced by or for the Government since 1972 which have not been publicly released. Why has the Prime Minister instructed all his Ministers not to answer that question? Was the Prime Minister's statement of refusal to answer my question on 2 October 1975 the official end of open government? Does the Leader of the Government in the Senate see a danger in not answering the question as being a threat to our parliamentary system of representative government? Does he agree that such secrecy totally contravenes the spirit of open government and that it could well lead to a situation similar to the one which led to the departure of  Dr Cairns  and  Mr Connor  from the Ministry? I conclude by drawing the attention of the Leader of the Government in the Senate to the fact that he, on behalf of the Prime Minister, gave me an answer to this question on 2 October. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What are the titles of the reports, papers or documents produced by or for the Government since December 1972 in the areas of the Minister's responsibility which have not been publicly released. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
What are the titles of the reports, papers  or  documents produced by or for the Government since December 1972 in the areas of the Minister's responsibility which have not been publicly released. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, upon notice: 
What are the titles of the reports, papers or documents produced by or for the Government since December 1972 in the areas of the Minister's responsibility which have not been publicly released. 
asked the Minister representing  the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the actual annual cost, over the last 10 years, of the Australian Broadcasting Commission's London and New York offices. 
Could the Minister provide a detailed break-down of the figures. 

 - Mr President, I seek leave to make a very brief statement in relation to the presentation of reports by Ministers. I seek leave to make a statement with a request as to the procedure to be adopted. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What are the titles of the reports, papers or documents produced by or for the Government since December 1972 in the areas of the Treasurer's responsibility which have not been publicly released. 
asked the Minister for Agriculture, upon notice: 
What are the titles of the reports, papers or documents produced by or for the Government since December 1972 in the areas of the Minister's responsibility which have not been publicly released. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Northern Australia, upon notice: 
What are the titles of the reports, papers or documents produced by or for the Government since December 1972 in the areas of the Minister's responsibility which have not been publicly released. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What are the titles of the reports, papers or documents produced by or for the Government since December 1972 in the areas of the Minister's responsibility which have not been publicly released. 
-Having heard what  Senator Cavanagh  had to say and having listened to other speakers, I feel it would be appropriate for me to mention that I have received the letter which  Senator Everett  has incorporated in  Hansard.  It was addressed to my Launceston office, notwithstanding the fact that the Parliament is sitting this week. Any reasonably intelligent Premier, expecting the slowness of the mails with which we have become familiar to prevail, might have had the foresight to send a copy to Canberra so that honourable senators; in the urgency of the crisis to which the Premier refers, may be informed as expeditiously as possible. I received the letter. I hope that it was addressed to all 10 Tasmanian senators and npt just to 5 of them. I think the final paragraph is the relevant paragraph. It states: 
In conclusion, I can only say I hope that the constitutional crisis in Canberra will not be allowed to become the threat it could pose to the stability of State government. 
Australia knows, and we here know, who is creating the constitutional crisis in Canberra. I hope that the letter has been addressed to all members of the Australian Labor Party from Tasmania as well as to those who are members of the Liberal Party. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What are the titles of the reports, papers or documents produced by or for the Government since December 1972 in the areas of the Minister's responsibility which have not been publicly released. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) How many of each partnerships and private and public corporations were there registered in Australia for each of the years 1945- 1946 to 1974-1975. 
What is the breakdown of these figures State by State. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons of Australian birth who applied for an Australian passport since the present Government took office have not been granted one. 
How many of those so denied have been given full, complete and accurate reasons for the rejection of their application. 
How many Australian citizens have had their passports withdrawn during the same period. 
How many of those persons referred to in (3) have been given full, complete and accurate reasons for the withdrawals. 
How many persons have applied for naturalisation and have been refused in the same period. 
How many of those persons referred to in (5) have been given full, complete and accurate reasons for the refusals. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
What are the titles of the reports, papers or documents produced by or for the Government since December 1972 in the areas of the Minister's responsibility which have not been publicly released. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. It is further to the question asked by  Senator Sim,  which he was unable to answer, in relation to whether  Mr Whitlam  was telling the truth. I ask: Is it not a fact that  Senator Wriedt  was present at a meeting which issued a statement from Kirribilli House at the weekend? Is it not a fact that that statement said that the committee there did not concede the Senate's right to reject money Bills and noted that no Senate had ever done so. Is it not a fact that on 18 June 1970 there was a series of divisions in this chamber on the States Receipts Duties (Administration) Bill? I further ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Is the  Hansard  of 18 June 1970 incorrect in showing at pages 2681 and 2682 that  Senator Wriedt  himself joined with other members of the Australian Labor Party and the Australian Democratic Labor Party to defeat the second reading of that major taxation measure? Is the Prime Minister clearly not telling the truth? 
-Mr Temporary  Chairman,  I should like briefly to indicate that so far as Tasmanian shipping is concerned there are the aspects of the union based stoppages which create uncertainty, irregularity, delays and added costs. They are aspects which have not been overcome completely by the agreement to which  Senator Poyser  has referred. Whilst I as a Tasmanian am grateful- I am sure that other Tasmanians are grateful- for the fact that some step has been taken to exempt some Tasmanian shipping on some occasions, there have been numerous occasions when stoppages as well as actual strikes have applied to some of the ships servicing Tasmania. In fact, the many stoppages which delay and throw out of gear the schedules under which Australian National Line ships operate, and therefore cause ships to be sent back and forth across Bass Strait after having been only partly unloaded or only partly loaded, are creating havoc in the Tasmanian economy. It is not something which any responsible government could stand by and see happen without proposing and experimenting with whatever action can be taken which may overcome the problem. 
There is the added cost as a result of the union aspects. There is the added cost as a result of the inflationary increases which have taken place in recent times. It is with all this in mind that the Liberal Party has proposed a policy to which I wish briefly to refer because I think it is relevant to the consideration in which we are involved at the moment. The major part of that policy is the recognition of Bass Strait as part of the national highway. The national highway concept applies throughout the remainder of Australia. There is no reason why it should not apply across Bass Strait, linking Tasmania and Victoria. Once one applies the national highway concept to Bass Strait shipping, there will be available to Tasmania immeasurable advantages which will put Tasmania on a more equal basis with the other States. I certainly support  Senator Wright's  intention in bringing the need for the taking of action in this situation to the notice of the Committee. I believe that it is a matter which should be constantly brought to the notice of the Senate and of the government of the day until appropriate action is taken in the interests of Tasmania. 
I take the opportunity to urge that the most appropriate thing that can be done at the moment is for the Nimmo report to be expedited in every possible way and for appropriate action to be taken on that report as a matter of urgency as soon as the report is available. I believe that with the implementation of the product of the Nimmo inquiry, which has now been under way since April last year, and with the application of the national highway concept to the shipping lifeblood across Bass Strait, Tasmania will be able to look forward to overcoming at least one part of the problems. Unless  Mr Nimmo  has some suggestions of which we are not aware at the moment, this will not overcome the disastrous effects which union stoppages and strikes are having on Tasmania. Other steps are necessary. I have heard nothing from the Government- I would be interested now to hear from the Government- about the steps that it proposes to take to overcome this major problem. If the 
Government does not like  Senator Wright's  amendment, what is its alternative? 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Minister list all the projects in Tasmania approved to receive Commonwealth financial assistance under the Regional Employment Development Scheme since it was introduced. 
What was the purpose of each project. 
At the time of approval, what was the estimated completion date for each project. 
What is the estimated completion date for each project now. 
What was the total cost of each project or, for those incomplete, the estimated total cost. 
Of the total cost of each project, how much was being funded by the Commonwealth. 
Of the balance for each project, which bodies were funding the remainder of the cost. 
What projects originally approved have been suspended since commencement because of a Commonwealth Government decision not to make the funds available, and at what stage of completion is each such project. 
When was each body supervising such projects advised of the Commonwealth's intention not to proceed with funding as originally approved. 
What was the reason for the Commonwealth suspending the finance for each such project. 
Has the Commonwealth made any decision to resume making funds available for each or any such project, and if so, which ones. 
In respect of those projects which the Commonwealth has not made any decision to resume making funds available, why has it not. 
For which projects have Commonwealth funds been granted and subsequent notifications issued saying that those funds were not to be spent and were to be returned to the Commonwealth because ofthe Commonwealth's decision not to fulfil the original funding commitments. 
For which projects where Commonwealth funds were first made available or guaranteed, and then withdrawn or suspended, have goods and services been provided by companies, organisations and individuals. 
What were those goods and services. 
16) What was the value of those goods and services. 
What companies, organisations or individuals are still awaiting payment and cannot be paid for those goods and services rendered because of the Commonwealth Government's termination of finance. 
What compensatory or other arrangements have been made by the Commonwealth Government to ensure all existing contracts are met. 
To fulfil the Government's program of 'open Government', will the minister answer by 14 October 1975 this question, which is placed on the Notice Paper on 30 September 1975, so that those dependent on employment in the projects will know where they stand in terms of the security of their jobs and so that those companies, organisations and individuals which have provided goods and services for the projects will know when and if they can expect payment so that they will not be placed in any further unnecessary hardship or forced out of business. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Minister for Science say on 1 1 February 1 975 that 'Australia is recognised as a world leader in solar energy research'. 
What international documentary evidence is there to support that view. 
What major advances have been made by Australian solar energy researchers over the last 1 5 years. 
Will the Minister list all the financial allocations which have been made to solar energy research by (a) governments and (b) other bodies in Australia for each of the last 15 financial years. 
For what specific purposes have such allocations been devoted for the same period. 
To what extent have such allocations been expended. 
What tangible results have Australian consumers experienced by way of new appliances or uses of solar power over the last 1 5 years. 
What number of (a) homes, (b) factories and (c) other recipients have utilised solar power for each of the last 1 5 years. 
What is the percentage of each group utilising all forms of energy. 
Where it is measurable, what is the cost differential between the use of solar power and other forms of energy. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) ls the Prime Minister aware of alleged threats on the life of Aboriginal boxer Tony Mundine 
Has the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation or any other Australian security group made any investigations of the threats. 
Are there reasons to believe that the threats are genuine. 
If the answer to (3) is in the affirmative, what action is the Government taking against the organisation of terrorists concerned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister seen the statement of September 1975 by M. Pickering of Scullin concerning the construction of a permanent railway between Darwin and Alice Springs. 
Since taking office, how many submissions has the Government received for the construction of this railway. 
When and from whom were they received. 
When has Cabinet considered this matter. 
What decisions, if any, have been reached. 
) What financing projections, if any, have been made. 
Has the Government any timetable for the proposed construction: if so, what is it. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the latest (1975) Parliamentary Handbook in hardback form has a retail price of $2 1 .95 and contains 909 pages. 
Is it a fact that the 1973 Australian Yearbook in hardback form has a retail price of $5.00 and contains 1111 pages. 
ls it a fact that the Australian Bureau of Statistics will release in November the 1975 edition of the Australian Yearbook of approximately 1000 pages with retail price of $7.00 for the softback form and $10.00 for the hardback form. 
If the answer to questions 1,2 and 3 is yes, why is there to be a price differential of $ 1 1 .75 ($ 10 as against $2 1 .75 ) for two Government publications essentially the same size. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration and Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Matters Relating to the Public Service, upon notice: 
1 ) What specific areas of public employment in the Federal sphere are subject to the use of flex time. 
How many employees are covered by the flex time arrangements in each sector of ( 1 ). 
Have any segments of the Australian Public Service declined to adopt flex time; if so, which ones. 
Is there any available data on the use of flex time in public employment, other than in the Federal sphere; if so, what usage of flex time does it reveal. 
Is there any available data on the use of flex time in private employment; if so, what usage of flex time does it reveal. 
I believe we are in the midst of a battle which is reminiscent of the great battles of the 17th century in England. It is the question of the supremacy of Parliament against Executive power. It is the question of the ultimate responsibility of that Parliament to the people. They are the simple questions or the very complex questions, depending upon the view which is adopted by those who approach these questions. Under our Constitution, Parliament is made up of the Queen- in Australia, her Governor-General- the Senate and the House of Representatives. Parliament is not the plaything of the Prime Minister of the day. No Prime Minister, no government, is supreme over the Parliament or any one of its constituent parts. He does not have the authority to dictate to the Senate. He does not have the authority to dictate to the Governor-General. The Senate is one of the parts and has a clear and independent role to play. 
Unlike most other upper Houses, the Senate is a people's House, fully elected. The Constitution was drafted to provide a balancing of power. The Senate has powers to provide that balance if and when it decides to exercise them. At all times it is answerable to the people for its actions. Unlike the Senate in Canada, which is nominated for life, unlike the House of Lords in the United Kingdom, the Senate in Australia is answerable to the people of Australia. The Constitution was drafted to make it so. The Constitution was drafted to give the Senate equal powers, with one small exception, to those of the House of Representatives. The Senate has a power to reject money Bills; it has a power to reject Appropriation Bills. It has decided to exercise that power, and not all of the huffing and puffing of a dictatorial Prime Minister nor of a beleaguered government can prevent the democratic process from proceeding. 
During the great National Australasian Convention Debates of the 1 890s when the Constitution was so laboriously but splendidly drafted and agreed upon, great attention was given to the question of the Senate's powers in relation to money Bills and the possibilities and the consequences of deadlocks. At the 1897 Adelaide Convention  Mr Higgins  made what I think is an extremely pertinent comment, which I wish to quote. He was one of the founding fathers who showed what one realises when one re-reads the convention debates was perhaps typical perception about what might happen. He said: 
The Premier of New South Wales has shown that the system of giving suggestion involves this: that the Senate will, and indeed should, consider the full details of Money Bills, that it is their duty to go into them because they have the power of giving suggestions, and that being so, and if these suggestions are not acceded to, there is a great danger of a deadlock arising, a danger which never arose before. It is quite untrue, as  Mr Barton  says, that deadlocks in the past have arisen on questions of tacking and so forth, and that we have to deal now with a totally different set of relations, but we have to deal now with the position in which the Senate are invited to give suggestions, and that if these suggestions are ignored there will bc a great temptation to the exercise of the full power of veto, and, although history shows that deadlocks have arisen from those other causes, still we are now introducing new causes- causes which are almost certain to be fertile in deadlocks unless we take great care. The Premier of New South Wales stated most explicitly that he would not consent to this Constitution unless the will of the people were eventually to rule; and unless some machinery be provided which will let the will of the people eventually rule there is no prospect of the Constitution being accepted by the people of Australia as a whole. 
Those words indicate the view of those at the Conventions. They indicate the views which were accepted as the very basis upon which the Constitution was prepared and the powers given to the Senate. Those views were, as I indicated before, that ultimately both Houses are responsible to the people and that the Executive has not got absolute power over either House and certainly not over the Senate. The Executive is answerable to the Parliament and the Parliament to the people. 
The Senate has now decided by a majority that a great question of public policy has arisen, that a great and unusual situation has arisen in Australia. Other speakers have referred to the circumstances of a government convicted now of deception and deceit; of a government broken in its economic policies; of a government plunging Australia into economic disaster; of a government providing for the people of Australia unemployment reaching hitherto unknown heights, with numbers going up from around 100 000 at the time the Government came into office just short of 3 years ago to over 300 000 now, numbers that are predicted by the Government itself to rise past 400 000 within a few months. There are many other circumstances to which reference has been made by other speakers. I sum up those circumstances simply by saying that in the minds of a majority of the members of this chamber they constitute a great question of public policy, a great and unusual situation requiring the judgment of the people as to whether they want the Government to continue or whether they wish to change it. The Opposition in this chamber has decided that it should exercise its constitutionally given power to send Parliament back to the people for judgment. 
I do not think that there can be any longer any doubt as to the power of the Senate in relation to Supply. But because there has been some confusionI believe created deliberately to mislead the Australian public- I want to refer to the very first Supply Bill which was introduced into this Parliament and to the debate which took place at that time. The debate settled clearly the question of the Senate's role in relation to Supply. On 13 June 1901 the matter was raised when the Supply Bill was first introduced, and  Senator Neild  stated at page 1023: 
I hope that the Senate will not entertain the motion. This is the most deliberate attempt that could possibly be made to belittle the Senate and treat it as occupying the position of the second Chambers of the different States. We are apparently to be treated by the Ministry in the matter of the public expenditure simply as a Chamber of revision. 
He expressed his concern about the mode which had been adopted. I quote further from what  Senator Gould  had to say at page 1025: 
Would that not be an absurd position, when we have powers given to us by way of suggestion? Having such powers, it becomes our duty to exercise them whenever we find it necessary to do so; otherwise we are false to our trust and false to our duty. I say that, in the present position of affairs, this is a direct insult, a flout to this Chamber. 
It is also interesting to see what  Senator Sir Josiah  Symon said, and I read from page 1030: 
I suggest, not merely as a matter affecting the privileges of the Senate at all, but as one affecting a new system of parliamentary government, under the Constitution of the Commonwealth, that the position had better be reconsidered, because this will be a precedent that will govern us as long as we last as a Parliament. After all, I think, time will be saved and difficulty will be avoided if that course is now adopted. 
The course was to send the Bill back to the House of Representatives for amendment. Strangely, it was one  Senator Fraser  in the first Parliament in the first Senate dealing with the first Supply Bill who moved the motion, which was an amendment to have the effect of sending the Bill back to the House of Representatives to be properly and appropriately drawn so that the Senate could consider it fully. That  Senator Fraser  was the first of that longstanding name to deal with the proprieties of Supply Bills. In fact, he was the grandfather of the present Leader of the Opposition, so I understand. The situation then was that the Senate asserted its right and its duty to peruse, to scrutinise, to make suggestions in relation to Supply Bills and, if necessary, to reject them. 
The definition of a money Bill is something which is perhaps relevant for consideration in the light of the confused way in which it has been used by certain people, principally the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  I refer to a work which is often quoted with authority and approval in this chamber,  Australian Senate Practice,  by the Senate  Clerk, Mr Odgers.  At page 312 of the fourth edition he states: 
A money Bill in the Australian Parliament clearly means a proposed law which appropriates revenue or moneys, or imposes taxation, and which shall not originate in the Senate. 
I will not read that in any greater detail, but I refer those honourable senators who may still be confused on this matter to that page. I think that they will be satisfied that the Bills to which I am going to refer in a moment do come within that definition. The Prime Minister has seen fit to make statements, including one dated 19 October 1975, which is on his Press statement letterhead. It refers to a meeting at Kirribilli House of the Commonwealth Labor Advisory Committee, which comprises the four federal parliamentary leaders and certain other people. The statement refers also to what they said. I mention specifically that all 4 parliamentary leaders were there- the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam), Mr Crean, Senator Wriedt  and  Senator Willesee.  The statement put out by the Prime Minister on the committee 's behalf read: 
The Committee called on Opposition senators to cease obstruction and to exercise their constitutional responsibility to pass the Budget. While not conceding the right of the Senate to reject Money Bills and while noting that no Senate has ever done so the Committee . . . 
That is an untrue statement. That is not a statement of fact. The Government may not concede the right of the Senate to reject money Bills but it has, in the past, asserted that right. It has asserted it with success. So, if the Government wishes to make a statement it should have said: Whilst we have changed our mind for current personal, political, reasons from the stance which we adopted heretofor we do not now concede the right of the Senate to reject money Bills. Whilst noting that the Senate has in the past rejected money Bills on a number of occasions and whilst we have in the past as a party asserted the Senate's right to reject money Bills, we do not believe it should be done now'. That is the way that that statement could have been made if the Government wished to state the truth and express such views. 
Instead of that, the Government chose deliberately to confuse and mislead the Australian public. It is a deliberate untruth. It is a pretext to wage war on the Senate.  Mr Whitlam  has always hated the Senate and he has made it clear that he would like either to abolish the Senate or to curtail its powers. He is now misrepresenting our Constitution and with the aid of some people, who may or may not have an adequate academic status to express a view, is attempting to mislead Australians and to create fear and confusion.  Senator Hall,  who is no longer in the chamber, I think put his finger on the point when, during his speech, he said that the fear of loss of income and of loss of Government payments is what is concerning people in Australia at the moment. He put his finger on it. Not much else of what he said was accurate but' that at least was. We should look at- I think all Australians should look at- who created that fear. Who is whipping up this fear every day that this Parliament sits? Who raises it every day at question time? In every speech that is made by a member of the Government, in every public statement that has been made lately, there is reference to the dire crisis, the monetary crisis. It is a crisis that can end today, this afternoon or even within an hour. It can end the moment the Government says: 'We will do what the Constitution requires us to do in a deadlock situation. We will go to the people'. If honourable senators on the other side of the chamber are serious in not wishing to see fear and confusion reign supreme in this country they will do that which is honourable and that which is required according to constitutional practice. They will resign. They will not pursue this deliberate policy of creating fear within the community so that they can create a climate for the conservation - 

 - Mr Deputy President, I would like to address you without having to shout over the top of some nitwitted character whose name I do not even recall at the moment because his contributions in this chamber have always been so insignificant. He has never made a sufficient mark for anybody to have cause to recall his name. The Government would take the course I have suggested unless it was deliberately setting out to create a situation in which the Prime Minister and his supporters could take advantage of that fear to smash the Senate's power. The headlines in the Press the other day carried a report of what the Prime Minister had to say. The headlines stated: 
PM- I will smash the Senate's power. 
Smashing the power of the Senate- that is what it is all about. It is part of a deliberate campaign by the Prime Minister to mislead the Australian public and lead the people into a situation in which the Prime Minister could put before them a referendum to curtail the powers of this chamber so that he can rule absolutely without challenge and without anyone being able to prevent him from being able to carry out the schemes which have already cost Australia so dearly. 
He is determined, as  Senator Wood  says, to obtain and retain absolute power. The real constitutional crisis arises from the Prime Minister's determination to follow the lead of  Mrs Ghandi  in India- a country which had a Constitution to protect it from absolute power. Its Constitution was not at all dissimilar from Australia's. That constitution has now, by the act of someone who can only be classified as a dictator, been torn up and thrown out. Is that what the people want for Australia? If they do not, they will join with us in demanding that this Prime Minister cease his arrogant defiance of the parliamentary process and go to the people for their judgment. If the people do not agree with us and with the stand that we have taken, then we, the Opposition, will pay the penalty. 
How true were the words of Lord Acton when one thinks of this Prime Minister. Lord Acton said that "all power corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely". When one thinks of the corrupt record of this Government in recent times, one is reminded that many a statement which has gone down into the political science books, the philosophy books and the law books in the English speaking world has an existence which does not change but which is everlastingly potentially present. That is what has happened here. That is the threat to the Australian democracy. It is not only a threat to the Australian democracy as we know it, it is a threat to the federal situation as we know it. It is a threat to our federal compact. The Senate, with its full role in relation to money matters, was given those powers to be able to protect the States as one of its principal functions. Without that power, it would not be possible for the smaller States to be protected against the use or abuse of power in the interests of the larger States in Australia or of one particular State against some of the others. 
The threatened curtailment of the Senate powers is a direct attack upon the States. It is a direct attack upon federalism. It is a direct move towards centralism. The Government is using this occasion to further its attempt- already made on a number of occasions through referendums and through legislation which it has tried to put through this chamber and which this chamber has resisted on behalf of the States and on behalf of the federal principle- to destroy Australian federalism. The Government has the hide to do it in the name of preserving democracy. That is the most shallow claim that I think could be made. When one looks at some of the shallow bases of support for the claim, one can see the ultimate cynicism which is behind it. 
Let me deal for a moment with the incredible statement made by the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby).  He said: 
The Senate's power to reject a money Bill has atrophied and become a dead letter. 
Let me tell honourable senators, some of whom may have forgotten but many of whom will know, that in the period from 1950 to 1970 individual senators who were members of the Australian Labor Party recorded approximately 6000 votes in the assertion of the power of the Senate to reject or to take equivalent action by deferral or other similar action on a money Bill as defined by  Mr Odgers  and as accepted by this Parliament. This information is taken from a list given to the Senate by a former leader of the Labor Opposition,  Senator Murphy.  It appears in  Hansard  at page 2651. It is preposterous for the current Attorney-General in 1975 to assert seriously that the power has atrophied and become a dead letter when members of his Party, in a 20-year period between 1950 and 1970, individually on 6000 occasions asserted that right. It is more than preposterous. It shows either his extreme ignorance or his unpreparedness to stick to the truth. 

 - Senator Chaney suggests that it is both. I do not pause to debate the matter with him. I also refer to the number of occasions on which such motions were successful. There was the 1 967 Post and Telegraph Rates Bill, the 1 968 Aerodromes (Passenger Charges) Bill and the 1970 States Receipts Duty Bill. All three of these were important money Bills and were important aspects of a Government's budgetary program. All of them were successfully rejected by the then Labor Party Opposition in this chamber. Yet the Prime Minister stated in that statement from which I have already quoted, supported by  Senator Wriedt, Senator Willesee  and others, that they noted that the Senate had never rejected a money Bill. That is the ultimate proof of the dishonesty of this Government. It cannot tell the truth for a moment. We have found that fact demonstrated in relation to the recent Loans affair and in relation to so many other actions characterised by conviction.  Dr Cairns  and  Mr Connor  have been convicted of dishonesty and dismissed. 
I assert here and now that those who were signatories to this statement are equally guilty. If anyone wishes to dispute that they have successfully, on those and other occasions, exercised the right to reject money Bills he will have to re-write the  Hansard  and the records of this chamber. To be fair to  Senator Murphy  and  Mr Whitlam,  in those days they did not say that the Senate did not have the power to vote against a money Bill or to force a Government to resign. In those days they asserted both. Quotations have already been put before the Senate which have been taken from the  Hansard  of both chambers showing that both  Senator Murphy  as Leader of the Opposition in this chamber and  Mr Whitlam  as Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives asserted the right to vote against a money Bill and to force a Government to resign.  Mr Whitlam  called on the Government to resign after the rejection of the States Receipts Duty Bill in 1970. If an honourable senator is entitled to vote against a money Bill- as individual honourable senators have done, including some fifteen who are still Labor members of this chamber, on some 6000 occasions between 1950 and 1970- then all honourable senators have the right and the power so to vote. It matters not to the existence of the power whether they voted successfully or unsuccessfully. They have continually asserted the power over the years. 
I shall be even more specific because I believe  Senator Wriedt  has to carry the responsibility here for what his Party is doing. I have always had the highest regard for  Senator Wriedt.  I state that here and now. I am disappointed to find him in a difficult position and unable to answer questions at question time because he is required to assert that which, in honesty, cannot be asserted. On 33 occasions between 1968 and November 1 970 he has voted to reject a money Bill. He has voted successfully to reject a money Bill. So have other honourable senators in this chamber. There are others to whom I would like to refer specifically as examples. I have not taken out all the figures for the latter part of 1970, nor for 1971 and 1972, but I did use some examples to which I will quickly refer. In 1971, in relation to the Post and Telegraph Bill, 3 votes were taken to reject it, namely, on the second reading, at the committee stage and on the third reading. The Opposition, now the Government, voted to reject that money Bill. There was the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill which met a similar fate. The Broadcasting and Television Bill, which was a money Bill, was voted against on the second and third readings. The Excise Tariff Bill was voted against on the second reading. There was the Income Tax Bill. If anyone is left wondering because I have not paused to explain in detail about for instance the Post and Telegraph Bill, I point out that it was a money Bill. In fact, these were all Bills which raised charges. The Income Tax Bill, by its very name, is clearly a money Bill. 
In 1971 when dealing with the Income Tax Bill the Labor Party asserted its right to reject a money Bill in the Senate. It voted to amend the second reading to have the Bill withdrawn. Those were all occasions on which the present Leader of the Government in this chamber,  Senator Wriedt,  voted to reject a money Bill. I suggest it is nonsense even to contemplate for a moment that a power given by way of the Constitution, admittedly one to be used, as was obviously contemplated, on but very rare occasions, should be able to atrophy. I think we have a situation in which the Government is desperately trying to find a way out of an imbroglio into which it has got itself because of its total incapacity to govern and to manage the Australian economy. I sum up by referring to a statement made by  Sir Robert  Menzies who so often has been quoted with approval by the present Prime Minister. I doubt that that will happen any longer.  Sir Robert  Menzies is well known as a leading constitutional lawyer in Australia. He was Australia's longest serving Prime Minister. The conclusion of his statement reads: 
To offer advice to the Governor-General on the lines that have been hinted at would, I think, be both improper and insulting. There is no legal principle that permits a wrongdoer to profit from his own actions. 
At the conclusion of my speech I shall seek leave to incorporate that statement in  Hansard.  I also refer to others who have made statements similar to that of  Sir Robert  Menzies, such as Professor Lane,  Mr Odgers,  Quick and Garran, Harrison Moore and Professor Crisp who could certainly not be regarded as an Australian Labor Party hater, or as a right winger or as a conservative lawyer. There are numerous others including, as I have mentioned, the founding fathers, the first Senate on the. first Supply Bill and such other lesser mortals as  Senator Murphy  and honourable senators of the Labor Party in this chamber who on some 6000 occasions asserted their right to reject moneys Bills. Let me sum up by saying that it is a question of the supremacy of Parliament. The Constitution deliberately gave the 
Senate the power to reject money Bills, knowing that this could create a deadlock. The people were to be the ultimate arbiters through the ballot box. That is the ultimate in democracy. Ours is the finest and most democratic Constitution in the world. It must not be damaged and destroyed by the determination of the Prime Minister to avoid the judgment of the people. There is no need for the things to which Government speakers have referred to take place. The GovernorGeneral should be asked to dissolve both Houses and to let the people judge. It is a matter of saving the principle upon which the Constitution was founded. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired.  Senator Rae,  you mentioned that you would seek leave to incorporate a document in  Hansard? 
Yes. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
STATEMENT BY SIR ROBERT MENZIES 
As is well known,I have, for a long time abstained from entering into any current political controversy. But the circumstances today are such as to compel me to break that silence. For, quite simply, I think more nonsense is being talked about the constitutional position of the Senate than I can comfortably listen to, or read. 
Powers of the Senate 
If we desire to know what are the powers of the Senate over money bills, we find them expressly set out in the Constitution. The draftsmen of the Constitution included these provisions because they knew (and this is a matter of historical fact) that the smaller States i.e. smaller in population, would not vote for federation unless they have some protection given to them in the Senate and they got it. And they still have it. The relevant provisions of section 53 are as follows: 
The Senate may not amend proposed laws imposing taxation, or proposed laws appropriating revenue or monies for the ordinary annual services of the government. 'and 
Except as provided in this section, the Senate shall have equal power with the House of Representatives in respect of all proposed laws.' 
Now these provisions, which are the material ones, establish quite plainly that, while the Senate may not itself amend what we  call  'money bills', it can pass them, or reject them, because these are the powers of the House of Representatives in respect of the same measures. 
Let me repeat, the Senate may not amend these measures, but it may reject them, or, of  course,  in the ordinary course of debate, it may adjourn them. 
It would be absurd to suppose that the draftsmen of the Constitution conferred these powers on the Senate with a mental reservation that they should never be exercised. 
Now, nobody has any doubts about this legal position.  Mr Whitlam  had no doubt about it when he was Leader of the 
Opposition, nor did  Senator Murphy,  as he then was, when he asked the DLP senators to join with Labor in throwing out  a  financial measure. All that has happened is that  Mr Whitlam  is now Prime Minister and, as I know from experience, Prime Ministers become a little frustrated if the Senate carries a vote against them. But this does not settle the arguments of constitutionality. The Constitution's meaning does not change according to the direction from which  Mr Whitlam  and his Ministers look at it. 
Now let me go on from there. 
I do not believe that the Senate ought as a matter of political judgment, to exercise its powers in every case. 
I think that in the interests of stability of government it would be wrong for the Senate, for example, to reject a Supply for the sole reason that it did not like the financial measures and had the power to reject them. 
Everything depends on the circumstances. For a Government, fresh from the people, with a victory to be challenged in the Senate under section 53, would be, in my opinion, wrong. Not illegal, no, but politically wrong. 
But these are not the circumstances today. The Government has, in the last 12 months, itself put up a record of unconstitutionality and, if it is not too strong a word, misconduct on a variety of occasions. 
On one occasion, it concerned  Dr Cairns,  who was put out for not accurately informing the Parliament. On a recent occasion, it was  Mr Connor  (so senior a Minister, as Cairns was, as to have acted in the highest ministerial capacity);. Connor has gone because, on the Prime Minister's own statement, he misled the House. And then there is the not to be forgotten incident of the Executive Council meeting at which the Prime Minister was present, and at which the then Attorney-General gave a ' kerbstone ' opinion. 
At that meeting, the Executive Council, the GovernorGeneral not being present, authorised the borrowing of a sum of so huge a description that it would far exceed all the borrowings ever made by the Commonwealth in 75 years. It was to be done through obscure and unorthodox channels. 
It was to be a borrowing for 20 years. It was to be a huge borrowing in which the sum received by the Commonwealth from the lenders was 951/2 in 100, but the total of 100 had to be repaid at compound interest. 
This Executive Council decision was scandalous. It was clearly and unblushingly designed to escape the obligation in the Constitution to go to the Loan Council under the finan  cial  agreement for approval. 
True, it thought it expedient to call the borrowing one for temporary purposes '; but a first year student would laugh at this as a prescription of the loan to which I have referred. 
It was  a  disreputable incident. It was designed to evade the constitutional obligations of the Commonwealth. 
Now, you cannot add these things together and say that the Senate ought to accept them with complacency. This, if there ever was an occasion, was one when the Senate ought to have exercised its undisputed right to defer or reject financial measures involved in the Budget. 
All these things are so simple to anybody who (like myself) has been both legally and politically familiar with the Constitution and its workings that I have been astonished to discover that the Opposition is now being treated, not as a body authorised to check malpractice by the Government but, as itself, guilty of violating and defying the Constitution! ! 
I cannot imagine that any competent lawyer would agree with this view. But a lot of people will, if it is sufficiently pushed into them by a variety of people in the Government, aided and abetted by some elements in the media. 
Finally, and I would say this with unfeigned respect for the vice-regal office, I think it would be a singular piece of impertinence on the part of the Prime Minister to go to the Governor-General, whose reputation is high, and who understands these things very well, and ask him for a premature 'half Senate' election, calculated and designed, hopefully, because of the recent legislation about senators from the Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, to give the Government control of the Senate for a month or two, in which time, of course, all their legislation which now has been attacked in the Senate, could be carried, with permanent (and I think damaging) effects on the Australian political structure. To offer advice to the Governor-General on the lines that have been hinted at would,I think, be both improper and insulting. There is no legal principle that permits a wrong doer to profit from his own actions. 
ROBERT MENZIES, Melbourne21 October 1975 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What are the titles of the reports, papers or documents produced by or for the Government since December 1972 in the areas of the Minister's responsibility which have not been publicly released. 
asked the Special Minister of 
State, upon notice: 
What estimated savings have been made by (a) governmental authorities, (b) private firms, (c) organisations and, (d) others, since the recent re-introduction of daylight saving around Australia. 
Could the Minister provide a breakdown by each State and Territory since 1965. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice; 
1 ) To which Australian overseas Missions are Cultural Attaches presently posted. 
When were they appointed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the exact amount paid to Electrolytic Zinc Company of Australia Ltd of Hobart by way of grant for assistance to retain employment. 
What amount of assistance did the Government originally state would be made available. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What are the titles of the reports, papers or documents produced by or for the Government since December 1972 in the areas of the Minister's responsibility which have not been publicly released. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Does the Prime Minister agree with the recommendation contained in the publication 'Secrecy- Political Censorship in Australia,' for the creation of a ' . . . a parliamentary committee with power to call for the production of any document, to assess independently whether a government classification of that document is justified, and if necessary to order its classification,' with 'The Opposition' appointing the majority of members on such a Committee'; if so, has the Prime Minister taken any positive steps to see that such a Committee is established. 
asked the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
What are the titles of the reports, papers or documents produced by or for Government since December 1 972 in the areas of the Minister's responsibility which have not been publicly released. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Did the Minister say recently that, 'Some Australian children were reaching high school without being able to read'. 
For each of the last 25 years, with a breakdown by State and Territory, how many students were known to reach secondary school without being able to read and write. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) How many projects, enterprises, grants, etc., within the control of the Minister have not had adequate supervision of their expenditure, since the Queensland Turtle Farm project was found to be inadequately financially controlled. 
Will the Depanment be paying to the New South Wales Foundation for Aboriginal Affairs the $80,000 requested by it, together with the subsequent $16,000 per month for administration. 
How much additional unplanned expenditure will be required over and above the $4,334 paid on 25 September for Aboriginal Self Help Enterprises in Western Australia. 
What additional supervisory measures have been adopted by the Department to control expenditure since the Turtle Farm scandal. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
Was an inter-departmental committee appointed to examine the 'overlap of Australian Government grants' in June 1974 as reported in July 1975; if so, when. 
Were the Departments of Education, Social Security, Health, Tourism and Recreation, and the Treasury all represented on the committee; if not, which departments were represented. 
Who were the members of the committee. 
When did the Government receive a report or reports from the committee. 
5 ) Were they made public; if so, when. 
How many separate programs administered at the local level were mentioned in the reports. 
What were they. 
What were the recommendations contained in the reports. 
Do the reports indicate that there has been a lack of co-ordination by the Government among locally based programs covering schools, health, social welfare, urban improvement and employment. 
10) Do the reports specify the additional costs the duplication of programs has involved; if so, what were the costs. 
What action if any has the Government taken on the recommendations contained in the reports. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I ask: In the circumstances of the now daily disclosure of new instances of deception and deceit by this Government, with the sacking of  Dr Cairns  and  Mr Connor,  both former Acting Prime Ministers of this country, for lying, with the claims by  Dr Cairns  that the Prime Minister is a liar and was well aware of the details of the loans affair, with the revelation now that the Treasurer,  Mr Hayden,  leaked the Budget to the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and with the increasing evidence indicating the Labor Government's involvement in the ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd fraud, will the Minister seek to have the Prime Minister do at least one honourable thing and resign? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What are the titles of the reports, papers or documents produced by or for the Government since December 1972 in the areas of the Minister's responsibility which have not been publicly released. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
What are the titles of the reports, papers or documents produced by or for the Government since December 1972 in the areas of the Minister's responsibility which have not been publicly released. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
What are the titles of the reports, papers or documents produced by or for the Government since December 1 972 in the areas of the Minister's responsibility which have not been publicly released. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
1 ) In respect of how many employees for the financial year 1974-75 has the Australian Post Office and the Postal Commission contravened section 22 IF (5) (b) of the Income Tax Assessment Act which says 'a group employer shall  . . not later than the fourteenth day of July in each year, issue to each employee a group certificate . . . ' 
2 ) What is the reason for any contraventions. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to my representations to the Minister regarding funds outstanding to the Devonfield Sheltered Workshop at Devonport and other similar organisations. The Minister has indicated to me that the shortage of funds is related to the Budget cuts and not to the deferment of the Appropriation Bills. Will the Minister indicate if and when the funds promised to the Devonfield Sheltered Workshop and other similar organisations may be forthcoming as this is important to the negotiation for bridging finance which the Minister has suggested such organisations should seek to enable them to continue operations? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
What are the titles of the reports, papers or documents produced by or for the Government since December 1972 in the areas of the Attorney-General's responsibility which have not been publicly released. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Can the Minister list all individual centres within Australia where citizens can be referred for social security and welfare, legal information and other advice in what are generally known as community aid centres. 
What basic services are offered at each centre. 
) Which body or bodies fund these centres in each case. 
Which body or bodies are responsible for the control, funding and administration of each centre. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Is it not a fact that he, among other Labor senators, voted to defeat the Appropriation Bills in 1970? Is it not also a fact that the Australian Labor Party, when in Opposition, voted against numerous money Bills and succeeded in relation to a number of them, including important Budget legislation such as the States Grants (Receipts Duty) Bill? How can the Minister say, as he did in answer to a question asked by  Senator Chaney  this morning, that the Opposition's action in this chamber, in relation to the current appropriation Bills, is unprecendented and constitutes a constitutional crisis? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the Australian Government's Community Health and Community Mental Health, Alcoholism and Drug Dependency Programs, what voluntary organisations have requested financial assistance from the Minister's Department for the establishment or maintenance of a federal headquarters. 
) Which organisations have been granted assistance and to what extent in each case. 
What mechanisms does the Government utilise to ensure that grants made are not only spent but are expended for the original purposes set out. 
Have these practices been carried out in each case where assistance has been given. 
What guidelines have been established for the eligibility of organisations. 
What specific types of organisations under such guidelines would be, and have been, excluded. 
For what specific purposes are grants made for (a) capital costs and (b) maintenance costs. 
What percentage of contributions are organisations expected to make in respect of 7 (a) and (b). 
At what point in a proposal are State, territorial and local governments consulted. 
How many successful applications and which ones have received full State, or territorial, or local government support. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) What amounts have been provided for by the Department of the Treasury in the 1 975-76 Budget for direct untied grants to the States for distribution as the States see fit to local government bodies. 
What amounts have been provided for by the Department of the Treasury in the 1975-76 Budget for tied grants to the States for distribution to local government bodies on terms set out by the Federal Government. 
In respect of each of the above cases, will the Treasurer specify whether the amount is more or less than in 1 974-75, and by how much. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
Following the Minister's answer to  Senator Rae's  Question No. 535 on grams, loans, tax inducements and other inducements regarding the tourism industry, would the Minister itemise each of the grants, loans and loan guarantees other than loan guarantees in respect of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation, that have been made by the Government since December 1972. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister received a proposal from  Mr Marc  Stone of Sydney for an Australian Sports Festival. 
When was it first received by the Minister. 
What is the detail of the proposal. 
Has Cabinet considered the proposal; if so, when. 
) As  Mr Stone  has indicated his desire for the Minister to publicly indicate the Government's response, what action has the Government taken in respect of the proposal. 
What future action is proposed by the Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, upon notice: 
Has the Minister received a proposal from  Mr Marc  Stone of Sydney for a Village Olympus tourism and recreation network. 
When was it first received by the Minister. 
What is the detail of the proposal. 
Has Cabinet considered the proposal; if so, when. 
) As  Mr Stone  has indicated his desire for the Minister to publicly indicate the Government's response, what action has the Government taken in respect of the proposal. 
What future action is proposed by the Government. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) What amounts have been provided for by the Department of Labor and Immigration in the 1975-76 Budget for direct untied grants to the States for distribution as the States see fit to local government bodies. 
What amounts have been provided for by the Department of Labor and Immigration in the 1975-76 Budget for tied grants to the States for distribution to local government bodies on terms set out by the Federal Government. 
In respect of each of the above cases, will the Minister specify whether the amount is more or less than in 1974-75, and by how much. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the purpose of the Australian Broadcasting Commission State Advisory Committees. 
) Do they serve the intended or any useful purpose. 
I ask the Minister assisting the Minister for Defence: Has there been any build up in our armed forces this year? If so, for what reason has that taken place? Secondly, what plans has the Government for any reorganisation of the armed forces during the period in which the Government plans to govern unlawfully and without the approval of the Parliament? 
Will the Minister for Science indicate when he proposes to publish his or his Department's Green Paper on meteorological services and when and how the formal protests over the withdrawal of Tasmanian coastal station reports from the scheduled broadcasts of Hobart marine radio will be considered? Will the Minister note that there is a near unanimous protest from Tasmanian fishermen and other small boat operators who regard the service as vital to their safety irrespective of the attitudes which may be adopted in other parts of Australia? 

 -Mr President- - 

 Senator McAuliffe We go from a gold coated chocolate to a boiled lolly. 
If the members in the pits have finished, I would like to proceed to formally congratulate you,  Mr President,  on your election to the high office which you hold. I congratulate the new members of the Senate who have the honour of being able to participate in the affairs of this chamber. I congratulate the new senators who have made their maiden speeches, particularly the representatives of the Territories who have spoken here today, the first time the Territories have been represented. I also congratulate  Senator Messner.  He spoke principally on a very important subject, namely, small business. I thank  Senator James  McClelland who is so exhausted by his labours that he has had to depart rapidly from the chamber. I congratulate him for at least keeping his concentration and the concentration of the rump on the issues to which he addressed himself. I think the people of Australia have long since ceased to take very much interest in those issues. While members of the Australian Labor Party continue to have themselves possessed of those issues, I am sure that they will be viewed as runners who are very far behind in the race. I do not mind if the Labor Party wishes to continue to debate that subject ad nauseum as it has in the past. I think the people of Australia are sick of looking back and sick of raking over the coals with a form of paranoia. I think they would rather look forward. I respect the right of honourable senators opposite to say that there was something wrong in what happened. 
If  Senator Gietzelt  would not mind, I would just like to say that if there was something wrong the Labor Party should let us have some constructive proposal as to how whatever was wrong should be overcome, that should be debated in the proper manner and honourable senators should put forward any form of reform which they see as necessary. Let us not have a continuation of what was an extremely unsuccessful election campaign; rather, let us have people considering whether any form of constitutional reform is necessary. At the moment I have not heard what form it should take; but, if honourable senators have propositions, let us have them. If they do not have any, let them shut up about the nonsense. I do not think it is really helping to be raking over the coals continuously. 
I want to talk about the Governor-General's Speech because that is the matter to which the people of Australia have to look forward at the moment. The Speech outlines the new Government's proposals for controlling inflation and for reducing unemployment. It sets out the measures and the principles. I think that most people either heard yesterday or read today some of the major points of that Speech. I do not propose to take time to repeat all of them. But I wish to make same additional points. I want to go back to what I said when the Labor Party first took over government. I think it is pertinent to remind any new government of this. When dealing with one of the first pieces of legislation before the Senate in March 1973, the Social Services Bill 1973, which, amongst other things, increased the age pension, I said: 
One of the good things about this Bill is that it is a reflection of the fact that as a country becomes more affluent it can afford to do more for people who deserve and who are entitled to assistance out of the public purse. But the thing that underlies, and must underlie, all welfare programs is the continuation of sound economic policy. Sound economic policy must precede improvements in welfare. Without that sound economic policy the possibility of increasing welfare provision to those who need it and those who deserve it is simply not a proposition which a government can entertain. Unsound economic policies now place this country and all pensioners in jeopardy. Already we find that there are indications of gross inflation to take place this year. Already we find indications that with the rate of inflation this year, unless economic policies are changed by the new Government, it will not be possible at the rate proposed ever to achieve a base pension rate of 25 per cent of average weekly male earnings. I hope, and I am sure all honourable senators on this side of the chamber hope, that the Government will realise that some of the matters on which it has embarked already will have a disastrous effect upon the economy unless they can be curbed and unless they can be related further to sound development and the curtailment of inflation. 
I did not realise at the time how remarkably prophetic those words were. I did not realise that it would take only a little over 2 years to destroy everything that had been built up over the preceding years by sound economic management. I did not realise that we would see a situation quite so soon in which the rate of inflation destroyed the best endeavours of a Government which I do believe sincerely wanted to help improve the position of those in need in the community. But by a failure to apply the basic principles of sound economic management the previous Government destroyed its prospects of achieving that objective. 
I believe it is important to remember now as we are looking to the Governor-General's Speech that unless sound economic management is underlying and is accepted to be underlying government approach to overall policy, there will not be within the community that degree of confidence which underlies any sound economy. It is important to remember for a moment some of the things that destroyed the confidence of people in Australia. There were things like the pace setter principle in regard to the Public Service. There were the other measures which induced in people's minds an inflationary expectancy. Economists will develop all sorts of theories about the importance of monetary supply as opposed to the rate of growth of the public sector and whether it is a cost-push situation, whether it is not a cost-push situation, whether it is a wages explosion or whether it is any other measure that is causing inflation. I believe that there is only one simple fundamental in a modern economy which governs the effect of any monetary or fiscal measures which may be taken- that is, the way in which they are viewed in the modern era of instant communication in which the average person in the community is able to receive immediately through radio, television and the newspapers a feed out from the Government and form an impression about what the Government is doing. Unless they are receiving that with a degree of confidence, none of the control measures which might otherwise be taken and which used to be taken in former days are likely to be successful. 
This is what destroyed the Australian Labor Party's attempts last year to control inflation and which led me to the view that there was no policy which could be introduced by the then Government which would have restored the economic health of the Australian nation: The people of Australia had lost confidence in the economic management of that Government. I simply take the opportunity to emphasise that in my view the most precious thing which the new Government has is the confidence given to it as a gift- a great gift- on 13 December. The Government was given the confidence of the people and that confidence must be nurtured. It must be cherished and it must not be frittered away. If we go from one Government which frittered away confidence to another Government which fritters away confidence, the prospect of restoring the Australian economy will be dim indeed. 
I believe that the creation of inflation expectancy was a disaster. Whether it was intentional or not intentional is a matter for debate at other times, in other places. 

 - Senator Sir Magnus Cormack says that it was intentional because it was stated in the Australian Labor Party policy speech. I am not sure that everybody always intends everything that is stated in policy speeches. Whether it was intentional or not, I have noticed that an inflationary expectancy was created very firmly. People behaved accordingly and inflation was created. We must now ensure that we do not create a stagflation expectancy in Australia. I hope and trust that the Government will be very mindful of the importance of seeing that that confidence to which I have referred is not frittered away, not, as it was by the Labor Party, by the creation of a wild inflationary expectancy but by an overemphasis upon any current aspect of stagflation. 
I believe also that we must be careful to avoid the English NEDC- sometimes referred to as NEDDY- in which an economic council of the big is created and the small are forgotten. What happened in Great Britain- I am expressing my own view but it is one I have heard expressed by others, in Britain in particular- is that NEDDY has created the best combine, the best monopoly of all times. There the government, big business and the unions have got together to squeeze the consumer. Only the interests of the big are represented- so that they can meet together, so they can sort out what will not hurt them and what sort of solutions are most likely to have the least disadvantageous effect upon the big. And who suffers? The small people suffer and when the small people suffer the whole economy suffers. That is what we have already found. Unless we have incentive amongst the small people-the individuals, the small businesses, the individual employees, the people who generate the real wealth of the community- we will not have economic good health. We in Australia must be extremely careful to ensure that we do not create the same sort of dangerous monster which has been created in Great Britain with such disastrous effects. 
To ensure that the incentive about which I just spoke is kept and developed, we must ensure that taxation reform is real.  Senator James  McClelland has spoken already about wage indexation. The Governor-General, in his Speech, talked about tax indexation. But we need far more than tax indexation. As  Senator James  McClelland said, wage indexation is no answer. It may be of temporary assistance. It is an alternative to the circuit breaker of the complete freeze for a period of time. It is a way to try to achieve something. But it is not a permanent answer; nor is tax indexation the answer to the crying need in Australia for some real reform in taxation. 
I do not suggest for a moment that we should have a wage freeze. I said that indexation was an alternative to another way of achieving a similar objective, which is to have a total freeze as a circuit breaker for a limited period of time. I am not debating which one ought to be applied. What I am saying is that neither of them would provide a long term solution. 
I hope so. I think members of the Opposition are learning. I hope that we will see real reform commence in relation to taxation in Australia. Anyone who argues that our present system of taxation is either equitable or efficient is either not particularly conversant with the details or not particularly prepared to see the details. It is not an efficient system. It is not an equitable system. I believe that before people will be prepared to feel within themselves that they have a real incentive they must feel that the taxation system is equitable. Before we can reduce taxation adequately we must ensure that it is efficient, that the cost involved in the taxation system does not load too much on the collection and the administration and too little on the net left over for the beneficial use of the community in public programs. I believe that the restoration of incentives is one of the other major objectives of the new Government and I hope it will achieve success. 
The next matter to which I refer is federalism and tax-sharing which is also referred to in the Governor-General's Speech. I just want to make this comment: The desirableness- a word that funnily enough was used in the first reference that was ever given to a committee of the Senate; 
I am not sure if it is current usage but I plead that it has some precedent value in the Senate- of the move away from centralism is beyond dispute so far as I am concerned. That the States and local government should be able to look forward to receiving some certainty and some equity in the distribution of the total tax cake is also beyond doubt. But when one starts to think about federalism one starts to think about the prices paid. One starts to think about whether or not the system which we have been operating for some 40 years has been effective and efficient. If one sees that while we have been adopting a policy to improve an area which has perhaps we will say been a slum area in a city, and it is still a slum after 40 years, we may think that the policy that has been adopted has not been successful. If the federalism equalisation grants principle which has been adopted for the past 40 years has not managed to raise some of the small States from the equivalent of what I have described I believe that we could also regard it as unsuccessful, and the reason is that the theory of compensation- I refer, if I may, to my colleague  Senator Wright,  and hope that he may wish to make some comments, no doubt better informed, in relation to this matter when the opportunity arises- for federation is one which has been overlooked for far too long. I pause only to draw the picture of the island State of Tasmania which pays almost every penalty for federation such as having to pay high tariffs because we protect the industries of Melbourne and Sydney with everything we buy and having to have every industry which uses its natural resources and its labour resources - 
Some small-minded person interjects that I am anti-Australian. No federalist is anti-Australian. I am supporting the idea of federalism, not centralism and not the takeover but rather the free entry of Tasmania into a contract which has not so far been honoured. I believe that the other States of the Commonwealth and the Commonwealth itself have an obligation to reconsider the position of some of the small States, particularly Tasmania. Continuing with the example that I used, there is not a major industry in Tasmania which comes to mind which does not have its resources use in Tasmania, which does not have its labour use in Tasmania, which does not have its head office and its total distribution of the cream of the profitability of the enterprise in another State, usually Victoria. We find that the head office at which the high salaried people are employed by the company and pay their taxes is likely to be in Melbourne. We find that when an industry uses the services of an accountant, a lawyer, an insurer or whoever it may be, the services are likely to be provided in Melbourne. We find that in any system where centripetal forces are drawing towards a centre, and that is efficient. It is one of the reasons for federalism but it is also one of the reasons, why when we have federalism, we must have some real compensation for the areas that have joined together and which have lost as a result of the joining. They need to be compensated for what they have given to the central and stronger areas. I do not take time at this stage to develop that, but I will be seeking the time of the Senate to develop it further as the opportunity arises during the year. 
The point I make is that there is a very strong and real need to spell out as soon as possible the details of the new Government's federalism and tax sharing principles which have been referred to in the Governor-General's Speech. They need to be spelled out in good time so that they may be considered and debated publicly so that informed opinion may be given to them and we get the very best possible principle. This is in no way criticising the idea; it is simply saying: Can we have the details as soon as possible so that they may be considered? If necessary, I believe, this chamber, as a House of review and as a States House, would be eminently suited to give some further and detailed consideration to these proposals when they are spelled out to ensure that we get the best possible method of making federalism in Australia a working reality. 
I should like to refer briefly again to my State of Tasmania and to the fact that the GovernorGeneral in his Speech referred to the Government decision that action will be taken to give effect to the Government's commitment to develop the relative freight equalisation scheme for Bass Strait traffic. It does not say Bass Strait sea traffic. I am curious to know whether the policy will include air traffic. I look forward to some indication that it means air traffic as well as sea traffic. The point I also make is that not only did the Government's commitment go so far as a freight equalisation scheme for Bass Strait traffic but also it went so far as recognising Bass Strait as part of the national highway system. This is a very important concept and it is no answer to say, as some have said in the past, that the present legislation does not provide for a sea lane to be part of a national highway system. All that is required is that the legislation be amended. There is no functional or philosophical reason in principle why that cannot be done. I look forward to its being done at the first possible opportunity. 
The Speech also indicates in regard to Tasmania that the Government intends to proceed with the establishment of the maritime college at Launceston. A theme which I have always warmly supported is that there should be a maritime college in Australia and that after investigation the most suitable site should be none other than the city of Launceston. This college will do a great deal to enhance the total tertiary education opportunities for the whole of Tasmania. I think few can look back now and say that it was not a disastrous mistake to place the college of advanced education in Hobart next door to the university and that it should in fact have been placed in the most decentralised State in Australia in one of the decentralised areas. But that is a mistake. Those buildings cannot be removed and so the next thing is to provide opportunities for decentralised tertiary education by some other means. One of the important ways is by locating some national education institution, such as the maritime college, in an area which is ideally suited for it, and that is Launceston. I trust this will enable the planning of the availability of tertiary facilities at a college status to go ahead for the area of Ulverstone or the north-west coast at the earliest possible date. I believe that the maritime college is not only important from the point of view of the function which it serves in the Australian educational system but also it is of tremendous importance to the development of educational opportunities throughout Tasmania. I should be delighted to see it go ahead as soon as possible. 
There are mary other aspects of the policies which the Government undertook for Tasmania and which were announced over a period of time and I look forward to seeing those policies implemented. In fact, I will be watching with great interest and care for their introduction. I think all Tasmanians would accept that current economic circumstances necessitate the deferment of some of those policies but I am sure that they will not be lost from sight. Tasmania at the moment is suffering severely. As I think is well known, unemployment in Tasmania is some 50 per cent above the national average. The situation is worsening rapidly and I believe that some special measures are necessary to help to stimulate employment in that State. I hope that rumours I have heard relating to the deferral of the upgrading of the Fingal railway line are not accurate and that the quite considerable employment which that work would provide will not be lost to the State. I hope that we will hear something further about that as soon as possible. 
In relation to the general area of tourism, which appears to have been omitted from the Governor-General's Speech, perhaps because of the requirements of space, I look forward to hearing from the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton),  who, I am delighted to see, is in the chamber at the moment, the details of the implementation of the Government's policy in that particularly vital area. It is an area which I believe may dominate- I put it that way- the regrowth of the Australian economy in so many ways. It is an area which has been particularly damaged as a result of the policies adopted by the former government during the past 3 years and it is an area where, taking all the areas involved in tourism and travel, something like 10 per cent of the Australian population is already involved. The Hunter Valley Research Foundation, in its assessment of the future growth of tourism, regarded it as the major employment growth area in Australia. 
I think it is important that we do not lose sight of the fact that the Government's policies on tourism are the result of very careful and detailed consideration over a lengthy period of time. They are policies which were welcomed by the tourist industry. I believe that they are policies which are likely to achieve significant results in restoring economic good health not only to that industry but also, in a spin-off effect, to so many other industries. One of the tragedies which has to be faced at this stage of the new year of 1 976 is that as a result of the disastrous economic policies pursued in the past 3 years so many people are out of work, so many people are steadily losing the will and the opportunity and the capacity to work. There are so many people, such as those who were formerly engaged in the textile industry in my own city of Launceston and in George Town at the mouth of the Tamar, who wonder whether they will ever get back to work, whether they will ever get a work opportunity. They are getting into the frame of mind where they are losing the incentive to try to get back to work. Once those people are taken out of the work force, once their work opportunities are taken away, not only is the taxation revenue which they stimulate lost, but also an area has lost that extra income on which it depended for survival. 
I look forward to seeing the policies already enunciated and the further policies which I am sure are about to be enunciated by the new Government overcome steadily but surely the economic ills into which foolhardiness, however well intentioned, got us. I wish the Government well in the program which has been outlined in the Governor-General's Speech and I support the motion moved so ably by my new colleague,  Senator Knight,  in relation to that speech. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Transport indicate the present status of the project for upgrading the Fingal Valley railway line in Tasmania, for which tenders were called and received. When will the work proceed? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is it a fact that approximately one week prior to the 13 December election the Australian Broadcasting Control Board issued a direction to commercial radio and television stations that all decisions regarding the publication of election news items should be made by news editors and that management was to take no part therein? If so, by what right and for what reason was that direction given? 
1 ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport: In view of the most recent statement that the date of publication of the Nimmo report on shipping to and from Tasmania is likely to be March, and as the month of March has now commenced, can the Minister indicate whether the earlier estimate of when it would be published is accurate and, generally, when we may expect to see that report? 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
The report just tabled by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  is a report which I am sure will be welcomed by everyone interested in education in Tasmania. It is a report which we might say has arrived at long last. It has not taken a long time for the report to come to hand since the setting up of the Committee on PostSecondary Education in Tasmania, but it did take quite some time for an approach to be adopted towards a rationalisation of tertiary or post-secondary education facilities in Tasmaniathe decentralised State which has suffered from an over-centralisation of education facilities. The problem was created in the first place by what could only be described as a centralist-minded State Labor government. 
In 1966 the Northern Tertiary Education Committee was set up. I had the honour and pleasure of being a member of it. Just 10 years ago that Committee sought the sort of rationalisation which I understand has now been recommended by this Committee. The 1966 Committee was responsible for what was known as the Burton-Clark report. It was because of the agitation of that Committee that Professor Burton and Professor Clark were given the task of looking at the tertiary education facilities as they then were. It is unfortunate that the decision was taken during the early 1960s to establish the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education right next door to the University of Tasmania. It was regarded for a long time as precluding decentralised educational development in the State at a level which was desired by most people in the State. It appears that such decentralisation and such rationalisation are close to becoming realities. I emphasise in referring to this the importance of the decision taken by the former Government and by the present Government to go ahead with the development of the Maritime College situated at Launceston to be constructed in conjunction with the College of Advanced Education at Newnham. The Liberal Party announced its policy before any other party to develop both the Maritime College and the autonomous educational institution at Newnham. I personally look forward to the day when that development, which now appears so close, will lead to the development of similar facilities for tertiary education on the north-west coast. 
I refer now to the recommendations made by the Committee. Recommendation (1) states, amongst other things:  (ti) To achieve these objectives, the existing programs of the Mt Nelson campus of the TCAE should be transferred to the University or to a fully autonomous college of advanced education at Newnham (or as necessary, to the Hobart Technical College), and the site and buildings of the TCAE at Mt Nelson transferred to the University. 
It also recommends that existing legislation relating to the Tasmanian Council of Advanced Education and the TCAE should be replaced by new legislation establishing a fully autonomous college of advanced education at Newnham. 
I pause there to emphasise that it is of the utmost importance that a new council be established as soon as possible to carry out the work of the transfer, establishment and development of the recommended institute. The building program which is recommended by the Committee should take the majority of the next triennium 's funds for capital expenditure for the development of the Newnham site and that, together with the construction of the Maritime College, will give a very welcome boost to the hard pressed building and construction industry. While I am referring to that I urge the Minister to take every step to ensure that in accordance with announced policies Tasmanian services and contractors are used in that work. I look forward to studying the report in detail. To enable me to do so and to make some further comments I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is any further information available in relation to the source of the funds subscribed to the first issue of Australian savings bonds? If so, can that information be made available to the Senate? 

 - Mr President, I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What subsidies have been paid by the Australia Council on the recommendation of the Literature Board to  the  publishing firm Angus and Robertson, since the inception of the Council. 
What subsidies have been paid  to  other publishing firms. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What is the total of the grants paid by the Australia Council to the Sydney Nimrod Theatre since May 1 974. 
What is the total amount of the grants paid by  the  Australia Council to other similar enterprises in theatre activities. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation: 
Does the Department of Repatriation accept reverse charge telephone calls from clients of the Department living in isolated areas of Australia. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Minister see the report on page 23 of the  SunHerald  of 29 February 1976 concerning the non-eligibility of asthmatics for teaching scholarships with the New South Wales Government Teaching Service; if so, is the report accurate. 
As far as Commonwealth education in the Territories is concerned, does the Minister agree with  Dr David  Lindsay, a specialist in thoracic medicine at Royal Alfred Hospital and Medical Director of the Asthma Foundation, that such ineligibility was primitive, illogical and ignorant. 
What is the consensus of medical opinion on the eligibility of asthmatics for teaching positions and other government posts. 
What is the position regarding eligibility of asthmatics for teaching posts and scholarships in the Territories. 
Will the Minister review the position, in the light of  Dr Lindsay's  assessment, if asthmatics are presently precluded from such employment in the Territories. 
I wish to raise some matters during the Committee stage in relation to clause 4 which provides: 
In this Act- 
Housing Agreement', in relation to a State, means- 
the agreement with the State executed in pursuance with the  Housing Agreement Act  1973 . . . 
It goes on to give some further definition. I want to remind the Senate of some of the debate which took place on the Housing Agreement Bill 1973. That measure was debated at the end of May 1973 after there had been a meeting of Ministers, that is, the then Federal Labor Minister for Housing and the Ministers for Housing in the various States. It came to our notice as an Opposition that during that conference on the new Housing Agreement, almost every one of the States vigorously, and all the States to some extent, opposed the terms of that Agreement. What they opposed most strenuously was the percentage of the funds being provided by the Commonwealth to the States which had to be spent on rental housing as opposed to the funds which were being made available to enable people to purchase their own homes. I recall with considerable clarity that the States, Victoria in particular and others to a lesser extent, were especially concerned to the stage where they were anxious to have the Federal Opposition of the day object to the legislation by either amending or rejecting it. That was a fairly severe stage to be reached. The Opposition, being a very responsible Opposition as we always were- I notice  Senator Greenwood  is acknowledging that statement even if not everyone in the chamber is- put forward in both the House of Representatives and in this chamber an amendment which would have altered the terms of the Agreement from the provision of 30 per cent for home purchase to 50 per cent for home purchase. This was an action which was taken very deliberately by the Opposition in pursuit of a policy and philosophy which was enunciated during the debate. I would like to quote something of what I said at that time when leading for the Opposition in this chamber in that debate. As recorded at page 2 176 of the Senate  Hansard  of 1973, 1 said: 
We believe that the people of Australia will be best served by having an adequate opportunity to purchase through housing schemes the homes in which they intend to reside. 
I went on to make the point about incentive and give the other reasons we adhered to that philosophy. Then I said something of which now it would be pertinent to remind members of the Opposition, particularly some of those who have spoken today. I believe that it is as well to remind people that they were warned. In May 1973 I said: 
Will there be a decrease in the availability of low rental housing? To what extent is the Commonwealth Government really dealing with a need, as it claims to be, for the provision of rental housing as opposed to housing available for purchase? Those States which have pursued the philosophy adopted by the Opposition in this chamber of endeavouring to provide people with the opportunity to own their own home and, amongst other things, to have some hedge against inflation, something which will become an increasing problem as we on this side of the chamber are all too well aware, an increasing problem as this reckless Government rushes on its way down the path of inflation, do not wish to see people, particularly people whose circumstances we regard as needy, not given any opportunity to obtain that hedge against inflation, to build up funds which may perhaps give them a deposit on a house at some later stage should they wish to move to some other place. No, it is to be insisted upon that 70 per cent of the funds available is for rental housing and only 30 per cent for homes to be purchased. 
One of the eminent members of the then Opposition said it. As a matter of fact, I said it. I quoted that part of the speech, amongst other things, to remind honourable senators opposite that we warned them about where their reckless, headlong rush was taking this country in relation to inflation. Events have proved us to be almost 100 per cent correct in our prediction of the rate of inflation which they achieved in some areas in their period in office. I also remind the chamber that the then Opposition, now the Government, was particularly concerned to change the ratio back, if possible, to a 50/50 situation- 50 per cent of the funds to be used for rental housing and 50 per cent for home purchase. The present Minister,  Senator Greenwood,  said, as reported on page 2188 of  Hansard: 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was indicating that the new housing policy which the Labor Government was imposing upon the people of Australia was a policy which not only denigrated the virtues of home ownership but also sought to elevate the Commonwealth control of State functions. This is a tendency which reverses what had been the pattern of some 23 years of Liberal-Country Party Government in this country. 
Later he went on to say: 
I feel that the whole approach which this current Government is epitomising in this legislation is an approach which emphasises Commonwealth control as against State autonomy. It is an approach which denigrates home ownership in favour of the provision of rental accommodation. It is an approach which indicates what I describe as the general socialist approach as against the Liberal approach which seeks to build up a community of individuals with a sense of responsibility. 
In due course, during the Committee stage we moved an amendment which, if it had been carried, would have provided a 50/50 division of funds for the 2 purposes that I have mentioned. That was not to be, because certain of the parties in the Senate at the time did not choose to vote with the Liberal and National Country parties. The net result was that the amendment was lost. I take this opportunity to ask the Minister to explain, not only to me but also to the chamber, whether any steps are being taken to ensure that there can be a meeting of Ministers to renegotiate this agreement which we, when in Opposition, regarded as reprehensible in the various ways which were outlined by speakers of the then Opposition during the debate in 1973. 1 ask this question bearing in mind the change of fortune in Western Australia, which now has the good fortune to have a. Liberal government, and the impending change of fortune in Tasmania. That State will be fortunate enough soon to have a change of government. Taking into consideration the situation which I am sure will exist in South Australia where the South Australian Government will wish to look after the interest of its people- even though they could be better looked after by a change in government, as my colleague  Senator Jessop  would agree- will the Minister give some indication as to what steps are being taken to renegotiate this agreement so that the sorts of changes which we attempted to make in 1973 can be made at the first possible opportunity? 
I take this opportunity to raise a second point. Because the Bill is being taken as a whole, I will speak to clause 12 and to the Schedule. Is the amount of money being made available under this Bill in respect of the State of Queensland to include the moneys which are made available to that State under the housing assistance legislation which, in respect of every other State, will be made available through the Aboriginal housing assistance? The Minister no doubt will recall that as a result of the pettiness and the smallminded attitude adopted by the Labor Government last year and the year before, it took away from the State of Queensland in relation to Aboriginal development moneys which otherwise would have been provided for Aboriginal housing. It said that the moneys had been lumped into the total amount negotiated with respect to housing under the States Grants (Housing Assistance) Act. I would like to know from the Minister whether that money is included in this appropriation. If not, where will that money be picked up? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Of students presently undertaking courses in Australian tertiary institutions under the auspices of the Australian Development Assistance Agency: 
how many are undertaking courses in 1976 being funded by the Australian Development Assistance Agency, 
b) from which countries are they drawn, 
what courses are being studied, and 
in which Universities, Colleges of Advanced Education etc. are the courses being studied. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. By way of introduction, I refer to the policy of the Government parties in relation to the shipbuilding subsidy of 25 per cent on Australian built fishing vessels over 70 feet. I ask, in relation to the further part of that policy of considering the extension of that subsidy to vessels over 50 feet being referred to the Industries Assistance Commission: Has that happened? If so, can any estimate be made as to when a report may be received? If it has not yet happened, can the Minister indicate when it will happen? 
I direct a question to  Senator Cotton,  either in his capacity as the Minister representing the Treasurer or as the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, whichever is appropriate. By way of brief introduction, I refer to the fact that it was announced Liberal-National Country Party policy to make long term loans available for the purchase of modern fishing vessels on the basis of a 30 per cent to 50 per cent equity. Have any steps been taken yet to implement this policy? If they have, can the Minister indicate what they are and what provision is made available for that purpose? If not, can he indicate when fishermen may be able to anticipate that such arrangements will be available to them? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister read a book edited by Ralph Nader entitled ' Whistle Blowing'. 
Does that book refer to inadequacies in the testing, interchangeability of parts, and safety tests and checks carried out by the manufacturers of rifles designed for use by the American Armed Services. 
What tests are presently carried out to ensure the safe and reliable operation of weapons issued to members of the Australian Armed Services. 
What weapons are presently standard issue for members ofthe Australian Army, Navy and Air Force. 
From whom are each of these weapons purchased, and by whom are each of these weapons manufactured. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Defence aware that the first Tasmania Military Tattoo has just finished and that it was an outstanding success? Is the Minister aware that it attracted participants of a high standard from various parts of the world? Does the Minister recognise that the Tattoo constituted an event of international significance as well as a major national event? Will the Minister assure the Senate and those now considering the planning of future Tasmanian military tattoos that the participation and assistance of the Commonwealth defence forces will continue to be made available? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Has it been the practice that passengers can pay for Trans-Australian Airlines and National Railways Tickets with personal cheques over the counter at all passenger terminals. 
Can passengers pay for Trans-Australian Airlines and National Railways Tickets with personal 'bankcards' over the counter at all passenger terminals in the States where bankcards are in use; if not, why not. 
If not, will the Minister request Trans-Australia Airlines and National Railways to treat bankcards the same way as personal cheques for the convenience of passengers. 

 - Mr President, my question is addressed to you. By way of brief introduction I refer to a letter signed by a senior Minister of the present Government,  Mr Nixon,  dated 23 December 1975, addressed as follows: 
Prince Leonard, 
Sovereign, 
Hutt River Province. 
It commences: 'My Dear Prince Leonard'. In the body of the letter it says,  inter alia: 
Your efforts in the field of public relations are to be commended. 
It also says: 
I hope that your endeavours in this field continue to meet with the same success. 
I ask you,  Mr President,  whether in the light of the Government's determination to take all possible steps to curtail expenditure and in particular to curtail overseas trips and in the light of the importance of the contacts and understanding obtained by members of this Parliament by the annual parliamentary delegation to other countries, will you discuss with the Prime Minister the possibility of arranging a parliamentary delegation to the Hutt River Province, thereby satisfying both the interests of economy and international goodwill? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the previous Minister for Education say on the television program 'Federal File', on Sunday, 31 August 1975, 'I am assured in certain high schools . . . that children can go through the primary school reaching high school and they are not able to read. We are talking about normal children, not mentally defective children or migrant children who might have a language problem.' 
Was the former Minister's answer to Senate Question No. 834 on 29 October 1975 a contradiction in that he said he was assured some high school children were unable to read and write and then went on to say that statistics were not available to him. 
Will the Minister ascertain from whatever sources he can, for each of the past 25 years, with a breakdown by State and Territory, how many students were known to reach secondary school without being able to read and write. 
If the Minister is unable to provide data for each of the last 25 years, will he provide the information sought in as much detail, and as far back, as possible. 
What have been the causes for high school students not being able to read and write. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice: 
Can the Minister confirm the new Government's intention to continue the program of decentralising Public Servants away from Canberra to Tasmania; if so, what particular projects does the Government intend to pursue in this program. 
What number of Public Servants will ultimately be relocated under the program. 
By what dates does the Government envisage projects presently planned will be completed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1) Is the Government making arrangements for the establishment of a Young Farmers Establishment Scheme. 
What is the age definition of young farmer. 
Will the Scheme enable young persons who wish to become primary producers, to borrow finance from a publicauthority at a discounted rate. 
When will the Scheme be announced. 
What other schemes is the Government considering which will enable young Australians who wish to participate in other primary, secondary or tertiary industry enterprises to borrow finance from a public authority at a discounted rate. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the latest estimated completion date for the National Gallery. 
) What is the latest estimated final cost of the Gallery. 
Is the Minister for Education aware that the Tasmanian Minister for Education,  Mr Batt,  last Friday claimed that the future of the maritime college to be situated at Launceston is now in doubt? Will the Minister reassure the Senate and all people interested in this Liberal Party initiated project that it will proceed with all possible expedition consistent with proper planning? 
I support the Government in its general program to restore sound economic management to this country. We all know that the pensioners, above all others, have been adversely affected by the economic mismanagement which was the hallmark of the 3 years up until December 1975. We all know that although pensions were increased their purchasing value decreased. We all know that although the moneys for education were increased the number of schools and classrooms, and effectively the amount of advantage to be gained by the people of Australia from the amount of Government money, people's money, spent tended to diminish. 
I make it quite clear that insofar as it is necessary to restore sound economic management to this country and to effect cuts I shall support the Government, but I find it impossible to support the proposal put forward in this piece of legislation. My experience as the honorary secretary of a law society and legal aid scheme for six or seven years certainly brought it home to me that a large number of people are particularly concerned about whether they will be able to obtain, in the words that have been used so often in this debate, a decent burial. When these people are asked to fill in an application for legal aid they are reticent about disclosing their means. 

 - Senator McAuliffe, you with your pub experience would not even know what hardship is like. Just keep out of it.  Mr Chairman,  if I may goon - 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Order! I will not have that sort of behaviour in the Senate. 
I was going to talk about people with real problems, people like those who, when asked to complete an application form for legal aid stating their means, display a reticence. When the legal aid officer starts to investigate he finds out that if the people are elderly they have a sum of money tucked away in a bank account to give them a decent burial. These are the people I am concerned about and about whom  Senator McAuliffe  and others apparently are not concerned. I am talking about people who think it is important that they should be able to be buried decently, people who think it is important that they should not have to be a load upon their relations or their friends and that they should be able to pay for their own funeral. The $40 represented by the funeral benefit, however inadequate, is a supplement to help meet that desire of a large number of elderly people. Unless there were an extremely good reason for withdrawing that benefit, or unless it were being supplanted by something superior, then I would simply say that those people of whom I speak, those people to whom it matters, must have their interests represented in the Senate if nowhere else. 
We on the Government side made promises that we would not reduce any existing pensioner benefit. During a period of time when, as members of the Liberal Party, we were challenged with the claim so often negligently and recklessly made by the Australian Labor Party that we would do this or do that, we were challenged in relation to pensioner benefits. I can only conclude that in this instance there has been some unfortunate misjudgment which has led to something which upon reflection appears to us in a House of review to be a clear breach of a promise and undertaking given, that is, that we would not reduce any existing benefit. If the proposal were to supplement the funeral benefit by something that was a better alternative then I would be happy to support it. In the absence of any such alternative I think that in the interests of the people who raised pension issues during the election campaign, the people in elderly citizens clubs who asked questions at public meetings, the people generally of the State I represent and the people of Australia who were interested in this matter, we should not support the withdrawal of this benefit. 

 Senator Missen has outlined an approach which I would regard as a desirable approach to be adopted by a Senate which is a House of review. At least while the Liberal and National Country Parties are in government the Senate can expect to fulfil a role as a House of review. If the caucused Labor Party were in government we would never see the day when any one of its members had the freedom to express a view different from the view expressed in the House of Representatives. At least members of the Liberal and National Country Parties have a freedom to operate in the Senate as members of a House of review. I simply say to those who designed and those who currently make up the Liberal and National Country Parties: Thank God for that freedom; thank God for the opportunity for us to express a view which is different from a view of the House of Representatives, the House of Government, and to ask that this matter be reviewed, which is what we do. I therefore propose to support those who oppose clause 7. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What legislation and/or other administrative authority, at either State or Commonwealth level, enables the closing of States' borders to stop the movement of primary produce and /or animals when an area within one State is declared a health risk, as with the recent outbreak of poultry disease in Victoria. 
How and where are such border closures maintained, (a) on the mainland (b) in respect of Tasmania. 
Who is responsible for their maintenance. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 )  Will the schemes for the improvement of rural arterial roads, urban arterial roads, rural local roads and urban local roads in Tasmania, announced in September  1975  by the then Minister, be continued. 
Will the Minister itemise all projects included in each scheme. 
If there is to be any curtailment of projects, will the Minister list those which are not to proceed immediately, and indicate a projected date for their recommencement. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Government propose to continue with the large investment in the Old Sydney Town project near Gosford, New South Wales; if so, will the terms of the investment be the same as those outlined by the previous Government? 
Will the terms be different, if so, in what way? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What qualifications in law, psychology, sociology, or other discipline, are held by  Mrs Elke  Greig, of Western Australia, in order to justify a grant of $2,000 made to her for a research project on the crime of rape. 
What factors were taken into account in making the grant. 
Will the final report for the project be made available to the public. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
What was the cost of converting Australia's public telephones from 5 cent to 10 cent machines. 
In the first full year of the increase, how much additional revenue is expected over and above that of previous years. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has it been practice to require departments and government agencies to justify their total expenditures, or just any requests for additional or new expenditures, over recent years in respect of budgetary preparations; if so, for how long. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister seen a report of comments by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republic's Ambassador to Australia in August 1 975 that the Soviet Union did not have any significant naval presence in the Indian Ocean. 
Does surveillance by Australia and her allies indicate that Soviet naval presence in the Indian Ocean does and has existed over the last decade. 
What, according to Australian and allied defence authorities, is the number of Soviet ships known to be carrying out naval work and which have been present in the Indian Ocean in each of the last ten years. 
Do any or all of the governments of nations surrounding the Indian Ocean regard the Soviet naval presence as not significant; if so, which nations have held this view. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
Did the new Government obtain an opinion from the Commonwealth Crown Solicitor about the legality or otherwise of terminating the contractual relationships in individual cases under the National Employment and Training System before arrangements were set in train to abolish that Scheme; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Which public servant decreed that there should be no Medibank cover in the provision of an artificial eye for Anthony Vandermolen of Sydney. 
) Is the person who made the decree a qualified doctor. 
If not, does the Minister agree that such questions concerning therapeutic value of appliances require recommendation and decision by qualified doctors. 
Will the Minister list all appliances and artificial aids which are covered by Medibank. 
Will the Minister list all appliances and artificial aids not covered by Medibank. 
I ask the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs: Is it a fact that early reports of a swing to the Australian Labor Party of about 7 per cent in last Saturday's New 
South Wales election have now been shown to be inaccurate and that the swing was in fact a relatively small 3.7 per cent? Is it a fact that the difference arises because the Australian Labor Party stood candidates in 6 more electorates than it did in 1973? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
How many applications from Australian students for entrance to tertiary institutions in Australia for the 1 976 academic year were rejected. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Has the Minister seen a report of the wanton vandalism on Sydney's 'Big Yellow Magic Bus', an old doubledecker bus which toured the inner areas of Sydney. 
Has any approach been made to the Minister for assistance in the funding of a similar vehicle as a replacement; if so, will she give consideration to providing funds. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Did the former Minister for Transport, the  Hon.  Charles Jones, M.P. say in 1972 that a Labor Government would on assuming office get '. . . the Minister to direct TAA to reduce its fares'. 
On what occasions between 3 December 1972 and 1 1 November 1975 did Trans-Australia Airlines reduce its fares. 
On what occasions between 3 December 1972 and 1 1 November 1975 did Trans-Australia Airlines reduce its fares at the instigation of Minister. 
For what routes and to what extent were TransAustralia Airlines' fares reduced between 3 December 1972 and 1 1 November 1975. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Treasurer list all of the schemes under which persons who are not employed by the Commonwealth Public Service or a Commonwealth instrumentality are able to receive a regular income from the public purse. 
For which of these schemes can the body paying the income have access under the Income Tax Assessment Act to information in the Taxation Office on any individual's tax return. 
If all bodies paying incomes do not have this power, why is it that some do and some do not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Which makes and models of motor vehicles are being considered for exclusion from Australia because of proposed modifications to Australian Design Rules. 
Does the Minister's Department take factors of primary safety into account in making determinations, or are secondary safety features the only criteria upon which decisions are made. 
Is it possible for a vehicle with exceptional primary safety but poor secondary safety features to be excluded from registration in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) What tertiary institutions in Australia offer courses specifically in the various aspects of tourism. 
What are those courses and where are they available. 
3 ) What formal qualifications result. 
What are the entry requirements. 
5 ) What private and public scholarships or other forms of assistance are available to students undertaking such courses. 
What form do they take. 
Which bodies offer such scholarships or assistance. 
What scholarships or assistance are available to Australian students for overseas courses. 
Which institutions are they available at. 
10) What form do they take. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Which banks in Australia offer their staff reduced interest for the purchase of a first home. 
) Which banks enforce different rates of (a) interest and (b) reduced interest for the purchase of a first home as between male and female staff members. 
What is the differential as between males and females. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware of any efforts to recruit, in Australia, mercenaries for military activities in Africa; if so, have any organisations sought recruits in Australia over recent months. 
Are any such organisations operating in Australia; if so, what are their names and where are they located. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
Will the Minister request the Postal Commission to reintroduce the opening of post offices on Saturday mornings so long as it is justified on a cost benefit basis for the convenience of the public generally and particularly for families where both parents work and for reasons of stimulating an increase in business. 
Will the Minister ascertain from the Commission what, specifically, is preventing postal employees from working on a roster basis on Saturday mornings with time off in lieu during the week, as is the practice of thousands of other Australians in essential industries. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Broadcasting Commission recently made a decision to cease supplying to the public, free of cost, transcripts of its radio and television programs. 
If so, will the Australian Broadcasting Commission now supply such transcripts to interested persons for a fee, as many Tasmanians keenly interested in public affairs wish to see the service maintained. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. It follows a question asked earlier today by  Senator Jessop  regarding shipbuilding in Australia. I refer to the fact that earlier this year I raised the question, and the Minister undertook to obtain some information. By way of brief explanation I should indicate that, having particular concern for the development and expansion of the fishing industry in Tasmania, I would like to obtain the earliest possible answer as to whether the Industries Assistance Commission reference is likely to be completed, as it may lead to the bringing down of the subsidy of 25 per cent to vessels between 70 feet and 50 feet in length. 

 -Unlike Senator Douglas Mcclelland, I wish to raise certain matters for clarification whilst, at the same time, indicating my total support for the Bill, the concept which is behind it and what it sets out to achieve. I wish to ask the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  whether he will place on the record some clarification of the meaning which is intended as a matter of policy in relation to the definition of local government authority.  Senator Douglas  McClelland has already read out clause 4 of the Bill. I do not propose to repeat it, but it does raise the possibility that local government authorities could include bodies such as the Melbourne Metropolitan Board of Works, the Hydro-Electric Commission in Tasmania or other bodies in the various States of Australia. I have no doubt that it is not intended that that type of body should be included within the provisions of this type of legislation. I feel that it would be helpful if the Minister could elaborate on that area if he feels that he would like to, either now or at some later stage. 
I wish to refer to a specific aspect of this Bill, again for the purpose of clarification. Clause 8 provides for what will become the new section 1 7, and subsection (2) of that section states: 
In sub-section ( 1 ), a reference to a grant of assistance to a State for local government purposes shall be read as a reference to a grant of moneys to the State for the purpose of being applied by the State in payments to local government authorities situated in the State, or by way of expenditure for purposes declared by the regulations to be purposes to which this sub-section applies. 
I emphasise the words 'declared by the regulations' and I go back to the matters which  Senator Wright  and I particularly raised in relation to clause  4  of the Bill and to the new definition of local government authority'. It becomes a matter of some concern to the members of the Australian Council of Local Government Associations to ensure that from a policy point of view there is no intention that the regulations should do other than is suggested in the Minister's second reading speech. In relation to this clause the Minister stated: 
Clause 8 repeals sections 17 and 18 and substitutes a new section 17 which provides for the Minister to refer to the Commission matters relating to the provision of assistance to the States for local government purposes, as distinct from matters relating to the provision of other assistance to the States. It also defines 'assistance to a State for local government purposes' in such a way as to comprehend the unincorporated areas in some States where local government-type services are not provided by the State government - 
-I am sorry, yes, are provided by the State Government and are not provided by a local government authority because there is not one constituted for that area. I thank  Senator Douglas  McClelland. Many of the local government authorities in Australia believe, from bitter experience- and it certainly seems to me that they have grounds for this belief- that they have not always had passed on to them in full by State governments amounts of money which were intended to be used for local government purposes and which were made available by the Commonwealth. The States have tended to charge relatively high administration or other sorts of fees which come out of the amounts of money intended to be made available to local government. I understand that it has been indicated by one State that when the new scheme comes into operation it is anticipating being able to purloin some  15  per cent on the way through for its own purposes to cover its cost of administration. I am sure the Minister will be able to confirm that, so far as the Commonwealth is concerned, that would not be looked upon with any degree of approval or support. As I understand it, that approach is an indication that old practices die hard. 
When one looks at proposed section  17(2)  one sees that it is very much wider than the terms of the Minister's second reading speech. While I understand that the Australian Council of Local Government Associations has no quarrel whatsoever with the intentions set out in the Minister's speech, it is concerned that because of the wideness of the proposed sub-section there might at some future date be a misuse or an extension beyond the purpose for which the subsection is said to be necessary in the Minister's second reading speech. I am assured that there are considerable difficulties in drafting a section which would limit the purpose to the words used in the Minister's speech. Clearly, what is intended is to provide for the manner in which a State can give to an area which has no elected local government authority the services which normally would be provided by a local government authority if one existed, and to provide no further. In other words, it is not intended that at some future date a State should be able to say that under this section it proposes to have its own electricity authority or its metropolitan boards of works or whatever it may be funded out of moneys which were intended to be made available to local government bodies. 
This is a matter where, had it been possible readily to amend the Act to make even clearer the Government's policy intention, I would have been suggesting strongly that that course be followed, but I am satisfied that there are difficulties in drafting such an amendment. I therefore seek from the Minister confirmation that my understanding is correct and that, should there be an attempt at some future date by some future government to make regulations- after all, it is that same regulation making power that is being given- which would enable a State to syphon off some of the funds for purposes other than the simple purpose of providing local government type services in an area where there is no local government authority, then other local government authorities will have available this debate to raise the question of whether any such regulation should be allowed through this chamber. I trust that the Minister will be able to clarify the matter and give that assurance. 
-I wish to congratulate  Senator Grimes  on the speech which he has just given to members of this chamber. I believe that he has covered a lot of the considerations involved in this matter very well and very accurately. I do not wish to delay the Senate by repeating them. I believe that he has shown us here tonight the same commendable approach that he has shown right throughout to the achievement of something to the benefit of Australia, to the benefit of Tasmania and to the benefit of an area of Tasmania. I join with him in saying that there are some who work to achieve and some who work to achieve nothing more than the maximum of publicity and the minimum of getting on with the job. 
I take the opportunity to commend  Senator Grimes  for his part in ensuring that there was achievement. I am particularly pleased to be able to do so because  Senator Grimes  is not originally a Tasmanian, so does not have that inbuilt maritime tradition. 
Inborn, I am sorry. Tasmania has a proud maritime history. It probably has a higher percentage of its people associated with the sea than any other State has. It is, of course, the south island of Australia. As was once observed by one of the Ministers in this chamber, being an island it is surrounded by water. That is well known, but it does happen to be water which includes Bass Strait which carries the heaviest daily concentration of shipping of any seaway in Australia. It also does happen to have very good fishing grounds around its coastline. I believe that it is an ideal place, from an historical point of view, from a current usage point of view and from a facilities point of view for the establishment of this  maritime  college which, as has been mentioned, is something which has been talked about for a long time and which at last is to become a reality. It has been a gleam in the eye of many people for many years. I would just take the opportunity to congratulate anyone who has been associated with converting the gleam in the eye into the impending reality. The passage of this Bill will bring the reality so much closer. 
It is important that we get on with the job. The maritime college is of importance in that it will provide the services outlined both by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in his second reading speech and by  Senator Grimes.  The college is of importance to the development of the area of Launceston as a centre of learning- that is, its association with the College of Advanced Education- and the opportunity that presents to the balanced development of educational opportunities for the State of Tasmania. One of the important aspects of this matter is that, irrespective of whether the full Karmel report in relation to the development of colleges of advanced education in Tasmania is implemented exactly as recommended, the establishment of this maritime college will assist in enabling the much earlier creation of a suitable college of advanced education or tertiary educational institution in the third region of Tasmania- the one which is not currently served, namely, the north west coast of Tasmania. I see the establishment of the college as an important part of the way in which the educational opportunities of all of the people of Tasmania can be enhanced, whilst at the same time the interests of the whole of Australia are being enhanced by the provision of the training opportunities which are to be made available by this maritime college. 
I look forward to the appointment of a planning committee to get on with the job and, as soon as possible, to the lie being given to those who, for their own publicity purposes, have been suggesting that in some way this project was not likely to go ahead. I know full well that the Minister has given assurances already on a number of occasions that the project is going ahead, that its completion is planned in the next 3 years from this year, and that there is no doubt at all that it is proceeding. The very fact that this Bill has been brought on for debate at this stage when there is a lot of urgent legislation to which priority could otherwise have been given; the fact that it was one of the very early Bills introduced after the change of government; the fact that it has been pushed forward to completion in this chamber, give the lie completely to those who suggested that this project would not be pursued as soon as possible. 
I simply summarise by saying that, although there are many aspects of training which I think it would be useful to debate, we are by means of this Bill setting up a situation in which a planning committee can prepare recommendations. I look forward to debating in more detail some of those aspects when the report is available. In the interests of ensuring that we get this matter under way as soon as possible, I am curtailing my remarks tonight. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Broadcasting Control Board during the month before the 1975 Federal election issue a directive to all radio and television stations, both commercial and government, which said that all decisions regarding political material were to be made by news editors and not by management; if so, what is the text of the directive. 
2 ) When was it made. 
Who was responsible for the issue of the directive. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice: 
1 ) When was the last occasion the Commonwealth Public Service Board reviewed and reported on the suitability or otherwise of maintaining an upper age limit of 65 years for public servants. 
To whom did the Board report. 
From whom did the Board receive submissions beyond staff of the Board itself. 
In summary'- what did the Report say. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) How many and which trade unions in Australia enforce compulsory membership for all those persons who work in particular industries. 
Which trade unions are known to be affiliated with and, therefore, make financial contributions to various political parties and, in each case, with which parties are they affiliated, and to which parties do they make financial contributions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
Did the former Government obtain an opinion from the Commonwealth Crown Solicitor about the legality or otherwise of terminating the contractual relationships in individual projects under the Regional Employment Development Scheme before arrangements were set in train to abolish that Scheme; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
When can  Senator Rae  expect an answer to Senate Question No. 298 concerning the legality of abolishing the National Employment and Training System. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the total number of new departments, agencies, commissions and other bodies created by the Labor Government between December 1972 and December 1975. 
What were these bodies. 
Which of these bodies duplicated functions undertaken by either Federal, State or local bodies. 
What number of employees did they employ in each of the three years. 
What was the total costs of each such body in each of the three years. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) What companies or firms manufacture or assemble reeltoreel tape recorders in Australia. 
What brands of tape recorders are manufactured or assembled by each company or firm. 
If the answers to (1) and (2) are nil, are there any import quotas or tariffs imposed on these products; if so. what is the justification for their imposition. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
When can  Senator Rae  expect an answer to Senate Question No. 299 concerning the legality of abolishing the Regional Employment Development Scheme. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) What do Australia's Defence Authorities regard as the present optimum number of servicemen and women necessary for the (a) Navy, (b) Army and (c) Royal Australian Air Force. 
What numbers of servicemen and women are presently engaged in the (a) Navy, (b) Army and (c) Royal Australian Air Force. 
What areas in the Defence Force are most urgently in need of recruits. 
What number of positions are presently available in those areas. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) When did the Chicago Office of the Australian Tourist Commission effectively close. 
When did staff last leave the building. 
When was the last contract for the renting of the Commission's premises negotiated and signed. 
For what period and until what date did that contract extend. 
What was the total cost to the Commission of the last rental contract. 
What was the weekly cost of renting the premises in that contract. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons of Australian birth applied for an Australian passport between 1972 and 1975 and were not granted one. 
How many of those so denied were given full, complete, and accurate reasons for the rejection of their application. 
How many Australian citizens had their passports withdrawn during the same period. 
How many of those persons referred to in (3) were given full complete and accurate reasons for the withdrawal. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the beautiful, historical, and architecturally important Customs House in Launceston being damaged as a result of foundation failure. 
Have proposals for the work necessary to repair the foundations been deferred. 
Will the Minister indicate when this increasingly urgent work will be undertaken. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What percentage of all Trans-Australia Airlines tickets are sold directly by the airline. 
What approximate percentage of all the Airlines' tickets are sold by its agents. 
On what accounting basis, in terms of alleged cost penalties, has the Airline declined to accept bankcards. 
Is the charge to the retailer for bankcards, 2 W per cent of the total cost of the goods or services? If not, what is the charge. 
Does the Airline pay travel agents approximately 10 per cent of the cost to the passenger of tickets when such agents sell tickets for the Airline? If not, what is the range of the percentages paid to travel agents. 
Do such agency costs to the Airline fare exceed the costs of penalties of over the counter bankcard sales of passenger tickets? If so, what is the approximate margin of difference. 
If the answer to 6 is in the affirmative, does this indicate that the Airline is failing to offer passengers a service that literally thousands of other businesses can easily and probably operate. 
Will the Minister now request the Airline to treat bankcards in the same way as personal cheques for the convenience of bankcards. 
Does the Commonwealth Bank offer bankcards to its customers. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) What facilities are available for the purchase of postage stamps at Tullamarine Airport, Melbourne. 
) Where in the terminal building are stamp vending machines located. 
3 ) Can 1 8c stamps be purchased from these machines. 
If not, will arrangements be made to install machines which will dispense 1 8c stamps. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Are figures available showing what percentage of the Australian population has been aged between eighteen and thirty years for each of the last five years; if so, what is the percentage. 
Are figures available showing what percentage of the jurors hearing cases under Commonwealth jurisdiction for each of the last five years have been in the eighteen to thirty age group. 
Irrespective of the answers to (1) and (2) above, are younger people seldom called for jury service and is this as a result of a specific and, if so, what policy direction. 
Can the Minister for Industry and Commerce indicate the Government's plans for the long term future of the textile industry in Australia? If the Minister is not in a position to do so at the moment, can he indicate when he may be able to do so? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science. Is it a fact that very strong submissions have been made to the Minister from the Tasmanian Professional Fishermen's Association, from yacht clubs in Tasmania and other organisations for the restoration, for safety reasons, of the coastal weather reports? Will he consider restoring these important services, at least in Tasmania, pending the conduct of the current total review of the provision of all meteorological services generally in Australia? 
I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Maunsell)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 - Senator Cavanagh has just resumed his seat. During his speech he referred to a number of members of the Liberal and National Country parties, claiming to quote statements which they had made and summing up by saying that they constituted 10 members who are publicly open in their condemnation of this Government. That statement was based upon something which he claimed I had written. 
In that particular article my comments were directed primarily towards the absurdity of a national strike on a matter which was complicated, which at the time could not be understood because then the relevant rates for Medibank and the private health funds had not been published and it was extremely difficult for members of the public to be able to understand. That was the sense of the article- the absurdity of having a national strike on that sort of matter. There was certainly no condemnation, as  Senator Cavanagh  described it, of this Government. I wish to refute the suggestion that I was in any way condemning the Government in that article to which reference was made. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Who is responsible for the care and custody of children, in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, waiting to be adopted. 
Where are such children cared for. 
How many children have been adopted in each of the States and Territories during each of the last five years. 
How many parents or family units offered themselves as adoptive parents in the same categories during the same period. 
5 ) How many children were not adopted during the same period. 
Why were they not adopted. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) Have any endeavours been made to sub-let the premises which were vacated by the Australian Tourist Commission in Chicago. 
If the answer to (1) is in the affirmative, have they been successful? If so, what are the terms? 
Have any endeavours been made to terminate the lease? If so, (a) have they been successful, and (b) upon what terms. 
If it is not possible to sub-let the premises or terminate the lease, are any steps being taken to re-open the office to obtain some value, even if it is with a minimum number of staff. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Of each of the income schemes referred to in Senate Question No. 109, on how many occasions during each of the past three years and under which particular schemes has information been given by the Australian Taxation Office to the Department or organisation administering each such system. 
Is it contradictory and discriminatory to have a bond of secrecy on the Australian Taxation Office for some taxpayers on the movement of information out of that Office but not for others; if not, why not. 
What is the criteria used to determine the non-secrecy of confidential information on taxpayers held in the Australian Taxation Office. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
Did the Australian Government own any, and if so, what buildings and land in Saigon at the time of the conquest by North Vietnam. 
If the answer to 1. is in the affirmative, what has happened since in relation to any such property and in particular what has happened to the (a) occupation, and (b) ownership thereof. 
Did the South Vietnamese Government own any, and if so, what land and buildings in Australia at the time referred to in 1. above. 
If the answer to 3. is in the affirmative, what has happened since in relation to any such property and in particular what has happened to the (a) occupation, and (b) ownership thereof. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Government Publications and Inquiry telephone service, formerly contactable on Canberra 48 8640, been discontinued. 
Have the parallel services in each of the other capital cities been discontinued; if so, what is the reason in each case. 
If cost saving is the reason, what is the saving in each case. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister yet received the sample survey by the Victorian Universities Admission Centre referred to in the answer to Senate Question No. 1 IS. 
If the answer to ( 1 ) is in the negative, when will it be available to the Minister. 
3 ) If the answer to ( 1 ) is in the affirmative, will the Minister now answer Senate Question No. 1 15 on the basis of the survey, incorporating in his answer its details. 
Can the Minister for Education indicate to the Senate the progress being made in relation to the establishment of the Interim Council for the Australian Maritime College to be situated at Launceston in Tasmania? 
I ask the Minister for Science: Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation Dairy Research Laboratory has just announced that it has developed a process known as UHT, that is ultra-high temperature, for preserving milk? Does this enable milk to be kept without refrigeration for up to 6 months? Further, in what way does this development differ from the UHT milk produced for at least the last 5 years by Bakers Milk in Tasmania? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Is it a fact that approval was recently given by the Minister and the Government for a bulk carrier to be built in Japan for Bulkships Ltd, an Australian shipping company? Is it a fact that shortly thereafter Bulkships Ltd entered into a contract to have the ship built in Australia by Carrington Slipways Pty Ltd at a price very much in excess of that quoted by the Japanese shipyard? Was that in any way as a result of any action by the Government in either withdrawing or making subject to conditions the approval which was given, or was it totally at the choice of the Australian company, Bulkships Ltd. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to the mid-year statement in which it was announced that a freight equalisation scheme would be introduced for Tasmania and to the fact that the northbound freight equalisation scheme is in operation already. Can the Minister indicate to the Senate when the other part of the scheme- that is, the southbound freight equalisation scheme- is likely to be able to be implemented? 
I preface my question to the Minister for Science by referring to the numerous questions, telegrams, letters and detailed submissions which I have asked, sent or made in relation to the urgent matter of the restoration of the coastal weather reports to marine radio broadcasts for the benefit and safety of Tasmanian fishermen and other mariners. I refer also to the fact that next week the Tasmanian Professional Fishermen's Association's annual conference is to be held. I am sure that its members would like to have some information in relation to this matter. Is the Minister yet in a position to reply to my proposition that, pending the completion of the Bureau of Meteorology study of meteorological services and reports, these particular reports which were withdrawn by the Labor Government be reinstated? 
asked the Minister for Science the following question without notice on 16 September 1976: 
Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation Dairy Research Laboratory has just announced that it has developed a process known at UHT, that is ultra-high temperature, for preserving milk? Does this enable milk to be kept without refrigeration for up to 6 months? Further, in what way does this development differ from the UHT milk produced for at least the last 5 years by Bakers Milk in Tasmania? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport: Has the question of the siting of the proposed Omega station on Macquarie Island been considered? If it has been considered why is the site regarded as unsuitable? Is it solely because that island is partnotwithstanding the fact that it is some 9S0 miles south-east of Tasmania- of the State of Tasmania? Is it true that the State Labor Government in Tasmania- notwithstanding the general acceptance of the report of the all party committee of this Parliament which investigated the question of an Omega station in Australiaremains blindly opposed to the siting of an Omega station anywhere within the State of Tasmania? 

 -Mr President, I shall be very brief. Two of the reports that were tabled yesterday- the report of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board and the annual report of the Prices Justification Tribunal- exhibited a trend to which I believe attention should be drawn. The reports were presented on 5 October this year, on 30 September last year and on 19 September the year before. There is a tendency for a number of these reports to be presented later and later each year making it more and more difficult for those honourable senators who are interested in matters contained in those reports in relation to the Estimates committees to be able to have those reports to take into account when preparing for the examination of the Estimates. I simply take the opportunity to draw attention to the fact that there is a trend which should be stopped and reversed so that the Senate has the benefit of those annual reports when it is dealing with the Estimates in September or early in October each year. 
I want to clarify finally what still appears to be some confusion so far as  Senator Harradine  and the Australian Labor Party are concerned. Whilst the Opposition is apparently supporting  Senator Harradine  's motion and recognising the importance of allowing him to speak on the situation in Tasmania, it is apparently doing so with a degree of hypocrisy in that it is not prepared to make way for him to participate in the debate by any other means. I wonder whether the genuineness or otherwise of its support of his motion might be determined by allowing him to speak at an appropriate stage in the debate. If the motion fans at this stage, I wonder whether the Opposition would not then be committed to allowing him to speak by making way for him at an appropriate stage. I hope and trust that it will so that it can have the opportunity of hearing him speak of the seriousness of the situation in Tasmania. If  Senator Harradine  speaks perhaps he should give some thought to seeking to change the terms of the matter of urgency because in my view the matter of urgency should read: "The failure of the State Labor Government in Tasmania to rectify the critical unemployment situation in that State, an opportunity it had but refused to take in its recent State Budget'. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment, Housing and Community Development indicate whether any, and if so what, inquiry or investigation into the Australian Government's role in and support for sport is proceeding? Has the situation changed since the inquiry which was announced- by the Press, I felt, rather than by the Governmentshortly after the Olympic Games? In particular, has the Government decided to pay any particular regard to the numerous inquiries and reports which are already available in this field? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport: Has his attention been drawn to the concern which has been expressed by some large scale manufacturers in Tasmania with regard to what is seen as a delay in the implementation of the second part of the Tasmanian-Victorian freight equalisation scheme? If his attention has been drawn to that, can the Minister explain the cause of what is seen as a delay in the implementation of that part of the scheme? How is the further part of the scheme progressing? When is it likely to be implemented? 
I bring up the report from Estimates Committee F, together with the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to make a brief statement in relation to the report. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I would like to read to the Senate part of the report and to make just one or two comments in relation to it. Paragraph 5 of the Committee's report states: 
During its private deliberations, the question of the general effectiveness of the scrutiny function of Senate Estimates Committees was raised. 
The Committee believes that Estimates Committees have since their establishment, as miniature Committees of the Whole, played an important role in scrutinising proposed estimates of expenditure. However, because of the intermittent nature of their operations and with the increasing complexity of government administration, particularly during the past few years, the Committees have not been able to fully and effectively scrutinise proposed expenditures. We believe that this can be overcome by continuous research both by members and appropriate staff. 
The Committee agrees with the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System that the scrutiny function of Estimates Committees could be enhanced and made more effective by providing them with both a full time function and full time staff. 
The Committee recommends that Estimates Committees, as well as conducting the usual examination of Annual and Additional Estimates, be empowered to engage in a total and continuing examination of Special Appropriations because of the magnitude of such expenditures, which hitherto have never been subjected to the same degree of scrutiny as has been the case with the Annual and Additional Estimates which have been examined, often in minute detail by past Estimates Committees. 
The Senate's attention is particularly drawn to the fact that the sum of the Special Appropriations in I975-76 ($1 1,424,350,000) was 36 per cent greater than for Appropriation Bills (Nos 1-4) 1975-76 ($8,288,738,000) and the Advance to the Treasurer ($69,077,000). To formally refer Special Appropriations to the Estimates Committees would, the Committee considers, enable the Senate to maintain a constant, better and wider surveillance in this area of expenditure from the public purse. 
The Committee further recommends that Estimates Committees be empowered to maintain a total and continuing examination of Government funded authorities which are not Departments of State. The Committee supports the observation of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System at page 5 1 of its Report. This course could be effected . . . 'without prejudice to the right of the [proposed] House of Representatives Public Administration 
Committee to scrutinise the financial arrangements of statutory and other government authorities. '. This view strongly accords with that of the Senate which resolved on 9 December 1971: 
That unless the Parliament has expressly provided otherwise, there is no area of expenditure of public funds by Statutory Authorities which cannot be examined by Parliament or its Committees, and in this regard confirms the opinion expressed in the Report to the Senate by Estimates Committee B, viz.- 'The Committee is of the opinion that whilst it may be argued that these bodies are not accountable through the responsible Minister of State to Parliament for day to day operations, Statutory Corporations may be called to account by Parliament itself at any time and that there are no areas of expenditure of public funds where these corporations have a discretion to withhold details or explanations from Parliament or its Committees unless the Parliament has expressly provided otherwise '. '. 
This Resolution was re-affirmed in a unanimous resolution of the Senate on 23 October 1974. 
The Committee acknowledges that the foregoing recommendations and observations may require a change in the Resolution which appointed Estimates Committees, but notes that such a wider and on-going role for Estimates Committees would, in general terms, be in line with the observations made in the Report of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System at paragraph 179, namely: 
The scrutiny function of the Estimates Committees could be enhanced by providing them with a full time function and full time staff'. 
That is the part of the report of Estimates Committee F which I wished to quote. Having done that, I wish to emphasise that this huge relatively unscrutinised area of government expenditure, an area which increasingly has taken itself out of the purview and scrutiny of the Parliament, involves a very large expenditure- $ 1 11/2 billion worth of expenditure- of taxpayers' funds in respect of which the Parliament has been steadily departing from its duty to scrutinise on behalf of the people. 
I refer to the previously expressed attitude of this Senate in relation to the importance of the investigation of this area of expenditure and the fulfilment of the Senate's role in effecting that scrutiny. I emphasise the importance of the role of the Parliament in continuing as a day-to-day operation, with sufficient backup support to enable it to do so efficiently, to scrutinise the Executive and its day to day affairs. Therefore, I strongly support the report of this committee as a further development of the role of the Senate. During the past 10 years or so I believe the role of the Parliament has been substantially lifted by the Senate, in the Australian parliamentary democracy. I believe that this is a further function which is now due- if not overdue- for development so far as the Australian Parliament is concerned and so far as the role of the Senate within the Parliament is concerned. It is therefore  with great pleasure on behalf of that committeethe whole of the committee has discussed this matter- that I take this opportunity to make a statement. 
By way of preface I indicate that I wish to ask a question of 2 Ministers in respect of their various responsibilities as Minister for Administrative Services and Minister for Science, in respect of a particular matter. I ask that each give an answer to the question. I ask: Has the Ministers' attention been drawn to a Press report of a statement by the Premier of Tasmania,  Mr Neilson,  claiming that plans for the Antarctic Division Hobart base have been pigeon-holed? Is it a fact that the alternative sites were inspected by the Minister for Administrative Services last week? Is the matter being actively pursued? Was the Premier's claim a gross misrepresentation and a mischievous attempt to create uncertainty where none exists? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the total quantity of butter exported from Australia during the years 1974-75 and 1975-76. 
To which countries and in what quantities was the butter sold. 
What was the lowest price received from export markets for Australian butter during the same period and what quantities were sold overseas, at that lowest price and to which countries was it sold. 
What was the total quantity of cheese exported from Australia during the years 1974-75 and 1975-76. 
To which countries and in what quantities was the cheese sold. 
What was the lowest price received from export markets for Australian cheese during the same period and what quantities were sold at that lowest price, and to which countries were these quantities sold. 
What was the total quantity of skim milk powder exported from Australia during the years 1974-75 and 1975-76. 
To which countries and in what quantities was the skim milk powder sold. 
What was the lowest price received from export markets for Australian skim milk powder during the same period and what quantities were sold at that lowest price and to which countries were these quantities sold. 
For the same period what percentage of total Australian production of butter, cheese and slum milk powder was (a) consumed in Australia, (b) sent overseas, and (c) sold overseas commercially. 
For the same period can the Minister detail the (a) quantities, (b) commercial value, and (c) receiving countries for quantities of the abovementioned products sent from Australia but not purchased overseas, for example, quantities sent in the form of foreign aid. 
-This debate, I believe, may be divided into 2 parts. Firstly, it relates to the Tasmanian Government's belated recognition of its obligation to take some steps to relieve unemployment in Tasmaniaunemployment in the State which suffers from the highest rate of unemployment in Australia. The second question is whether the measures could and should be applied Commonwealthwide in the other States. It is obvious that the State Premier,  Mr Neilson,  has at last gathered the courage to face the people. This plan is nothing more than an election gimmick. It has become increasingly obvious that what has happened is that the plans we have all known about for some time and which have been going ahead to prepare for an election on 4 December have now been taken to the stage where  Mr Neilson  had to find an issue, had to find something that might make him look a little bit more like a competent Premier and less the way he has appeared during his time as Premier of the State. One wonders who thought up this plan. Let us examine that in a moment. 
Let us see where it came from because there is nothing particularly novel and there is nothing particularly Neilsonish about these proposals. It is an election ploy by a desperate Government to pinch from here and to pinch from there, to put up windmills to be tilted at, with a view to being able to distract people from the real truth about Tasmania and the incompetence of the Government which has been administering it for the last 4 years. In fact if one goes back one finds that for 39 out of the last 42 years the State has laboured under a Labor Government. How it has laboured. What has happened? We find that Tasmania now is the State with the lowest trading bank deposits per head of population, the lowest income per head of population, the lowest average weekly earnings per employed male unit, the lowest number of new dwellings completed for any State in Australia- significantly lower than the national average for home ownership- and so on. If one likes to go right through the statistics it will be found that Tasmania has been brought to the stage of being the tail end Charlie of the Australian economy. It is the people who have had control of it for 39 of the past 42 years whom I believe the people of Tasmania will be blaming for what happenednot the Commonwealth Government. 
An attempt was made today by  Senator Wriedt  to suggest that the Commonwealth Government's policies are wrong and that the Commonwealth Government has been recreant in the task for which it was elected, of restoring sane economic management to this country, of reducing inflation to manageable levels and of bringing back employment opportunities. If the Commonwealth were to accept the proposition put forward this afternoon by  Senator Wriedt,  it would be going against the very advice given by the Tasmanian Treasury to the Tasmanian Government and accepted by the Tasmanian Government and published by that Government. I quote from a document called  Tasmanian Economy 1975-76  which was presented by the Honourable W. A. Neilson for the information of members of the Tasmanian Parliament on the occasion of the Budget 1976-77. In fact that Budget was presented on 1 September- just 2 months ago. The statement says: 
However, the only real solution depends on restoration of confidence in the future prosperity of the nation, leading to business expansion and new job opportunities. 
It goes on to talk about what is in effect the Commonwealth Government's approach of reducing the public sector expenditure and being able to create a little stability in the economy and to get the economy moving again. We find it being suggested that this plan, which is merely an election gimmick in Tasmania produced to confuse and bemuse people who will not be confused by it, should be applied throughout Australia. If it were to be applied, it would be to the detriment of the whole country, for reasons which I shall explain further in a moment. 
The State of Tasmania has an uninspiring Premier who leads an uninspired Cabinet. It has been almost devoid of ideas, initiatives and managerial capacity. I am not making this a slinging match; it is important to my speech in explaining what this plan is all about to make these points. I refer back to the tragic history of this present State Government. It is one of bungling and mismanagement. One needs only to mention some of the more notorious things like the Tasmanian Government buying ferries that were unserviceable, sinking ships, and the poor, tragic fiasco of the sinking of the  Blythe Star.  The Tasmanian Government ran such a system that it did not know which way round Tasmania the ship had gone when it left Hobart. It did not even know where to start looking for the ship. Then we have the fiasco involving doctors of the Royal Hobart Hospital and the former Minister for Health,  Mr Farquhar,  who was so piqued because the Premier had bought into an argument which appeared to be going to close the biggest hospital in Tasmania that he resigned. But when he thought of missing out on his black car and his salary he said no, he only meant to resign as Minister for Health; he still wanted to be in the Cabinet. The Premier was weak enough to appoint him to some other ministry. 
The Tasmanian Government has had a history of resignations. More than half of that Cabinet has resigned during the life of the present Government. So the horrible story goes- a story of the last 12 months of deliberately hoarding $4.5m for an election campaign fund. That is really what it boiled down to. The State Government has claimed great credit for ending the year with a surplus of $4.5m. That money, if expended during the past year, and not left as a surplus, would have encouraged employment in Tasmania and provided employment in Tasmania. Many of those who are out of work in that State can thank the Premier of Tasmania for the fact that they did not have work earlier this year. What has happened to that money? The Premier has been going around handing it out in $500, $1000 and $5000 lots to every organisation in the State that wants to hold out its hand for some money just before the election. This money is not being spent in the best interests of the State; it is being spent in the best interests of the Labor Party's election campaign. In that background the Premier introduced his Budget on 1 September 1976. He proclaimed with great selfcongratulation: 
It is with great pride that I introduce what I believe is the best State Budget introduced in the thirty years since I first became a Member of this House. 
It was trumpeted around the country by him that this was the best State Budget in 30 years. It is now in tatters, on his own admission and on his own proposal. The Tasmanian Government is acting directly contrary to the whole basis upon which that Budget was produced and introduced into the House just 2 months ago. The so-called 24 point plan now being proclaimed by the Premier of Tasmania and by  Senator Wriedt  here this afternoon is an admission that that Budget was a bungle, was seriously deficient. The plan is an open admission that far from being the best Budget for 30 years, it may go down as one of the worst. That Budget failed to take any of the possible steps which can be taken by a State to reduce unemployment- the worst' unemployment in Australia. The plan was almost in conflict with the Government's own statements on the Tasmanian economy. I have already cited the fact that the Tasmanian Government itself recognises the importance of the restoration of confidence and the lowering of inflation to provide opportunities for business expansion and new jobs. The 24 point plan goes directly against that budgetary strategy. 
Let us take up the story then from where the Budget was introduced on 1 September. On 2 September, the Leader of the Opposition in Tasmania,  Mr Max  Bingham, replied. He advocated a number of possible and practical measures which could be introduced and which should have been introduced, with a view to overcoming the unemployment situation, which, I remind you,  Mr President,  is the worst in Australia. He pointed out that Tasmania, with its very small economy from the point of view of the total Australian economy with 3 per cent of the population and less than 3 per cent of the national economy, was able to take steps which would not interfere in the national economic management plan of the Commonwealth. These are small steps which could be taken which would make a significant difference in Tasmania if they could have the effect of promoting job opportunities through some encouragement to private enterprise. He suggested that funds were available in the Trust Accounts to enable what, on the face of it, in a separated Budget, would appear to be a deficit. 
One of the other things about discussing Tasmania and its Budget is that unlike Victoria, for instance, it separates its funds and does not bring them together so that what in one section appears to be a deficit is in fact not a deficit at all, of necessity, because it can be covered by other funds in other accounts. What he recommended was an expenditure out of trust moneys, loan moneys, of up to $ 10m. I mentioned, when  Senator Wriedt  alluded to this matter, that the newspapers referred to 'up to $ 15m', picking up an interjection that was made across the chamber in the Tasmanian Parliament from the Labor side of that Parliament suggesting 'Why not $ 1 5m? ' when  Mr Bingham  mentioned $ 10m. The figure was 'up to $10m' so far as he was concerned. He advocated a number of measures with which I will deal in more detail in a moment. The Premier replied that such action would be impossible and irresponsible. I emphasise those words. He said it was both impossible and irresponsible to take the measures advocated by the Leader of the Opposition on 2 September. 
The so-called 24-point plan now takes up those other suggestions made on 2 September by the Leader of the Opposition in Tasmania,  Mr Max  Bingham. It does involve borrowing funds. It does involve the equivalent of a deficit of $2m which the Tasmanian Premier just 2 months ago said was impossible and irresponsible. So there is not a great deal of novelty in the plan. It took up the suggestion made by the Opposition. However, it does prove that what the Opposition in Tasmania said was correct; that is, that the Budget was not a good Budget, that it could have taken steps to help overcome unemployment and that it had failed to do so. The Premier has now acknowledged that his Budget is in tatters and that he needs to take such steps. It proves also that he is either ignorant- so ignorant that he does not know the inconsistency between his claims that these steps would be irresponsible and impossible and that what he is now doing is just that- or that he was deceptive when he claimed 2 days ago that the Commonwealth had pigeonholed the Antarctic base in Hobart knowing as he did that the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  and the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  had been in Hobart the week before, inspecting various sites so that the project could proceed. 
Let me refer to what  Senator Wriedt  said this afternoon about this matter. He made mention of the fact that no funds were being approved. That was not what  Senator Webster  said at question time yesterday. What he said was that no funds for the construction were being provided out of his departmental estimates because the next stage was the planning, development and design stage which was being paid for out of funds of the Department of Construction. The attempt by  Senator Wriedt,  perhaps in collusion with  Mr Nielson,  to give a totally false impression about the Antarctic base is to be deprecated. 
As to the sequence of events, on 9 September the Premier of Tasmania,  Mr Neilsen,  replied formally in winding up the Budget debate in that State Parliament. He said there was no way by which the State could cure unemployment. He was excusing himself for his Budget, which had been attacked by the Opposition as doing nothing for unemployment, making no appropriate provision. He said there was nothing the State could do to reduce unemployment effectively and that it was the Commonwealth's responsibility. He is now proudly proclaiming- it is bandied all over the newspapers- his 24-point thrust to provide jobs. It is said that the plan is to reduce Tasmania's unemployment rate which is the highest in the nation. Let us examine this a little further. It is beyond doubt that Tasmania has the greatest need for steps to be taken to reduce unemployment. It is also beyond doubt that what steps are taken in Tasmania are unlikely to have any severe repercussive effects on the rest of Australia, because Tasmania's economy is such a small part of the total economy of Australia. But were all of the States to take steps such as have been advocated in Tasmania the whole budgetary strategy of the Commonwealth for reducing inflation would be in the same sort of tatters as  Mr Neilson  's Budget of 1 September. Nearly half of the plan involves proposals for action and spending by the already embattled Commonwealth Government. After all, let us remember who it is who has been carrying the burden of trying to overcome the inflation and the unemployment which mismanagement by a Labor government from 1972 to 1975 created in this country. It has been the Commonwealth Government trying to battle it out and trying to ensure that a firm and clear Budget strategy is followed through. 
This proposal put forward by  Mr Neilson  and taken up this afternoon by  Senator Wriedt  as something which should be applied Australiawide would totally destroy that budgetary approach. It is also very nice to be able to claim credit for a 24-point plan to overcome unemployment when it is being said: 'But I want somebody else to do half of the things that have to be done'. It is pretty easy to suggest that somebody else should spend money to overcome the problems. This was what  Mr Neilson  was doing. There was no great novelty in any of the things he was suggesting so far as the Commonwealth was concerned. At one time or another it has been suggested by various people and various individuals. I imagine that he had some research officers going through the newspapers and gathering the views together. There was no novelty. 
The next point is to look at what the other half contains. Strangely it contains the measures which the Liberal Opposition in Tasmania proposed on 2 September in the Budget debate. It proposed payroll tax cuts and the Government is going to make them, not to the extent that perhaps it should do but in a way which it is believed by the Liberal Opposition in the State will enable encouragement to be given for the provision of employment opportunities by businesses in Tasmania. It is a way of encouraging the private sector to stimulate employment. Another matter that was proposed by the Opposition was that money should be made available for private housing. The Tasmanian Government is letting out a few Housing Department contracts to private contractors, claiming that this will stimulate the growth of employment opportunities. In fact it would have been much better, much quicker and much more effective if the Tasmanian Government had let out money for people to employ builders to construct their houses for them. A lot more could happen a lot more quickly by that means but this at least is something. It was taking up one more of the Liberal Opposition's suggestions about what should have been done in the 1 September Budget. 
For some months now the Liberal Opposition in Tasmania has been suggesting that substantial help is necessary for primary industry in Tasmania, particularly the dairying industry and the fruit industry. The State Government did not recognise that need in the Budget it brought down on 1 September. But after more and more probing by the Opposition the Government was eventually embarrassed and agreed that it would take some steps, and has done so in the 24-point plan as part of a way to create employment in Tasmania. It is a step which was obvious and should have been taken months ago by a government which has been recreant to its duty to look after the interests of people such as those hard hit in the dairying industry and fruit industry in that State. 
There was a further proposal by the Opposition in Tasmania for the abolition of death duties on estates transmitted between spouses. 
The State Government, for reasons which I assume have something to do with its ideology, refused to go that far. That was one of the Opposition's suggestions that it did not take up. The Opposition also suggested that there should be massive increases in intakes into the police training school, into the. national parks and wildlife training service and into other areas where the State has both the need to train people and the facilities to be able to train them. That would have played a part in encouraging employment opportunities in Tasmania. The State Government has decided, belatedly, after prodding by the Opposition, that that is what it will do. But so many of the things it is proposing in further parts of the 24-point plan will have no noticeable effect on employment opportunities in the near future. 
For instance, the proposal with regard to the introduction of intermediate technology to assist small business is a good move, but it is another proposal which has been suggested by the Liberal Opposition in a slightly different way in a policy which has been published for some months. The Labor Party is taking up this proposal but it cannot be said that this will cure unemployment in the foreseeable future. It is a gimmick to call this a 24-point plan to overcome unemployment. It is an admission that the Budget of 1 September was totally deficient in doing what could and should have been done by a State government that was conscious of the need to look after the interests of the people in its State and to use to the maximum the opportunities presented to it to do so. 
The State Government did not see the necessity to take action until it was pointed out in plain terms by a much more intelligent and competent Opposition. This proposal is a rag bag of suggestions as to what others should do for Tasmania.  Mr Neilson  says that the Commonwealth should do a lot of things for Tasmania. It is a rag bag of what the Liberal Opposition in Tasmania has suggested the State Government should do and a few rather feeble measures which the State Government has actually thought of itself. As most of the newspapers have commented, for any degree of success it involves the Commonwealth changing entirely its Budget strategy which has been accepted and supported by the people of Australia who have confidence that this is the way in which we will be able to bring down inflation and create employment opportunities. Just 2 months ago the State Premier said that this rag bag, this 24-point plan, which he now proudly proclaims as his own, was impossible to implement. I think one can judge the credibility of the man putting that forward. It makes it very easy to look to the fact that perhaps after 4 December or after next May or whenever the State election may be held, one of the worst aspects of the unemployment problem which the new Liberal Government will have to consider will be to find some sorts of employment opportunities for a number of members of the State Labor Party who have been sitting in Parliament waiting for the Liberal Party to tell them what they can do by way of producing a Budget. Anything worth while in this plan has been pinched. It demands that the Commonwealth bail the State Government out of the problems it has created in Tasmania to a large extent by its own incompetence over the last 39 years. 

 - Senator Harradine reminds me that one part of the plan is to overcome the problems in the textile industry in Tasmania which the State Government did not create. The Federal Labor Government did that. What has been happening in the State of Tasmania will not be overcome by the 24-point plan put forward by  Mr Neilson,  which has been gathered together from the good ideas put forward by the Opposition, from other ideas which have at some time been put to the Commonwealth by various people throughout this State, and from a couple of ideas which the State Government has managed to think of itself. But it could help. I am sure that if a lot of these measures can be undertaken now- they should have been undertaken earlier- they can reduce to some extent the number of unemployed in Tasmania. What would be better still to reduce the numbers of unemployed in Tasmania would be to change the Government and put people who can really manage and think of their own ideas for economic management of the State into the position where they form a direct government instead of an indirect government, which they have been for most of this year. 
-Taking up what has been said in this chamber to quite some extent about the Estimates Committees and what  Senator Withers  has just said, I should like to join with those who have indicated that there is a great deal of room for further development in relation to the Estimates Committees and their procedures. It is something which needs to be done but done properly. It needs to be considered fully. I think it would be helpful if we could have some specific propositions. As the  Chairman  of Estimates Committee F, when I brought in the Committee's report a few days ago, I made some reference to the recommendations of that Committee. To spell them out in a little more detail, I should like to read to the Senate this afternoon the terms of a motion which could be considered by the Senate as being a way in which we could take the matter a stage further in adopting some of the recommendations made by Estimates Committee F. The motion which could be considered reads: 
That after considering the Report of Estimates Committee F, the Committee of the Senate is of the opinion- 
1 ) That the effectiveness and scrutiny function of Estimates Committees could be enhanced by: 
providing Estimates Committees with both a full time function and some full time staff; 
empowering Estimates Committees, in addition to their examination of the annual Appropriation 
Bills, to engage in a total and continuing examination of Special Appropriations referred to them by the Senate. 
empowering Estimates Committees to maintain a total and continuing examination of Government funded authorities which are not Departments of State. 
That the Resolution of the Senate of 28 April 1976 appointing the Estimates Committees should be so varied. 
That is one way in which the Senate could take this issue a stage further. The major points which Estimates Committee F was making in adopting the recommendations of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System were that there is a need for some continuous role for Estimates Committees and that they have to be supported by some staff, and that the Committees' role has to be expanded so that the area of special appropriations which constitutes about 60 per cent of the total Commonwealth expenditure comes within the purview of the Estimates Committees. At the moment that does not happen. So we have a situation at the moment whereby of the total Budget far less than SO per cent is scrutinised in any way by the Senate Estimates Committees. 
Members of this chamber have expressed their concern many times about the extent to which statutory corporations are virtually not answerable to the Parliament. Some of them are, but many of them are not. Many of them are not examined by anybody except for audit purposes. Whilst audit examination is important it is not the only type of examination which ought to be fulfilled on behalf of the public. I think the type of examination which goes into some sort of questioning of cost benefit and some son of questioning of the application and implementation of policy is desirable. This is one of the things which certainly the expanded role of the Estimates Committees would make possible. So I should just like to adopt the remarks which have been made by those who have been supporting some changed role for the Estimates Committees and suggest that they give consideration to the recommendations of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System and the recommendations of Estimates Committee F in its recent report. They may also like to give some further thought to the type of motion I have outlined here this afternoon. 
I find myself in the somewhat unusual position of wishing to disagree with 2 people who may have been taken to be disagreeing, and to agree with both of them. I believe that what  Senator Baume  had to say tonight was important but, it having been said, I want to support what  Senator Chaney  said about the way in which this chamber should view the overall problem of how to provide a service- an extremely necessary service of legal aid- going beyond the direct provisions of legal advice for court cases but having a role in the evolution of a people into a legal system. How does one provide that service within a budget? 
How does one provide legal aid within a budget? I happen to be perhaps the only person in this place who has run a legal aid system and who had that problem of trying to keep within a budget; of trying to work out how, if a person was on a murder trial, the position could be reconciled. I will just pick figures out of the air. The trial may cost $20,000 if the person pleaded not guilty and $ 1 ,000 for the investigation if he pleaded guilty. I pose the question: Do you ever consider whether you will say 'No'? You draw on a certain set of criteria to consider whether the person is entitled to help, and it builds from there. There is a problem in budgeting in relation to legal aid. 
I would hasten to add that we managed to operate the legal aid service within a budget. But it was difficult. It was made easier only because the legal profession provided most of the services for nothing. Its members received a dividend out of that budget according to what was left to go round. The Aboriginal Legal Aid Service in New South Wales is not operating on that basis. I can understand that with the way the courts operate, the way the legal system has operated and the way the police have operated there can readily be an overdose of enthusiasm to provide legal assistance to Aborigines in New South Wales going beyond the limitations of some arbitrary budget. I do not differ from what  Senator Baume  said about the importance of trying to ensure that people who are dealing with public money do so responsibly and intelligently.  Senator McAuliffe  started to talk about people out in the backblocks who cannot sign their names. That is not the sort of person who is running the New South Wales Aboriginal Legal Aid Service. There is a group of intelligent people, and one, in particular, is a highly intelligent person. I think we need to apply a degree of tolerance and a degree of understanding to this. I think it is appropriate that it was raised, but equally I think it is appropriate that we do not overdo it and that we do not make the most incredible case out of it when what was happening was perhaps one person overdoing something in the interests of a whole people who have been underprivileged in almost every respect so far as the law is concerned for far too long. I would just like to support what  Senator Chaney  said and basically what  Senator Georges  said. By all means let us raise it, by all means let us be aware of it, by all means let us make sure that people who flout the system that is supposed to operate do not get away unchecked; but let us not judge harshly. 
I seek leave to give notice of the other part of a motion of which I gave notice earlier today. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Senate appoint a select committee to inquire into and report upon the following: The circumstances surrounding the operations of the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Company Limited and its associated companies and in particular the nature of assistance from the Commonwealth Government which is both practical and warranted and will alleviate the social and economic dislocation of the Queenstown area of Tasmania. 
I shall also move: 
That the membership and powers of the committee be set out in a subsequent motion. 
I commence by indicating my general support, along with that already indicated by the Leader of the Government in this chamber,  (Senator Withers)  for the general tenor of the urgency motion. It is a matter of urgency and great seriousness. It arises as a result of no fault on the part of the people most directly concerned, that is the people of Queenstown in Tasmania. In the remarks I propose to make I do not want it to be forgotten at any time that I am totally supporting the raising of a concern in relation to this matter as I have done in the past and will continue to do. But I wish to make this point at the start: There appears to be a blatant, cynical attempt by the State Labor Government in Tasmania to make political capital, to gain political kudos out of stunting in relation to the lives and futures of the people of the west coast. So blatant is it that I have no doubt that the amphitheatre-like opencut at Mount Lyell will be renamed the Neilson grandstand. 
If it saved the mine, as  Senator Devitt  says, it would be a good thing, but let us look at the facts. The facts are these: First,  Mr Neilson,  who now expresses his concern, was told on Friday, 29 October, of the impending action to be taken by the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd. He sat on that information for 6 days. The company sat on it too before it eventually got round to telling the Federal Government. When it did tell the Federal Government about it, it did not request any assistance. In fact, it indicated that it wished the closure, to the extent to which it was programmed, to go ahead so it could relieve itself of what it appeared to regard as an unwanted part of the work force. So great was  Mr Neilson  's concern that he sat on the information he had for 6 days, doing nothing but preparing to use it in an election campaign stunt. He did nothing about the real problem, which is the problem of what is to happen to the people to whom reference has been made by  Senator Harradine  and others this afternoon. I regard that as being about as cynical as one can be. 
It is quite obvious that the company believes it can be viable only if it can reduce the work force and that it decided quite some time ago to reduce it by 400 people. It is quite obvious that  Mr Neilson,  the Premier of Tasmania, and the General Manager of the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd,  Mr Sawyer,  have been in close consultation for many months. Notwithstanding an agreement which was made between the Federal and State governments to monitor what was happening at Mount Lyell in case a crisis situation should arise,  Mr Neilson  did nothing during 6 days to inform the Federal Government of his knowledge of what was pending at Mount Lyell.  Senator Harradine  talked about an urgency motion. It is made all the more urgent by the cynicism of  Mr Neilson. 
In the short time available to me let me go on to make some other points. There have been at least 6 occasions on which the honourable member for Braddon,  Mr Ray  Groom, to whom reference has already been made, has had discussions with  Mr Sawyer.  On each of those occasions he was told that there was nothing the Government could do and that the company was not seeking assistance from the Government. The most recent of those discussions was on 23 October. It is suggested by some, in particular it is suggested by  Mr Sawyer,  that the Commonwealth Government has in some way let the company and the people of the west coast down. Yet  Mr Groom  is able to confirm and state the exact times and places of the conversations which he has had repeatedly throughout the year in the course of his job of looking after his electorate of Braddon, in which this west coast area falls. On 23 October, as I mentioned, there was a discussion at which  Mr Groom  was again informed that the company was not asking the Government for anything but that decisions might have to be made depending on what happened with regard to copper prices.  Senator Harradine  said that copper prices had fallen and that they were below $1,000. I do not think he has done his homework in that respect because in fact they are rising. The price is now $ 1 ,045. 
That is what they got down to, but if  Senator Devitt  likes to check the price brought on the London market yesterday he will find that it was $1,045.14, to be exact. The next point I would like to make briefly is that since the current crisis arose no request has been made by the company to the Commonwealth Government. Notwithstanding that, on an Australian Broadcasting Commission program in Tasmania  Mr Sawyer  made a statement which I wish to quote.  His  motives in all of this must be suspect. He has a record of being manager of companies which get into trouble and wind down. He is the one who seems to close them down.  His  record may be regarded as having some significance to the statement he made. It was blatantly political. He said: 
The State Government has done a great job.  Mr Neilson  has shown great interest. I wish I could say the same for the Federal Government. Now we have pressed the Federal Government for assistance on a number of occasions and there is just no consideration forthcoming. 
In answer to that I indicate that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  this afternoon stated in answer to a question that no request for assistance had been made since the crisis arose.  Senator Withers  also referred to this fact. I have mentioned the 6 conversations  Mr Groom  had with  Mr Sawyer.  I ask: Who in those circumstances is playing politics? On Melbourne television  Mr Sawyer  said the problem was entirely one caused by world copper prices and there was nothing the Government could do. Again I ask: Why the difference between the statements? Was it something totally for Tasmanian consumption that  Mr Sawyer  was carrying on with? 
Let us look at the multinational corporation which employs  Mr Sawyer  as General Manager for the Mount Lyell part of its operations. It is owned by Consolidated Goldfields Australia Ltd, which is owned by Consolidated Goldfields 
Ltd of the United Kingdom. It has a controlling interest in Renison Ltd. There is not an inconsiderable degree of concern and even suspicion amongst residents of Queenstown as to what has been going on with this multinational corporation reorganising its affairs perhaps to its best commercial advantage- something which it is entitled to do. In what has been going on with the share sales and the share reorganisation, why has it been so tough and so harsh with some of the shareholders as it has been with a resident of Queenstown, whom I shall not name? He is a retired man with a few shares in Mount Lyell. He was ill with the flu during the period when the share transactions were taking place. As soon as he was better, which from recollection was about 2 days after the closing date for applications for additional shares, he applied to take up his entitlement. He was refused. What did I get from the  Chairman  of the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. when I took up the issue? I was told: 
It is a fact that a number of shareholders for one reason or another failed to meet the initial deadline, and of course their shares which were not taken up were distributed to those shareholders who wished to acquire additional shares. 
I asked for a specific reply. Who got the shares that were forfeited? I have not yet got a reply. I would like to know the answer. 
I am talking about when the reorganisation with the sale of Renison and Queenstown Investments was taking place, together with the buy back of Mount Lyell and all the other transactions which took place. I will not use any more harsh words at this stage. Let me simply indicate that there is far more in relation to this and the operation of the activities on the west coast than so far has been put forward in the Press or in the chamber. In no way am I denying the importance of the people of the west coast or the opportunity of the Mount Lyell company to continue to operate. I will support wholeheartedly any measures that can be taken by the Commonwealth Government. I have played a part in suggesting a number which can be taken, and I hope they will be taken following the discussions which have been taking place this afternoon between the Tasmanian Premier and the Prime Minister. But I regard it as unfortunate when a company starts to play politics in such an obvious way as this company has. I pay tribute to the work which  Mr Ray  Groom has done over the past few days in particular. Following the announcement concerning Mount Lyell he spent 3 days in Tasmania investigating the matter fully and preparing a full report for the Commonwealth Government. Since he became a member of Parliament he has been constantly in touch with the Mount Lyell company. 
I would like to know, for instance, why that company has been pushing so hard the policy of selling to its employees their houses. This is another aspect which is of importance. The company is selling to its employees their houses. In normal circumstances this would be a good thing. But the whole time retrenchments have been steadily taking place and the work force is now down to less than half of what it was not very long ago. Many of the people who have bought the houses have invested their life's savings in them and will now face the risk of losing their life's savings rather than perhaps the company losing its investment in the houses which it has been selling off. Queenstown happens to be a peculiar mining town. Over 70 per cent of the houses there are privately owned. This is just one further aspect of the incredible problem of relocation of retrenched workers if this is to be pursued as policy. Who is going to buy the houses? Are the people to leave, to walk out, to just forfeit their savings? Or will they find themselves in a position where they have no real option but to stay there, residing in their houses and drawing unemployment benefits until such time as the mine can take on further employees again? 
If the attitude which apparently has been displayed by the mine management is any indication, one wonders whether it will ever expand its employment. Why is it that the mine has not sought any government assistance? Why is it that the mine wants to play politics on this issue? Why is it that the mine has been engaging in a number of aspects of reorganisation which at least require some explanation, such as the hedging operations, from which it profited by $8m in 1975 but which have not been explained in the company reports, and the situation whereby it does not pay any mining royalties and pays precious little tax but makes plenty of money? I suppose that that is a good operation. 
As to the future of copper, it is necessary to bear in mind that some 2 million tons of copper is stockpiled around the world- a large part of it held by speculators who are being forced to sell copper which they bought at higher prices, thereby artificially depressing the price of copper on the world markets. How long it will take to sell that 2 million tons of copper is a matter for speculation, but it appears that it will take quite some time. In summary, I express my sympathy and, I am sure, the sympathy of all members of the Liberal and National Country Parties for the individual people of the west coast area who have been affected. We will do what we can to overcome the problem. But the situation will not be helped by grandstanding by  Mr Neilson;  nor will it be helped by political attacks by the general manager of the company. 
I take a little further what  Senator Wright  has been saying and ask the Minister: Is $26m a realistic estimate? I ask this because there was considerable speculation last year- more than 12 months ago- that the cost had risen at that time to about $26m. Because of the way this particular project has been proceeding, I find it hard to imagine that a realistic estimate is not perhaps closer to $30m at this stage. When was the estimate of $26m made? 

 -Mr Chairman, I seek leave to move a motion, a copy of which has been circulated. In fact, it has been circulated twice. I draw the attention of honourable senators to the second circulated copy. That is the motion I seek leave to move. 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to amend the notice of motion standing in my name by leaving out paragraphs (2) and (4) and inserting in lieu thereof the following paragraphs: 
That the Committee consists of six senators, three to be nominated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate, two to be nominated by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, and one independent; if no independent nominates, the position to be filled by a senator to be nominated by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate. 
That the quorum of the Committee be three. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
With reference to Senate Question No. 816 and the answer of the Minister for Administrative Services, what are the principles of international law which applied in this instance. 
What steps have been taken to determine, in accordance with the principles of international law, the question of ownership of the properties in Saigon and Canberra. 
3 ) What further steps remain to be taken to determine the question of ownership. 
What was the (a) cost price, and (b) last established value of each of the properties referred to in the said question and answer. 
Does the Minister for Education agree that the report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties makes some excellent suggestions for action in what has been a relatively neglected area? What steps have been taken by the Minister and his Department to implement any of the recommendations? Further, will the Minister indicate which, if any, of the members of the reconstituted Schools Commission has any particular expertise in this field to replace the expertise previously available through one of the outgoing members, namely,  Mr Desmond  Wood? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. What steps have been or are being taken by the Government with regard to the life assurance industry? In particular, have any steps been taken or are any steps under consideration to implement the Asprey Committee's recommendation regarding review of the method of taxing life assurance officers? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Is the International School of Chiropractic, at Bundoora, Victoria, eligible to receive, and has it in fact received, either directly or indirectly, funding from the Commonwealth. If not, why not. 
Are students enrolled in the College eligible to receive, and have any in fact received, funding from the Commonwealth, either directly or indirectly, since the College commenced conducting courses. If not, why not. 
I wonder whether it would assist if a form of procedure were adopted whereby  Senator Durack  was given special leave to answer the question raised by  Senator Douglas  McClelland before the debate continues. It does seem to me to be potentially relevant to what is said in the debate, the question having been specifically raised. I believe I am probably in order by moving that  Senator Durack  have leave to answer that or alternatively that  Senator Withers  be permitted to answer the question before the debate resumes. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. By way of brief preface I refer to the announcement by the Minister for Transport of his approval for certain freight rate increases by the Australian National Line. They will apply to the Tasmanian runs. I ask the Minister to clarify the situation for the people of Tasmania and to indicate whether the rates applicable under the freight equalisation scheme will be adjusted appropriately immediately upon the introduction of the new ANL rates. If not, will this not destroy the effectiveness of the freight equalisation scheme in achieving its stated purpose? 
I rise to support the speakers who have indicated that this is a matter of grave seriousness to the Senate, to its Standing Orders and to Australia. Standing order 242 follows the Convention debates. The Convention debates spent a great deal of time considering first of all what the Constitution should provide and, secondly, how we should go about amending it. They provided when they came to drawing the Standing Orders that there should be time for debate, time for debate in this chamber as well as in the other chamber where perhaps one could not necessarily expect the same degree of debate to take place, and within the community. Standing order 242 is the means by which the community may be informed of the varying opinions held by senators- not by leaks or statements made outside the Parliament, but by genuine debate within the Parliament and a period for digesting between that debate and the final vote on the matter. That is the point of standing order 242. 
I believe that the matters which we have before us have not been adequately debated in public. Some of them were given consideration in 1974. There was a public debate and at that time the public said no. Now it is proposed to urge that the public should say yes. If members of the public are to say yes they must presumably need some reason to change their recently expressed view.A debate punctuated by a call of the Senate period of 2 1 days, followed by further debate, will give to the community an opportunity to express a view, to form an idea, and perhaps even to help some of the members of this chamber to express their independent view, I trust and hope, as members of the Senate. But no, the proposition put before the Senate a few minutes ago is that we should railroad this matter through in the way it was railroaded through another House without real consideration or debate just last week. 
I acknowledge that it was the subject matter of some debate in 1974 but I emphasise that since 1974 one of the opposing parties, in fact the successful party in the 1974 referendum, apparently has done a full 1 80 degrees about face. That is a matter which surely requires some explanation to the public, some opportunity for the public to be able to react and to understand before the matter is finally disposed of in this chamber. For reasons such as those, for reasons which have been outlined by my colleagues who have already spoken, I believe that this is a time when, as we of the Liberal and National Country Parties argued on a previous attempt by a government to railroad through a proposal for a referendum, there should be a call of the Senate. At that time there were arguments put as to why the Standing Orders should be observed. I adopt the arguments then put forward by my leader and others. There should be a call of the Senate for the very reasons which have been outlined now and which were outlined then. I will support any opposition to abandoning the call of the Senate. 
-As I indicated earlier, I was attempting to assist the Senate to solve a procedural problem by agreeing to defer so that the case could be further elaborated and then answered. I simply wish to proceed with the debate on the subject matter of  Senator Harradine  's motion. It seemed to me to be important for a number of reasons one of which is that there should be the maximum opportunity for the public to hear and understand the debate upon this matter. It is not a matter upon which there is any lack of controversy or lack of confusion on the part of the members of the public who were bombarded by the Liberal and National Country parties as recently as 1974 with a 'no' case in respect of the referendums held then. In relation to the then proposal for simultaneous elections the 'no ' case started off in this way: 
This referendum will make the Senate a rubber stamp of a socialist centralist Labor Government. 
Presumably if that applied then it could well apply this year, in 10 years or whenever it might be. It presumably could apply to a socialist centralist government of any sort. However, what will most confuse the members of the public is what they were told by the Liberal and National Country parties in 1 974, that is, that in putting up the Bill the then Government was being deceitful and that the question they were to vote on did not explain the real proposed law. I am interrupted by an interjection from  Senator Missen  asking what is this I am quoting from. I am quoting from the official 'no ' case prepared - 
Thank you. I shall continue to do so. The reason  Senator Harradine  's motion should be supported is that in my view this is a matter of importance, as has been indicated by the previous speakers. It is a matter upon which I am suggesting there will be very considerable public confusion. I am endeavouring to elaborate some of the reasons which occur to me for the public confusion. I submit that some confusion will arise from the fact that 3 years ago the Government parties which have introduced this Bill campaigned against an identical Bill. I want to quote further from the case they put to the public 3 years ago in support of my argument that the public needs to have the maximum opportunity to hear the debate on this matter which will take place in this chamber. I go on further to quote from the 'no' case presented in 1974 to the electors of Australia. It was stated in 1974 that the referendum question on the Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill 1974 was remarkable for its deceit. The members of the public now will say that an explanation is necessary to tell them why the position has changed since 1 974 if it is a Bill in identical terms. 
I go on to refer to one more part of the 'no' case for the same reason that I have referred to others. It was stated in 1974: 
The Government refuses to tell you the real effect of its proposed law to juggle with the terms of office of the senators in order to make the Senate a rubber stamp of the House of Representatives. Such a dangerous law would vitally affect the parliamentary system. It would cut out the constitutional independence of the Senate and open the way for progressive reduction of its powers. 
When a party, a government, a group of parties, whatever it may be, has stated that but 3 years ago and now is putting to the people that they should have a different view, then the people obviously need the maximum opportunity to understand why, and debate in this chamber is the most ordered and responsible manner in which that view can be presented. Should it be a slanging match on television? Should it be by way of interruption by  Senator Durack  while I am speaking? Should it be by way of proper debate, speaking one after the other in the chamber under the ordered control of you,  Mr President,  and the Standing Orders? I submit that it should be the latter. I go on to say that I think  Senator Wright  made an important point when he said that this is no ordinary matter which can be debated and nobody cares very much. This is a matter upon which people have to vote, and the honourable senator made an important point. An interjection was made that only one per cent of the people may be listening. That may be so, but that is one per cent of the community who would be better informed immediately from listening to the debate. However, I dispute those figures. I think it is understood from the surveys which are conducted that the Parliament does have a substantially higher rating than one per cent. 
Thank you; it is 4 1/2 per cent. That is probably about double the number of people who read editorials in newspapers, and editorials are generally regarded as being of significant importance in opinion making in the community. They tend to influence the opinion makers who influence others, and I think that those who listen to Parliament tend to fall into the same category. I propose to ban neither editorials nor the opportunity for this matter to be debated on the air so that the maximum number of people have the opportunity of access to it. 
I want to deal with another reason why there will be confusion in the public mind in relation to these Bills- a somewhat extraordinary one as to which there may be a good explanation. I do not know, but I wait to hear it and I think the public would wait to hear it. We have 2 Bills. One is called the Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill 1977 and the other is called the Constitution Alteration (Senate Casual Vacancies) Bill 1977. The innocent abroad, the elector who is expected to cast an intelligent vote in relation to these matters and to differentiate between what he wants and what he does not want by way of constitutional change, would expect to find any provision in relation to casual vacancies in the Senate in a Bill entitled Constitution Alteration (Senate Casual Vacancies) Bill 1977. But whilst that Bill does deal with some aspects of casual vacancies in the Senate, in fact that poor observer would have to look to the Bill entitled Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill to find out what happens to  Senator Lewis,  wherever he may be, or to anybody who finds himself in a similar position. 
Even  Senator Brown,  I believe, is somewhat interested and potentially involved in this question. As I understand it, there are some people in Australia who regard his interests as being of some importance and who may wish to listen to the debate. No doubt they will be amazed when they find that the Bill on simultaneous elections really does not deal with simultaneous elections at all but deals with who had the power to force the dissolution of half of this chamber and that the other part of the Bill with which we are dealing provides for  Senator Brown  to have no real opportunity of coming back to this chamber, if I am not too unkind, and for  Senator Lewis  to have an excellent opportunity of returning. In other words, it deals with what happens on casual vacancies because it will provide that the appointee to a casual vacancy shall be able to see out the full term of the person whom he replaced. What that has to do with simultaneous elections the public will be waiting to hear when this matter goes on the air tomorrow. They will be wondering why on earth the Bill was drafted in this way. There are a thousand and one other things the public will be interested to hear about the drafting of these Bills. In my view, the Bills are just as bad now as they were in 1974, or at least some of them are. 
I believe that those advancing arguments regarding the prospective destruction of this chamber and of the smaller States- I emphasise that, and I am sure  Senator Harradine  was motivated by it when he moved his motionshould have the maximum opportunity by whatever means possible to hear and be heard, for the debate to take place, for the cross-exchange to take place, and for the fertilisation of ideas to be open to the maximum number of members of the community. I emphasise that I regard this situation as being not dissimilar to a situation in relation to editorials. Not everybody reads editorials and not everybody listens to the Senate, but I am sure that both listening to the Senate and reading editorials can form an important part of the opinion making process of the Australian people. 
I do not want to minimise the importance of what  Senator Gietzelt  said by returning to one of the earlier speeches we heard in this adjournment debate tonight. I refer to a speech which I believe we were privileged to hear, a speech about the Ugandan reign of terror made by  Senator 
Neville Bonner, the first Aboriginal in the Australian Parliament. I believe that in making that speech he struck a blow which should be remembered by those of us who were privileged to hear it. I do not think there is a person in this Parliament who would not regard Neville Bonner as a man of great principle. But I think his was a voice crying out that should be listened to by both blacks and whites not only in Australia but also in other parts of the world. For too long there has been a division. For too long there has been an attempt by some to drive those divisions home, particularly in relation to Africa and especially to the black-white situation in Africa and to pretend that the siutation can be painted in black and white terms. That cannot be done. 
I believe that it is important for us to remember that  Senator Bonner,  who spoke as he did, so eloquently, so feelingly and so significantly, is the man who has spearheaded many of the developments in the recognition of Aboriginal rights in Australia. He has done this in a balanced way, using the democratic process. By doing so he has proved its value. He has done so as  Chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders. I was proud to be a member of that Committee which produced a report that was something of a hallmark in the development of the recognition of Aboriginal rights and of the situation of Aborigines in Australia. He is the man who obtained the vote of the Senate in relation to the question of compensation. I do not want to spend any time on the matter. I simply remind honourable senators of the vote in which they joined. He is the man who, to a large extent, was responsible for developing the enlightened attitude of the Government Parties in relation to the land rights question, legislation on which was passed late last year. He is the man who has on the notice paper a private members Bill in relation to police procedures and confessions by Aborigines. I think we should be encouraging moves for that Bill to be brought on, and debated and supported in this chamber. 
I have mentioned some of these points to bring together for people who may not recall as readily as we do the role which  Senator Bonner  played in these matters so that they may see the light in relation to the remarks he made about Africa, about the black, vicious, dictatorial government of a man who is either mad as some suggest, or one of the most vicious people who has ever lived. 
I would be far more ashamed to be a Queensland senator. 

 - Senator McAuliffe displays his lack of knowledge of Australian history. He supports what is a total state of ignorance brought about as a result of some history books which have been written, as have many history books, to create and develop a myth and to distort the truth. There are more people of Aboriginal descent in Tasmania as a percentage of the population than there are in Victoria and probably in several of the other States. I ask  Senator McAuliffe  not to interrupt what is a serious speech about a matter of world concern. I do not propose to respond to any further interjections from  Senator McAuliffe.  I continue by putting this view: I believe that the speech which we heard, from the first black member of this Parliament, about a matter involving a black government in Africa, ought to be seen in the light of the character and record of the man who gave the speech. 
I wanted to refer to the history of that man and to some of his achievements, not only for the purposes of this debate but also for those who at later stages may be interested in looking back and learning some lessons. I believe there are lessons to be learned from the point of view of the democratic process in relation to the achievement of the rights which people who have been underprivileged and who have at times lost rights would seek to regain by the use of that process. I believe that the lead which has been given by  Senator Bonner  is one to which we should advert. I simply say in summary about his remarks in relation to Uganda that we must strengthen our voice and strengthen Australia's voice of protest in an endeavour to develop a worldwide voice of protest about what has been happening under the regime of the person whom must be regarded as the most vicious of all the African dictators. 
There is a problem in debating this important matter, the Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill. The problem is that a time restriction has been imposed as a result of a desire on the part of the promoters of this piece of proposed legislation- the executive government and the Australian Labor Party, acting in consort for once. The time restriction means that if there is to be adequate consideration during the Committee stage of certain proposed amendments I and a number of others who would like to have been able to debate this matter at considerable length because of its seriousness are precluded from doing so. I can only regret that the legislation is being rushed through but I agree that it is important that we try to stick to the timetable so that the matter can be dealt with in the Committee stage. 
I start by pointing to the fact that the title is deceptive. The Bill has nothing to do with simultaneous elections. It does not provide for simultaneous elections. If it is carried and the referendum following it is carried there will not necessarily be simultaneous elections. What the legislation is to do with and what it is all about is the power of the Executive to dissolve the Senate and the serious implications of that. The importance of the Senate has been referred to by a number of prior speakers. I believe that its importance to the Constitution, to the democracy of Australia, is very great. I believe that its importance has become greater since Federation with the growth of big government. With the handing over of this country to the terrible trio of big government, big business and big unions as almost the sole holders of power in Australia we are reaching a stage where this Senate is the one body which can stand between the people and the power brokers. I regard its role as being one for serious consideration and reconsideration, for public debate and consideration. I believe that it is necessary for us to consider, for instance, whether we should expand the role of the Senate, expand the role of the committee system; whether we should consider having a greater divorcement from the Executive than exists at the moment by, for instance, there being no Ministers in this chamber. This would prevent it from being as closely associated with or tied to the Executive as it is at the moment. These are all matters for consideration and debate. Unfortunately I have time to raise them only briefly. 
There is a growing importance of the role of somebody in Australia, with a certainty coming from that independence and a strength from that independence, independently to be able to fulfil the role of scrutiny of the Executive Government, of both arms of the Executive. I refer to the executive government from the parliamentary point of view and the administrative executive, the Public Service. It is important also to the interests of the small States that the Senate should remain in its strength and its independence. But apparently that is not the idea of those who now would support this piece of legislation. I can only repeat the shock expressed by others that people who have consistently, in 1973, 1974 and 1975, voted to a man-I refer to members of the Liberal and National Country Parties- to oppose this legislation and stated repeatedly their reasons for their opposition have now changed their minds. Not yet has there been any credible explanation from any of the present proponents of this Bill as to why they have changed their mind. 
I am conscious of the fact that foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of small minds. We heard an honourable senator tell us that earlier, although he misquoted slightly. The important part of that quotation is that foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of small minds. I am not arguing for the sake of consistency. What I am saying is that when people wish to be inconsistent there is clearly a duty upon them to explain what has changed, what circumstances have changed, or what factors have changed their minds. We have not yet been treated to such an explanation by any of the supporters of this legislation. I think that there are some questions that are matters for public debate in the future, particularly that question which concerns the Australian Labor Party and a number of people in the community who are not necessarily supporters of that Party. I refer to the role of the Senate and the powers of the Senate, arising from the events of 11 November 1975. 1 am not suggesting that I have changed my mind one iota in relation to that; but I do believe that it has raised quite properly matters for serious consideration. They are not matters for vituperation; they are matters for serious consideration in the community as to the proper role of the Senate and the powers of the Senate. 
I believe that the things about which people are concerned include whether the Senate should be neutered in some way, whether it should be abolished or whether it should be strengthened in its independence. I certainly would argue strongly for the last named course; but I do not see any case for achieving the first- the neutering of the Senate- by stealth. That is what this piece of legislation clearly will do. I do not pause to quote again the speeches made by various of my colleagues on this side of the chamber in 1973, 1974 and 1975. Honourable senators have just heard  Senator Townley  quote from the No case which was prepared for the purposes of an identical referendum put to the people in 1974. That No case was prepared by the Liberal and National Country Parties which now are asking the people to do a total about-face- a 180 degree about-turn- and to support a piece of legislation which in 1 974 was described as deceitful and as a threat to democracy.  Senator Townley  has just quoted that. 
I regret that the Government is proceeding with the Bill. I believe that it should be withdrawn by the Government. I believe that it is still not too late for it to be withdrawn by the Government. There are other questions which I believe are proper to be put to the people by way of referendum. It is a pity that the real issues are to be confused by what was described previously as a deceptive referendum and what is clearly still a deceptive referendum if it goes to the people in these terms. This is because the title and the proposed form are nothing like the real effect. They do not deal with the real impact of what will happen if people vote 'yes' in this referendum. I think we need to consider how best we can improve and develop the scrutiny of the Executive. I believe that we need to consider whether the people of Australia just want to hand over to the big three and forget about having any system of checks and balances, a system which was held sacred by my colleagues on this side of the chamber during that period of 1973, 1974 and 1975. 
I emphasise that in June 1975, a little over 18 months ago, this matter was debated in this chamber and to a man the members of the Liberal and National Country Parties reasserted the attitude that they had asserted so vigorously during the 1974 referendum campaign and again during the debates that took place in this chamber in 1 973 and 1 974. 1 regard it as a matter of regret that the real question of the role of the Senate is nott being considered but rather that there is an attempt to destroy it by stealth. It means that necessary constitutional change, real reform, in this country is being put in jeopardy as a result of the action being taken apparently by a majority in this chamber today. There are important questions of constitutional reform. There are important questions of necessary change to bring our Constitution up to date with the needs of the latter part of this century and into the next century. But that is not what is being done. What is being done is to advance a proposal to put to the people what we have described previously as a deceptive question which will mislead the people into thinking that what they are getting is simultaneous elections at a reduction in cost and inconvenience to them when, in fact, what they are getting is the loss of the one bulwark that stands between them and the executive power of big government combining with big unions and big business. 
In the 1974 referendum campaign the Liberal and National Country Parties said that the identical proposal was unnecessary to achieve simultaneous elections. That position has not changed. It was argued by  Mr Fraser,  the present Prime Minister. It was argued by  Mr Lynch,  the  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party. It was argued by the National Country Party. It was argued by  Senator Withers  in this chamber and by others who supported him. AH of those people said that it was unnecessary. What has changed to make the referendum necessary now? Nothing that I have heard and nothing that has been put before this chamber or the people. In 1 974 the proposal was said to be deceitful. Nothing has changed in relation to that. In 1974 it was said to be a threat to democracy. Nothing has changed in relation to that. Because this remains so, because there has been no explanation which could change my mind, I believe that I am entitled to rely upon consistency and to say that I opposed the referendum in 1973, 1974 and 1975 and I will oppose it in 1977 and until somebody explains to me some reason why I should change my mind or shows me where I was wrong previously. I believe that it is important to preserve the Senate in the interests of my State of Tasmania. It is the smallest of the small States. It is a State which, as  Senator Carrick  said on 10 June 1975, badly needs the protection of the Senate. I will do everything in my power to ensure that it receives that protection. 
-That speech without doubt contained the most misguided statement of all the misguided statements we have heard. This amendment has absolutely nothing to do with the powers related to a double dissolution. 
Question put 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator Wright's amendment)  be added. 
I remain quite unable to find out why it is that although in 1974  Senator Durack  and the others who are supporting this Bill in its present form prepared and put out a No case which called the title of the Bill deceptive they now say that the title is not deceptive. Have any changes been made? If they have not been made, how is it that it was deceptive in 1 974 and it is not deceptive in 1 977? 
Amendment negatived. 
Title agreed to. 
-Very briefly, for my own edification and the edification of others who may be interested, I ask why clause 5, which deals with casual vacancies, is in the Bill entitled Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill when the Senate also has before it a Bill entitled Constitution Alteration (Senate 
Casual Vacancies) Bill. There may be some good reason, but I would like to hear it. 
I think this debate, which is already starting to open up in relation to the matter of amendment to this Bill, requires that we go back and look at the consideration which has been given to the Bill and to the provisions which we have been debating albeit in a somewhat curtailed way. I go back to the 1973 Australian Constitutional Convention and the speech at that Convention by  Senator Ivor  Greenwood, the then shadow AttorneyGeneral, the then Opposition or Liberal and Country Party spokesman on matters to do with the law. At that Convention  Senator Greenwood  said: 
To synchronise the elections so that they would both take place on the one day-to compel that course of action by constitutional amendment, would be to weaken the effectiveness of the Senate because there would be a tendency for the Senate and the Senate's interests to be submerged . . . 
He went on to make some further comment. He finished up by saying- and this is the pertinent part: 
On the other hand, also as I said earlier, there are certain fallacies and lack of logic in the arguments in support of these matters which can be most usefully exposed by the working committee. 
His argument, and the then Opposition's argument, was that it should be considered by a committee. Eventually it was referred to a committee. What did that committee report? At the Australian Constitutional Convention in Melbourne in September 1975 the report of the committee on the synchronisation of elections for the Senate and the House of Representatives said as follows: 
The Committee had before it a recommendation that the Constitution be amended to provide for the synchronisation of elections of members of the House of Representatives and Senators. Also before the Committee was a recommendation that the Parliament be empowered to decide whether such elections should be brought into permanent alignment. 
The committee had resolved to defer consideration of these recommendations in light of the Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) 1974, which related directly to this matter and for which a referendum was held on 18 May 1974. The committee has subsequently been unable to report on this matter. 
It is quite clear that because there was a referendum the Committee just did not do anything about the matter. So it has never been considered by a committee. 
If  Senator Missen  - 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator DrakeBrockman)  No seconder is required in the Committee stage. 
I should be grateful if my colleague and friend,  Senator Missen,  would allow me to make my own argument, because the next matter to which I was coming was the 1976 Convention. I think that he might at least have given me the credit of recognising that I might deal with the matter sequentially. I had got to the 1975 Convention at which time, I pointed out, Convention Committee D did not consider this matter. 
In 1976 the most disgraceful performance, to the eternal disgrace of the concept of a Constitutional Convention, took place. What happened when this matter came on was that  Mr Lionel  Bowen, the Labor Party's spokesman on matters of law, made a speech in which he did not deal in any way with the effects or potential effects of this proposal on the Senate. He talked about only the aspects of the importance of saving cost or whatever it might be by holding elections for both Houses together. He spoke for some time. The seconder of the motion did not speak to it at all. Then there was some debate on an amendment related to whether State Governors or the Commonwealth should issue the writ. A few bits and pieces were discussed in this somewhat desultory debate on the matter. No consideration was given to the real question of the details of the Bill or to such questions as are raised by the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Wright.  In looking at the Constitutional Convention, to be most generous, approximately 1600 words were spoken in relation to the whole of the matter, other than the question of casual vacancies and the question of who should issue the writs. I repeat: Only approximately 1600 words. In other words, the whole lot, every word spoken in the consideration of this matter by the Convention, could have been reported in 2 columns of a newspaper. That is claimed to be the real consideration and the basis upon which we should accept this Bill be put through the Senate without alteration. It is so full of holes, as will be demonstrated no doubt by  Senator Wright  and others during the debate, that it does need proper consideration. It needed it in 1973 and that is why it was referred to a committee. It was never considered by a committee and quite clearly it was never considered by the Constitutional Convention in 1976, other than on the most superficial basis. The Convention considered only those matters which were unrelated to the real issues which we have had raised before this chamber. I just wish to make those points in support of the consideration of  Senator Wright's  amendment. 
-The speciousness of the argument just put by  Senator Chaney  is seen in the fact that what he was talking about was this chamber reflecting the new political attitude as a result of a changed allegiance or structure in the political party system in Australia following a split. To achieve that there would need to be a double dissolution. We are talking about a half Senate election. I simply make that comment in relation to what  Senator Chaney  said and leave it at that. The real question with which we are concerned is the power to dissolve this chamber. I want to bring the Committee back to that.  Senator McLaren  has made it patently obvious that he has not got to first base in understanding that. Whilst I do not suggest for a moment that the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  does not understand, I am still waiting to hear what he has to say about this aspect of it, the real issue. The matter was debated in 1973, 1974 and 1975 so vigorously, so regularly and so convincingly by members of the Liberal and National Country Party- and we won a referendum- but still we cannot get a solitary word as to what it is that has made the 180 degrees about face either necessary or desirable. 
The Constitutional Convention did not discuss this proposal in any detail. It does not matter how many people were at the Convention nor who they were, the fact is that the matter was not discussed. Hundreds and hundreds of pages of debate have been recorded in  Hansard  on this matter in 3 years. Numerous people who were at that Constitutional Convention had participated in debates on this matter in both of the Houses during those years. Issues were raised and considered in those debates. Firm attitudes were taken by various Liberal and National Country Party members. Yet the only conclusion one can reach is that when the matter came on at the Constitutional Convention, by some strange form of osmosis there was a transmutation between the thoughts of the Australian Labor Party and the Liberal and National Country Party and there was no necessity for any debate whatever even to explain to anybody- for anybody even to raise a question- about all the things that had been put up in the preceding 3 years. I simply repeat, let us get back to the real issue, the one that concerned people previously and the one that still concerns us- the question of the transference to the executive of the day of the power to dissolve this chamber, without confrontation, without deadlock and without good reason, and what that would do to the strength and independence of this chamber. They are the questions. Those problems could be alleviated somewhat by the proposal put forward in the proposed amendment of  Senator Wright.  I should like to hear some debate on that real issue instead of some statements saying that the Constitutional Convention said something ought to be done. The Constitutional Convention did not debate it, its committee did not consider it and- 
As  Senator Missen  said, it reached a conclusion. I would have loved it to be a reasoned conclusion, obvious to those who read the transcript of proceedings, rather than something which one can only conclude was worked out behind closed doors. 
I briefly reply to the suggestion by the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  that this legislation is necessary to achieve simultaneous elections. That seems to remain the basis upon which it is put-that the Bill is necessary to achieve simultaneous elections. I would like to quote just several people who are apparently involved in support for this Bill and to repeat my surprise at no explanation having been given for the change in attitude. On 17 March 1974 the present Prime Minister, the Rt  Hon.  Malcolm Fraser, in an election statement said: 
The referendum is quite unnecessary. If  Mr Whitlam  wants simultaneous elections all he has to do is to pull out the House of Representatives with the Senate. 
And so it goes on. The elections can be brought on together.  Mr Lynch  in a debate in the House of Representatives said: 
In short, the Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill is not simply unnecessary but also is cunningly deceptive in its intent. 
That was a repeat of the expression to which there has been considerable reference by various speakers during the second reading debate about what was said by  Senator Withers  and numerous other people in this chamber on numerous occasions- that it is just simply not necessary to have this referendum to enable simultaneous elections to be held. Yet we are treated to this load of- this argument as being only one of the reasons along with the changed circumstance of the Constitutional Convention having considered it. I reiterate, the Convention did not, on the face of it, give it any real consideration at all. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator Wright's amendment)  be added. 
-Whilst I can see and have at all times accepted the argument in favour of the convenience and the reduction in cost of holding simultaneous elections, that makes simultaneous elections desirable but not essential. I, therefore, ask again that people reconsider the instances where they are prepared to say that elections must be held simultaneously or the instances where they are prepared to take a stand and make simultaneous elections as practicable as they can without making simultaneous elections absolutely essential. One must go back to the real issue. That is: Should a Prime Ministerany Prime Minister, of whatever party- the chief of the executive government, be able to take half of the Senate to an election at his whim and at any time that he choses, as opposed to at any time that the actions of that chamber have lead to a deadlock or confrontation? 
To take a totally cynical view, as I think was mentioned during the second reading debate on this Bill, in 1973 it would have been perfectly possible for the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitiam,  with a relatively high state of euphoria after opening the Treasury doors and spending the money that had been accumulated for quite some time by careful and good economic management, to have obtained a majority in the Senate had this proposed legislation been in force. At that time he had a good deal of community support. He did not have a majority in the Senate, but if this proposal had existed in the legislation he very easily could have obtained a majority by the arbitrary exercise of the power which this Bill proposes to give a Prime Minister. 
In principle it would mean the destruction of the bicameral system. If we accept the bicameral system, we accept the desirability of having a different basis of tenure in each of the 2 Houses, which has a historical basis that I do not think has yet been shown to be wrong. If one 
House is merely to be a reflection of the other House, we might as well not have the second House unless we give it some entirely separate function. As I indicated yesterday when speaking to this Bill, I would be very happy to see the community debate what it considers the role of the Upper House ought to be. I do not for a moment deny that that is a matter to which we ought to be giving consideration. 
-No. I thought I had just explained the situation. I shall explain it again for the benefit of  Senator James  McClelland. I said that I did not see any advantage in having a second House- in retaining a bicameral system and having the Senate- if the decision of when one half of the membership of that House is to be put to an election is to be made at the whim of the chief of the executive government - 
May I finish without interruption? Then, if the honourable senator wishes to interrupt, by all means let him. I am saying that this decision should not be made at the whim of the Executive without there having been some basis of confrontation or deadlock between the Houses. The situation of confrontation or deadlock is provided for already in section 57 of the Constitution, relating to double dissolution. My short answer to  Senator James  McClelland s point is that the Senate cannot in any way nominate the day on which the House of Representatives will go to an election. Not in any way can it do that. What it can do is to get into a deadlock situation which has to be resolved in compliance with certain procedures set out in the Constitution. This Bill proposes to give an entirely different power to the House of Representatives or to the chief of the executive in that House. Entirely at their whim- as early as they like or after a matter of months- they can nominate a day for an election. It may be, as has been indicated by other speakers, that there are other reasons that will cause that power to be exercised which are nothing to do with the Senate. They can be related to internal disputes in the House of Representatives or in the government party there. They can be related to things which are nothing to do with the position or actions of the Senate within the Parliament. 
I am asking for consistency. I am saying that until such time as we have had a fully reasoned debate about the proper role of the Senate and have come up with some reasoned decisions as to what that role should be, let us not destroy the Senate by stealth. I believe that the action being taken does effectively destroy the Senate by stealth by giving to the executive government of the day the power to be able to make threats to a Senate, however innocent that Senate may be in its actions. This proposal gives power to the Executive Government to change the balance of power in the Senate by its own whim. There are a number of other things which in the Committee stage I cannot debate in detail. I get back to the essential reason why I support  Senator Jessop's  amendment. There should be some limit of time to prevent arbitrary action of the Executive. As a matter of fact I do not particularly like  Senator Jessop's  amendment. I just think it is better than what is proposed in the Bill. I do not think the Executive at its whim ought to be able to take out half the Senate between 18 months and 3 years of its term. 
I do not know what the answer is. I would have liked the Constitutional Convention to have a proper debate about these matters, these real issues, that are raised here. Had a committee of the Constitutional Convention discussed this matter, considered it properly and come up with a reasoned view we may have had some basis upon which we could consider it. At the moment all we are given is this totally superficial reason of cost and convenience and the fact that the Constitutional Convention discussed it. We know that the Constitutional Convention did not discuss it all. Anyone who looks at the transcript of the Constitutional Convention will see perfectly clearly that the matter was never given any consideration by that body. 
I shall explain briefly my reason for seconding the motion because of the constraints of time of which we are all aware. I support the view put by the late  Senator Greenwood  in moving for a committee consideration by the Constitutional Convention in 1973. 1 support and adopt the reasons stated by  Senator Withers  and others in December 1973 when a similar motion to that moved by  Senator Harradine  was moved in this chamber and carried with the support of the Liberal and Country parties. I refer to the fact that this measure has never been considered by a committee. It was not considered or debated in detail in any way whatsoever at the Constitutional Convention in 1 976 or at any other time. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Report adopted. 
In view of the fact that all the planes are delayed, and the sudden urgency being exhibited by a number of people to get away will be allayed, I take the opportunity to say that I would have liked to have had a chance to explain why I wished to vote in a particular way. It is unfortunate that events precluded me from doing so. I am sure the Government and the Opposition will be only too happy when the Senate resumes to afford opportunities to those who were caught in a similar situation to explain their actions. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 5 p.m., until Tuesday, 8 March 1977 at 3 p.m., unless otherwise called together in accordance with the resolution agreed to this day. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. On 22 February I asked the Minister whether the freight rate increases announced by the Australian National Line would be followed by an immediate review of the subsidy levels in the Tasmanian freight equalisation scheme to ensure that the scheme continues to achieve its stated objective. The Minister undertook to obtain an answer from the Minister for Transport. Is he now in a position to provide an answer to that question? 
I ask the Minister for Science a question. I refer to the question on notice which I asked on 16 February this year regarding the nature and extent of solar energy research in Australia and the Government's actions in and support for that research. Will the Minister make a ministerial statement on the subject providing for public information the detailed information which he has given to me by letter? Alternatively, will he have the letter incorporated in  Hansard? 
Is the Minister for Industry and Commerce aware that an announcement has been made that the textile mill of Kelsall and Kemp (Tasmania) Ltd, Launceston, is to be closed? Is he aware of the serious consequences to that area which is already hard hit by textile industry retrenchments which have taken place since the ill-fated, ill-considered decisions of the Labor Government set that industry along an even more tremulous path than it had been treading? Can the Minister indicate whether the Government has completed its White Paper recommendations in relation to the textile industry? If so, can the Minister indicate the general nature of those recommendations and whether any decision has been taken by the Government in relation to them. If not, will the Minister consider urgent steps to preserve that mill's operation, pending any long term decisions on the future of the textile industry? 
-The difficulty of adopting a sane approach to this problem has just been demonstrated by the interjection from  Senator McLaren  to what was an intelligent, if brief, contribution by  Senator Townley. Senator Townley  's contribution was in marked contrast to the contribution from  Senator McLaren  which, if it were not perhaps regarded as being outside the proprieties of the Senate, could be called a load of garbage. Certainly it could be regarded as being something akin to the product which sells for the lower price from the place where a large number of birds are kept. I can only say that it seemed to me that the honourable senator's speech could be likened to one of the waste products. 
To withdraw the Bills, as has been argued by  Senator McLaren,  is a move which rather reminds me of what can best be described as substituting the substance for the shadow. It is important that the growers obtain confirmation of the continuation of the scheme. It is important that assistance be given at least at the existing rate. It is important also that the views of a majority of honourable senators be expressed to the Government so that it knows the strength of feeling and attitude which has been voiced from all sections of the Senate with regard to the plight of this industry, the importance of the industry and the importance of the people involved in it. As  Senator Wright  has said, in a speech upon which I should like to compliment him and which I endorse but, for the sake of brevity, will not repeat, at a time when there has been an increase in the number of orchards in some part of Australia we find a decrease in Tasmania. For instance, in the municipality of Kingborough in Tasmania, where the were 165 orchards in 1961 there are now 40 left. In the Cygnet area of Tasmania, where there were 265 orchards in 1961 there are now 57 left. If that is not the decimation of an industry I do not know what is. But it is not only the industry that is important, it is the people associated with it, the individuals who have been pushed out of what was a successful and worthwhile occupation into various other areas of activity or into fields of unemployment and social welfare. How much better, as has been said, that we should concentrate on taking steps to restore the position of this industry, which does produce a valuable product, a sought-after product, and one which I believe can be marketed both in Australia and overseas. 
It is important that we develop the new markets. It is important that steps be taken to preserve the industry while new markets are developed. Therefore, I certainly support the foreshadowed motion of  Senator Wright  that the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission report failed to take into account the necessity of assisting the industry to develop non-European markets. There is no doubt at all that markets are available which can be and are being developed. Markets in Australia can be and are being developed. Tasmanian fruit producers, through the freight equalisation scheme introduced by the Liberal-National Country Parties, now have an opportunity to compete on the domestic market. But when we are talking about the plight of the apple growers and about assisting Tasmania, it is not just Tasmania which is being assisted by this export scheme, it is the whole of the apple and pear growing industry in Australia. If the Tasmanians do not export the majority of their produce then undoubtedly they will put it onto a market which in the past they have been somewhat prevented from entering but which increasingly they can enter on a competitive basis. It will not be only the growers in Tasmania who will find competition a difficulty; some of the other growers who, because they have been nearer to the large markets around Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane, will find competition a great difficulty. There is an incentive for every apple grower in Australia to ensure that as much as possible of the produce is exported overseas on a sound basis, on a basis which gives some reasonable return to the grower. I wish to make that point because it is not only Tasmanians who are involved in this proposition, it is growers in all States of Australia. 
As I said before, I certainly endorse what  Senator Wright  said in an excellent speech. It was to express a clear and strong opinion of the Senate, and as I think  Senator McLaren's  Party found when it was in government, governments which just ignore the strongly held feelings and expressed views of the Senate may rue the day that they ignored those views. I suggest only that if the motion foreshadowed by  Senator Wright  is carried I feel sure that, having learned the lesson, having noted what happens, the Government will pay due heed to the strongly expressed views coming from this chamber. I am sorry he is not here at the moment because I am sure he would recall it with me, but I know that  Senator Withers,  the Leader of the Government in the Senate, well remembers the battle we had in 1968 and 1969 to get certain aspects of marketing schemes changed. For a period of time things which a majority of the Senate regarded as wrong in the organisation of those schemes were pursued by those who prepared the legislation, and it was not until the matter had been raised on a number of occasions that the Senate made it quite clear that it was not prepared to approve in the future legislation which contained that type of provision. No such legislation has ever been trundled up to this place since. I think that that again is an example of the sort of things this chamber has done and can do. I am sure the Government Leader well remembers the attitude he adopted at that time as one of the senators who strongly expressed the view that what was being done by the Executive of the day was not being done in the best way possible. It did not protect the interests of individuals as it should, and it was the Senate which had that changed. For  Senator McLaren  to equate the present position with the position in relation to pensioner funeral benefits shows his continuing ignorance of this place. The real point, and the point which I think it is important to remember, is that the Senate cannot increase the charge on the revenue. We cannot of our own volition change the legislation to increase the amount to $3 per case for apples or $ 1 .20 per case for pears. 
I did not interject upon  Senator McLaren.  It was all I could do to listen to him. I would be quite happy if he either did not bother listening or did not bother to interject.  Senator McLaren's  argument was quite faulty. What he appeared to do was suggest that we cannot do something positive by way of changing the legislation but we can make a request. In another form, that is precisely what we are doing. That is what  Senator Wright  is proposing, except that he is doing it in. clear and strong and firm terms which do not in any way put the passage of the Bill at risk. That seems do be the best way of having your apple and eating it too, if I can put it that way. I draw a great distinction between the action taken by a number of people in this chamber in relation to something else that they thought needed attention, that is, the pensioner funeral benefits, where it was possible to prevent the withdrawal of something, and the action being impliedly requested by  Senator McLaren  that we take positive action to increase the amount of the base level of the support in relation to fruit. That cannot be done. What we have proposed as an alternative is something clear and positive which I feel confident will be fully taken into account by the Government. 
In conclusion, I can say only that  Senator McLaren's  consistent attack on  Senator Wright  I thought was unbecoming even for him. If at the time he concludes his service in this chamber he has served one-tenth as well in representing the people of his own State and the people of Australia as  Senator Wright  has done then 1 think he will die a much happier man than I believe he will. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 March 1977: 
1 ) Is the light situated on Deal Island in Bass Strait frequently obscured by cloud. 
Are many lights in that area now serviced by helicopter and are not attended by light keepers. 
Is the Bass Pyramid Rock an isolated Island in the general shipping lane from northern Tasmanian ports to Sydney. 
Will the Minister investigate the desirability and cost of installing an automatic light on Bass Pyramid Rock to facilitate navigation in that notoriously difficult part of Bass Strait. 
I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations the following matter: Government funding of, and expenditure of public moneys by, Commonwealth statutory authorities and corporations, particularly those which present annual reports to the Parliament. 
-Pursuant to order of the Senate, I bring up the report of Estimates Committee F, together with the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings and the explanatory notes provided by the departments whose estimates the Committee considered. I move: 
That the report be printed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 - Mr President, I seek leave to make a relatively brief statement in relation to that report. 
I previously drew the attention of honourable senators to the report from Estimates Committee F in which certain comments were made. For purposes of continuity and simplicity it may be as well if I refer again to those comments which were made in the report to the Senate a few days ago. The Committee said: 
With regard to the first item - 
That is the one to which  Senator Wright  has referred-   . . on which the Committee sought additional information, members were informed that the former First Parliamentary Counsel after retiring before the age of 65 years had been re-engaged under a written agreement for a period of 3 years from 8 February 1977 as a consultant to assist in the drafting of the legislative program at a daily remuneration of $134.96 for each day worked based on a Level 4, Second Division salary in the Commonwealth Public Service, plus a loading of 1 5 per cent in lieu of recreation leave, sick leave and public holidays. Approval for the re-engagement of the former First Parliamentary Counsel as a consultant had been obtained from the Public Service Board and the Treasurer. 
I pause there to point out that some correspondence was provided to the Committee, which is attached as an annexure, both about this matter and about the other matter that was raised by the Committee and that has been raised by  Senator Wright  before the Estimates Committee and here. That relates to certain payments to judges. We will deal with that a little later. The report goes on to say: 
As a general principle, the Committee considers that a public servant who has retired of his own volition before reaching the compulsory retiring age of 65 years and thereby became entitled to superannuation should not be engaged as a consultant at a fee which taken together with the superannuation entitlement provides a higher net income for similar work to that which would have been carried out had the public servant remained in the Public Service until reaching the normal retiring age of 65 years. Members of the Committee fear that such a practice could, if not controlled, become the subject of widespread abuse and be used as a device to obtain an income advantage and also to overcome the restriction imposed on departmental staff ceilings by the Government. The Committee does not suggest that the present case falls into either of those categories but merely demonstrates the possibilities of abuse. 
Should the necessity arise for such a consultant to be engaged by a department the Committee firmly believes that any agreement entered into ought not provide a loading for recreational leave, sick leave and public holidays. The consultant should only be remunerated for the task for which he was engaged. 
Whilst it is not suggested that there was anything undesirable or improper in relation to this particular case - 
I am sorry. Whilst there was nothing improper in relation to this particular question it points up a practice which, if it expands, could become subject to abuse and have a continuing undesirable aspect. I would like to hear from the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  something of the explanation which was given for the particular circumstance and also if possible the reaction to the comments of the Committee that care should be taken in future to refrain from permitting this sort of practice to grow in this way. 
I am not sure that the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  quite understood the point which Estimates Committee F was making and I would like to clarify it. What was said was to draw attention to the situation where a member of the Public Service retires before reaching the compulsory retirement age. Perhaps I should explain it in terms of example. Somebody in receipt of an income of-to use an easy figure- $20,000 a year as a senior public servant- not so senior these days at that rate-could at the age of 60 opt to resign from the Public Service; be entitled to superannuation which, we will say, is a minimum of $10,000 a year; be re-engaged as a consultant to do the same work for the remaining 5 years for which he would normally have worked; and be in receipt of a total income of about $30,000 for doing the work for which, if he had stayed in the Public Service, he would have been paid $20,000 a year. That is the point which I am endeavouring to explain to the Minister for his benefit. The point was misunderstood by him. If the Minister's attention has been distracted, I will restate it. 
I was trying to explain the importance of the point which the Minister appeared not to understand -retirement before the compulsory retiring age of 65. Someone can be financially much better off by retiring early and going back into the same job. If they go back after they have reached 65 years of age, we are not worried about that. We are not worried about somebody who retires before 60 years of age and is therefore not entitled to the superannuation entitlements which become available during his optional period from 60 to 65 years of age. That is why it was important to make reference to somebody who retires before reaching the compulsory retiring age of 65, becomes entitled to superannuation, and is then reengaged at a fee equivalent to the income he would have received had he stayed on the job, over and above which he is receiving superannuation as a result of his having elected to retire. That was the point that was being made. I think it is both clear and valid. I would have hoped that we might have obtained a response from the Minister indicating that it has been taken up with the Public Service Board. 
I would have hoped that we would have a response that the point is understood and acknowledged and that the attention of the Public Service Board has been drawn to it or that there has been some discussion in relation to it. I would still hope that we might get that response. 
I wish to support what has been said, first by  Senator James  McClelland and then by  Senator Wright.  I refer again to the fact that I believe that the estimates committee and the Senate is indebted to  Senator Wright.  This is an important matter. I have a letter, a response from the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Ellicott)  addressed to me as  chairman  of that estimates committee, setting out certain matters in relation to the subject matter of the speeches of  Senator Wright  and  Senator James  McClelland. It concludes with this paragraph: 
I note the concern expressed by some members of the Committee that the provision as to payments to be made to retired judges should be contained in legislation. I agree that in principle this should be so and I will be giving the matter early consideration with a view to recommending in due course appropriate amendments to the relevant legislation. 
I hope that that is an undertaking that the legislation will be introduced. I had hoped that this matter could have been dealt with by the withdrawal from the appropriations of an amount which is sought and that instead it could have been appropriated by specific legislation providing, in the manner that has been described by  Senator Wright  as being necessary, for these particular payments. In all of the circumstances perhaps that cannot be done in this case. We trust that the Attorney-General means that it will never happen again in this way and that in future it will be provided for specifically and openly by legislation. I hope that we may be able to receive such an undertaking from the Minister. 
-For the information of honourable senators I present a report from the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations relating to its inquiry on the subject of Public Service computer use. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Industry and Commerce been directed towards or attracted to the reports in the Press following the Australian Federation of Travel Agents convention in Hobart in late July? Those Press reports praised the Tasmanian hospitality received by the delegates and claimed that the Hobart convention was the greatest ever held. I ask: Does the Minister agree that such a response gives clear support for Tasmania 's claim to be an ideal venue for conventions with the hospitality of its people, its excellent facilities and its interest and variety in scenery and history and other things which are well known to members of Parliament but which are perhaps not so well known overseas? Will the Minister endeavour, through the Australian Tourist Commission, to have some steps taken to give greater promotion to Tasmania as a convention centre for international organisations? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to the Tasmanian freight equalisation scheme, which has been received with considerable acclaim in Tasmania. In view of the increases in freight charges which have occurred since the scheme was introduced in the middle of last year, will the Minister take up with his colleague consideration of commencing forthwith the promised review rather than waiting till December to commence the review? 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
1 ) How many copies of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry First Report were printed, and at what price was it sold to members of the public by Australian Government Publishing Service bookshops. 
How many copies of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry Second Report were printed, and at what price was it sold to members of the public by Australian Government Publishing Service bookshops. 
I would just like briefly to refer to the reports which have been presented here today. I refer not to any one in particular but to the whole lot. The first on the list is a report for the year ended 30 June 1 976. The second is for the year ended 30 June 1 973. The third is for the year ended 30 June 1976-15 months ago. The next one is the same. The one after is the same. The following report is for the year ended 30 June 1975, 27 months since the relevant period. The last one again is for the year ended 30 June 1 976.I know that some Ministers have had some concern about the fact that it seems it is taking a long time for some of these reports to come out. As  Chairman  of the Finance and Government Operations Committee I can indicate also that that Committee has expressed its concern about the length of time it is taking some of these reports to come out. I simply ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  whether he could cause some statement to be prepared in explanation as to why these reports have appeared today so that we can perhaps learn something more as to the cause of the delays in the presentation of these reports. 
I present a progress report from the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations. 
Ordered that the report be printed.  Senator RAE-by  leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report 
The purpose of this report is to inform the Senate of the operations of the Committee and its progress to date on the various matters under consideration. We acknowledge the responsibility placed on the Committee by the Senate to enhance the scrutiny of public expenditure, including the expenditure of statutory bodies whose budgets make up a large part of the Commonwealth's total expenditure. In this context, the Committee sees its main role in following up the work of the Estimates Committees and maintaining a total and continuing examination of Commonwealth Government funded, owned or controlled bodies. The Committee also sees the need for some parliamentary scrutiny of special appropriations. On 5 May 1977 the Senate referred to this Committee the following matter: government funding of, and expenditure of public moneys by, Commonwealth statutory authorities and corporations, particularly those which present annual reports to the Parliament. 
In accordance with that reference, preliminary investigations have been made into various aspects of the affairs of statutory bodies, including contracts, purchase, lease and ownership of Commonwealth property, the timeliness and content of annual reports, the proliferation of statutory bodies, their staffing, financial and audit provisions, and their accountability to the Parliament. The Committee has made a random check on contracts over $50,000 let by a number of statutory authorities and intends to investigate further, particularly in the area of cleaning contracts regulated by the Department of Administrative Services, in most cases. The Committee has also made inquiries into the procedures for property management within the network of government operations and is concerned at the limitations on the co-ordinating role available to the Department of Administrative Services in this respect. The Committee is also concerned that various statutory authorities are exempt from the provisions of section 66a of the Lands Acquisition Act. 
With regard to annual reports, the Committee has been concerned to discover that there is no comprehensive list of statutory bodies which are required to report to the Parliament and that those which do report are sometimes very tardy in this respect, being up to several years late, as we have noticed in recent times. We are proceeding to prepare such a list and to check the reporting processes. The Committee has also become concerned about accountability provisions in general with regard to statutory authorities. It has become clear to the Committee that there is a lack of uniformity in the staffing and financial provisions of the numerous statutory authorities, rising to the level of disputes with the AuditorGeneral over the appropriate form for annual financial statements presented to him. The Committee will investigate these matters further. 
It can be seen from what I have outlined that the Committee is particularly concerned about the adequacy of accountability provisions in legislation relating to the creation of statutory authorities and is concerned to see guidelines developed which provide and adequate measure of accountability to the Parliament from Commonwealth statutory authorities and other bodies which the Commonwealth owns or controls. The Committee believes that responsible government involves the ultimate authority of the Parliament over all government activities, regardless of their statutory form, and for that reason suggests the revision of the terms of reference of 5 May 1977 to enable the Committee more adequately to fulfil its role. The current terms of reference concentrate on financial provisions and expenditure of public funds on an annual basis. The Committee believes that the operations of government-owned public companies should be accessible to parliamentary scrutiny, irrespective of any annual public funding, and accordingly suggests that the terms of reference be altered clearly to include accountability provisions and to give the Committee appropriate powers in that respect. The proposed terms of reference are set out in the report. I commend that report to the Senate and seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Is the Leader of the Government aware that the relatively young Premier of Tasmania,  Mr Neilson,  has, a few minutes ago, announced his intention to resign from the State Parliament and to accept appointment as the Tasmanian Agent-General in London? Is this a further indication of the continuing fracture within the Australian Labor Party? Is it the direct result of the takeover of the ALP in Tasmania by the extremists of the left wing? 
My question to the Minister representing the Treasurer follows some questions asked of him earlier today. Can the Minister indicate the extent to which the Arabs are using petrodollars to speculate against the Australian dollar and other currencies? Are the sudden interest of Labor senators and the scare tactics in relation to the value of the Australian dollar intended to be of assistance to the speculative activities of those who were at one stage of which we are aware the proposed financial backers of the Australian Labor Party? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the annual report of the Australian National Gallery for 1975-76 be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations for investigation and report as to the reasons for the delay in its presentation. 
I wish to speak briefly in relation to this motion. Noting that the report was listed for presentation today, I sought an opportunity to have a look at it. It is the report for the year ended 30 June 1976. It is being tabled today-the 21st September 1977. If it were a complicated report or had there been some serious problem which was obvious one could understand the reason for the delay. But having looked at the report I find that it covers a period of only 27 days- from 3 June 1976 when the National Gallery Act came into force until 30 June 1 976. The Gallery has penned a total of 32 lines of typescript to enable it to report 'adequately' to the Parliament. Honourable senators would agree with me I think when I say that it could not be regarded as either a mammoth job or a mammoth report. In fact, I suggest it is a rubbishy disgrace to the Gallery and to the Parliament. Even more disgraceful to the fact that the report has taken 15 months from the end of the period which the report covers to be presented in this place. The compilation of the report could not have taken more than a few minutes. The statement of income and expenditure which is attached to it shows that income during the period was nil and expenditure during the period was nil. I cannot imagine that it took the Auditor-General a good deal of time to audit that statement. This report actually contains as an attachment some reference to the fact that there was some expenditure from the estimates for the Department of the Prime Minister and 
Cabinet. There are six items listed and an amount of $225,575. Even that information would not have taken a great deal of time for the Auditor-General to check or for the Gallery to compile. 
The report is not dated. So it is not clear on what date it was prepared for presentation to the Auditor-General. But the Auditor-General's certificate is dated 17 February 1977. At least some seven months ago the Auditor-General had cleared it. But it is only now presented in this place. It does seem to me that this indicates prima facie contempt of the Parliament and a contempt for the statutory responsibility to report. Thirty-two lines of nothing after 15 months for the processing of the preparation of report and its presentation here hardly seems adequate in terms of the responsibility that is imposed on this body. For those reasons I have moved that this matter be referred to the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations to find out the cause of this apparently inordinate delay and this apparent incapacity to report. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
1 ) What are the (a) secondary, and (b) tertiary (if any) qualifications of each of the members of the Universities Council, the Advanced Education Council and the Technical and Further Education Council, the appointments to which were announced in the Senate on 3 June 1977. 
) In what year and at which secondary or tertiary institution were the qualifications listed in response to (1) above obtained. 
I ask the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he can indicate the current stage of the proposed legislation with regard to travel agents. Further, will the Minister indicate briefly the nature of the proposed legislation? 
I bring up the report of Estimates Committee F on the particulars of proposed expenditure for the year 1977-78, together with the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. In doing so I seek leave to make a few brief remarks in relation to the report. 
My question, by way of change, relates also to education and investigation, but to an entirely different aspect of it. My question is directed to the Minister for Science. By way of brief preface I refer to the public debate regarding the desirability or otherwise of further scientific research into genetic engineering. Has the Minister considered this matter? In response to an honourable senator opposite who is attempting to interject, I can think of some genetic engineering which might have been better performed. But to continue with my question, does the Minister consider that this research involves questions which are important socially as well as from a scientific point of view? Has the Government determined any policy in relation to this? Can the Minister indicate generally to this chamber the Government's and his attitude in relation to this matter? 
by leave- Once again we have a report with an inexplicable period of delay involved in its presentation. That report is introduced by a letter signed by the Commandant of the Royal Military College at Duntroon and dated March 1977. On the face of it, it was sent by the Commandant to the Department of Defence in March 1977. It is now October 1977.I wonder where it has been? Why has it been so long getting from the College, which has apparently prepared it in good time, to the Parliament which has received it in very bad time from the point of view of delay. I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  whether he is prepared to make some inquiries or to cause an inquiry to be made as to the circumstances surrounding the delay. Were there some good reasons for the delay or was it dilatoriness on the part of people involved who may or may not have been displaying some lack of concern for their obligation to report promptly to the Parliament. If the Minister does not find it appropriate to make the inquiries, I foreshadow that I shall move a motion to refer the matter to an appropriate committee for inquiry. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Will the proposed national rural bank cater for the needs of the fishing industry? Does he agree that there is in Australia a need for finance to enable fishermen to build larger boats with greater catching capacity and generally to upgrade their equipment? Will the national rural bank assist in providing this opportunity to Australian fishermen? 
I seek leave to table additional information received by Estimates Committee F. 
by leave- I would like to compliment the Public Accounts Committee on its report and on the thought that has been given to a range of important aspects of the Parliament's role in scrutinising the operations of both the administrative and the parliamentary executive. However, although I agree with virtually everything that was said in the report, it did not take into account certain recent developments in this chamber, whereby the Finance and Government Operations Committee has not only been reconstituted but has also been given the specific reference of the continuing oversight of finance, administration and accountability of statutory authorities, and bodies owned or controlled by the Commonwealth. That function is now being exercised, and I hope that it will be found to be exercised effectively and fully. I did not want to go unnoticed the fact that part of what was said about the need to change the terms of reference of the Public Accounts Committee did not take into account this most recent development in relation to the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial 
Relations whether he is aware that the Tasmanian State secretary of the Electrical Trades Union has sent out notices to union members stating that unless all electrical apprentices join the union within 14 days members are to refuse to work with them. Is this not a further attack on the traditional position of apprentices, which frees them from the requirement to join a union? Will action be taken to protect those electrical apprentices in Tasmania who do not wish to join the ETU? Do the recent amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act give added protection to such individuals from stand-over tactics exercised by union 'heavies'? 
Can the Minister for Education indicate the stage reached in the preparation of legislation for the Permanent Council for the Maritime College? Are the development and construction plans for the College proceeding with due expedition? 
-Time is short today and we do not have long to deal with a great number of matters; so I shall be as brief as possible. This is a matter of very considerable importance which should not be dealt with in the somewhat flippant or political way in which the Opposition has dealt with it today. I support the legislation. It is important legislation dealing with an important industry- an industry which is of great importance to my State of Tasmania and of very considerable importance to Australia as a whole. It is an industry which not only provides some of the basic foodstuffs to the people of Australia it is also an important export earner. It is an industry which has had its troubles. It is an industry which over recent years has had a great deal of troubles. Two things have happened recently, particularly to the industry in Tasmania but generally, which make the remarks of  Senator Gietzelt  totally inappropriate. One thing that has happened is that the industry is enjoying the best overseas markets for years, and that is something about which we all should be saying Thank God '. Thank God that an industry which has had these troubles is able at the moment to say that it will not need a government support scheme this year. The legislation proposes a continuation of the existing scheme which was barely used or barely necessary in the last season because the market returns to the producers were sufficient. It is expected that a similar situation will prevail in the forthcoming season. 
The last time legislation of this type came before the chamber I expressed my concern in more ways than one. I have been delighted to And that the fears I expressed at the time did not eventuate. It may be that next year this very volatile and variable overseas market will cause the Government to do more for the apple and pear growers of Australia. With the best overseas markets for a long time and with the introduction by this Government of the freight equalisation scheme, which has enabled the Tasmanian growers to compete on an equal basis in the Australian domestic market for apples and pears, the situation is not such as was described by  Senator Gietzelt.  Whilst I agreed with his general expressions of concern I felt that he was out of touch with the reality of the moment. So I do not accept his criticisms of the attitude of the Tasmanian members in the House of Representatives. Those Tasmanian members are far more sensitive and far more in touch with the reality of the situation than is  Senator Gietzelt.  The industry is, from every inquiry that I have been able to make, quite happy to accept the current proposal of $2 per box of apples. 
The honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  has battled very hard for the apple growers of Tasmania, and I believe that of the jobs that have been done by any member of the House of Representatives his has been an excellent job. In his speech, which is reported on page 2991 of the House of Representatives  Hansard,  of 7 November, he read a telegram which he received and which I believe is best summarised in the first few words of the telegram. The telegram is from  Mr Windas  Smith, the executive director of the State marketing authority in relation to apples, and it reads: 
Current maximum support of $2 per bushel for apples is appropriate . . . 
If  Mr Windas  Smith and the other industry representatives with whom I have spoken say that they regard the assistance as appropriate at the moment and that the scheme is unlikely even to be used this year, I am quite prepared to say that if the industry is happy there is no reason for the Parliament to intervene in the somewhat hypocritical way in which I believe the Labor Party's amendment has come before this chamber. It has come before the chamber from a party which did more to destroy primary industry in Australia than any other party has done in any similar period of government. I do not have the time to elaborate on that statement, but I do not think I need to. I think everyone in this chamber is familiar with what was done to destroy primary industry. Need I do more than simply say that the farmers of Australia, the primary producers, who were told by the former Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  that they had never had it so good, responded to him in very clear terms in December 1975 as they will again in December 1977. 
-I see that  Senator Gietzelt  feels that politics is a betting matter. I suppose it is a matter of chance at times. I do not think that there is any uncertainty at all as to what the Australian people will do in December. They will not be interested in re-electing the most disastrous government that it has ever been the misfortune of Australia to have to put up with. We could talk about what that Government did by way of the creation of inflation and the creation of unemployment and the destruction of primary industry in so many ways. If one were to get into a debate on those matters, a debate I would have thoroughly enjoyed had we had more time, one could talk about things like the Australian Rural Bank, which we are about to introduce and about which the Labor Party did nothing, and all the other things, but let us leave that to the hustings. 
I simply take the opportunity to indicate on behalf of Tasmanians that we will support the industry in the same way that we have in the past. If it needs fighting for, we will tight for it. If the apple turns sour in the future so far as overseas marketing is concerned, I am quite certain I speak for my Tasmanian colleagues in both Houses when I say that we will be the first to say to the Government that something needs to be done. At the moment I do not propose to support what I regard as a totally hypocritical political exercise by an opposition which has done more to destroy the people which it is now pretending it will help than has ever been done. 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry is further to the question asked by and answer given to  Senator Archer  in relation to the proposal by the Labor Government in Tasmania to give Japanese fishing interests special rights to fish in Tasmanian waters on some sort of survey basis. I ask: Under the proposal can the Minister indicate to what extent there will be Tasmanian participation in the provisioning of the Japanese ships and in the processing of the catch? I further ask: Is the Minister aware that the Commonwealth has chartered a trawl fishing survey vessel, the  Zeehaan  to conduct surveys in Tasmanian waters and that, on the face of it, that ship is capable of doing what is now proposed by the State Government to be given to the Japanese? Why cannot Australian ships conduct the survey? Is the Minister aware of the strong opposition from Tasmanian fishermen in relation to this proposal? The view expressed by the captain of the charter survey vessel is reported as follows:   . . investigations had revealed an invaluable trawl fish potential that he believed would extend right down Tasmania's west coast, 'lt could save the Tasmanian fishing industry from its downhill slide . . . ' 
The captain expressed the view: 
Let the Japanese onto these grounds for what they describe as a two-year survey and when they're finished there will be nothing left. 
Will the Minister ensure that there will be no sellout of Tasmanian fishing interests and that the fishery resource is not subjected to any form of over-fishing during any survey period? 
I regret the interlude which has just taken place and will try to forget it in my remarks; but I cannot forget that tonight we witnessed a further example of the recidivist tendency of the Labor Party Opposition- the tendency to go back rather than forward. We heard one of the best speakers in this Parliament, one of its best brains, one of the people I most respect in this Parliament,  Senator James  McClelland, going back to carry on the vendetta against a man who was formerly a friend and was appointed by the Labor Party to what I regard as the highest office in the landthat of Governor-General. 
It was a brilliant speech, brilliantly carried out by a man who is undoubtedly a very capable  speaker  and lawyer; but it was a pity that he had to use his talents to show that the Labor Party has still neither forgotten nor forgiven what it, in its paranoic way, believes was an injustice. I think the people of Australia, in December last, made a judgment on whether the paranoic of the Labor Party, in trying to rehash the events of November 1975, was justified. As a matter of fact, I was excited by  Senator James  McClelland 's speech tonight. I was glad to see him back in this chamber because his contribution here is always worth listening to; but I was disappointed to find that his talents were being used in again rehashing, in a backwardlooking way, an event upon which the people of Australia had twice given their very firm judgment. 
The 'We was robbed' syndrome upon which the Labor Party has seemed to exist has not made for good government. What it has done is to leave Australia in a situation where there is effectively no Opposition. The action of the former Governor-General in November 1975 obviously so stirred the Labor Party that tonight, when  Senator James  McClelland was speaking, it was regarded as an event in the life of that party. We had a lot of strangers in the gallery, as you  Mr President  might have noted. We had none other than  Mr Bowen,  who holds a wellknown position in the Labor Party;  Mr Hurford,  who holds a well-known position in the Labor Party;  Mr Michael  Young, who holds a wellknown position in the Labor Party; and  Mr Uren,  who holds a well-known position in the Labor Party. In fact we had a greater inundation of well-known members of the Labor Party from the other place than we have had in this chamber on any other occasion during the time that I have been here. In fact, most of them did not know, until they came here tonight to hear and gloat over  Senator James  McClelland 's attack, just where this chamber was. 
That is about the standard of interjection I expect from the honourable senator. I thank him for proving my point. It was obviously a matter involving some degree of gloating, some degree of excitement within the ranks of the so-called Opposition, that we should have heard tonight a very effective, if slightly vindictive, attack upon a man who was formerly a friend of the people who made the attack. I believe that the attempt by the Labor Party to overthrow parliamentary democracy in Australia, the attempt by the Whitlam Government to rule without Supply and to force the banks to provide the finance to enable the then Government to continue contrary to the democratic process had created a situation where the man with the responsibility for blowing the whistle and letting the people speak had to act. What was the reaction of the then Prime Minister? It was: 'I will smash the Senate '. 
No, he failed as the Labor Party failed as a government. The Labor Party said it would do so many things. By its failure to do them it created in Australia a disillusionment from which we are still suffering. To me the situation in November 1975 was reminiscent of some of the great battles between the Parliament and the Executive in the whole history of the development of parliamentary democracy in the relatively few parts of the world where it exists today. They were battles between the power of Executive government to say, 'I am the greatest', as Gough Whitlam said. He said: 'I am the greatest Foreign Minister Australia has ever had'. 
The statement by the former Prime Minister that he was the greatest Foreign Minister in Australian history exemplified in the minds of many Australian people what was so wrong with the members of the Party described by the Melbourne  Age  as behaving like a mob of schoolboys who had just found the key to the tuckshop which was unattended. They came in and pillaged. They pillaged the system in so many ways but this was never better demonstrated than by the attempt to hang on to power at a time when the democratic system in a bicameral democracy had reached the stage where the people were entitled to have their say. Have their say they did in very clear terms. I hope that we will have an Opposition which is concerned about tomorrow and not yesterday, which will forget its past misdemeanours and the attempt to justify them and start to look forward and produce plans, ideas and criticisms of what the present Government is doing, and some alternatives. 
It is gratuitous but I hope in the interests of Australia that even  Senator Button  will listen. I am delighted to see that he is still here. Surely it is the essence of the constitutional contract that someone should be able to blow the whistle on the Executive and say in effect: 'Hey, back to the people '. That is what democracy is all about. It is about the people being able to determine. When I hear some of the cries from politicians from both sides of the Parliament that they do not like having an election at a particular time because they might be a little unpopular I can say that they are condemned out of their own mouths. A government which cannot face the people at any time has totally failed in one of its major tasks. One of its major tasks is that of communication to the people it represents. 
If it cannot communicate with the people, if it cannot explain to them its objectives and why it is doing this or that it has failed in one of the major responsibilities of government. There should never be a fear of facing the people. They are the Parliament's masters. People are what the Parliament is all about. A parliament that resents and fears facing the people has commenced to take the first step down the road to autocracy. I object strongly to any suggestion that a parliament cannot be forced to go to the people whenever the people's representatives in either House of that Parliament suggest that the people should be able to have their say. That is what 11 November 1975 was all about. In my view whatever the man has done subsequently, in November 1975  Sir John  Kerr showed considerable courage and great constitutional propriety in making the decision he did. 
I want to talk a little further about the constitutional contract. I do not think it does any harm to remember that it was important in November 1975 that the Executive could be brought to answer to the people of Australia. So too must this chamber remember at all times that one of its most important functions is the preservation of the Constitution. In Australia there is a constant battle between centralism and federalism. It is not just a political battle; it is an economic and social battle. It is an attempt to offset some natural forces. Centripetal forces mean that there is always the likelihood in a nation such as Australia for the cream to be spun off to the centre of the system. It is important that we remember that people in Melbourne and Sydney exist in their multitudes as a result of the work and effort of the people from the mines of Mt Isa, the north-west of Australia or Tasmania. The standard of living of people in Melbourne and Sydney is brought about largely as a result of the exploitation of the natural resources distributed throughout our nation. Because they have greater numbers they have no absolute entitlement to run the country to the detriment of the people who live in other areas. 
One of the beauties of the Senate and one of the things which makes me say 'Thank God for the founding fathers' is that they had the courage, foresight and fortitude to insist on the creation of a system in which the Senate had equal representation from all the States and virtually equal powers with the House of Representatives. We are the only country in the world with such a system. I believe that we have the most successful form of government. The more I see the operation of forms of government in the rest of the world the more I congratulate the people who designed the Australian system. It is important that the people in this chamber should never forget the incredible responsibility which they have to keep a system of checks and balances. 
Whilst some Opposition senators like to interject from time to time, one of the things I like about this chamber is that a large number of Opposition senators feel substantially as I do about the work of this chamber. I have always appreciated that when we get down to the committees and what I regard as the real work of this chamber there is a preparedness to get on with the job and contribute without its being on some structured, already determined party political basis. That is one of the things of which this chamber can be proud. It has developed a committee system which, and I say this as somebody who had the opportunity to go to a number of other countries to study their committee systems, possibly is the best committee system in the world. I realise that he is here and may blush but I pay particular tribute to the  Clerk  of the Senate for the work for which he was responsible in relation to this development. I pay tribute to a number of other people but I do not want to name individuals. 
When in the 1960s the Senate came of age and started to accept its responsibility as a House of Review and started to say: 'We must stop being a rubber stamp, a semi-geriatric place and get out and do what the founding fathers in their wisdom thought we could do', it was not one individual who thought of these things. Rather it was the good will, thought and strength of a large number of people. However, there was one person who attempted to take the credit for it and I deprecate that. He attempted to take the full credit for the development of the committee system. As you well know,  Mr President,  and let anybody later deny it if he can, history shows that this was a matter which grew over a period of time amongst members of both parties, although there was a group within the Liberal Party which put forward a scheme. The scheme eventually went to the Standing Orders Committee which was about to present a report. The then Leader of the Labor Party in this place  Senator Murphy  marched into this chamber, used the exact words in the Standing Orders Committee report, including the typing mistakes, produced it as his own and claimed credit for it. 
I believe that it is time that we recalled that it was not simply the work of one man which produced the Senate committee system. It was the work of a lot of people. It was the work of the Standing Orders Committee which included members of all parties. It was the work and spirit of this chamber which produced the committee system, and thank God it did. I was sorry that there was a tendency for somebody with a public relations machine to attempt to take credit for what was not his own work. I applaud the extent to which he supported it but simply say that it was not his own work and the record should be set straight. 
Whilst we are talking about the forms and traditions of this chamber I take the opportunity to do two things. First I wish to congratulate our new senator,  Senator Haines,  on her maiden speech, but having done that I would like to add something further. I deprecate the fact that she misused the traditional immunity given to people making their maiden speeches. There is a tradition which has been observed by and large in this chamber and when it is not observed it should be commented upon. One of our traditions is that a person making a maiden speech will be heard in silence, will not be interjected upon and will not have points of order taken during the speech. I think that is fair enough and that it is a proper tradition. But there is a quid pro quo, as there often is, and it is that person making the speech uses the opportunity to tell the Senate and the people of Australia of their personal credo and to say not what is politically troversial but what they are all about as a person. 

 - Senator Cavanagh interjects by saying that that is rubbish.  Senator Cavanagh  is not well-known as a person who respects traditions. I simply suggest that the Senate has survived and developed by using and developing traditions that are worth while and that is one of the traditions which it has developed which is worth while. I do not believe that the role of this chamber and the respect between members of this chamber is enhanced by the breach of such a tradition. I would deprecate an interjection or a point of order being taken on a person making a maiden speech to the same extent that I would deprecate a breach of the quid pro quo rule. Whilst I am talking about our new senator whom I welcome here as the first representative of a new Australian party, which I congratulate upon the success it achieved in the December election, I raise a matter of concern in relation to that Party and I think it is fair enough to do so tonight. I have had a look at the apparent platform of that Party and among other things find, as a matter of some concern, that this Party, which has one member here already and two further members coming in July, suggests that 'we shall establish a joint parliamentary committee system covering every area of government activity'. If there is anything that is anathema to the independence of this chamber, to the separate existence of this chamber and to this chamber being able to fulfil its constitutional role relating to the scrutiny of the Executive and ensuring the accountability of the Executive, if there is anything which could destroy that it is a system of joint committees where the Senate is the poor relation of the greater number in the House of Representatives, where we are taken on suffrage in some way to do the bidding of the House which represents the executive government. 
I am grateful, indeed delighted, to find that  Senator Cavanagh  and I are able to agree. I suppose I could say that if one tries long enough one is bound to strike pay dirt. I hope that it was a lack of thought on the part of the new Party, which has demonstrated a tremendous virility in the Australian political system, which led it to talk about something which was so clearly an attack on the lifeblood of what I regard as the checks and balance system of Australian politics. I do not believe that it is typical of the sort of attitudes we can expect from that Party but it may be. 
The growth of the legislative and general purpose standing committees of this chamber and the growth of our Estimates committees is something of which we are all proud. It is something which regrettably has not been as well understood as it should have been by the average member of the Australian public. We had a situation where the Executive, over a period of 76 years, had happily created statutory authorities without the parliament ever creating a system to ensure that statutory authorities were answerable to the people who created them and the people who paid for them to a greater or lesser extent. When the Finance and Government Operations Committee created by this chamber as a standing committee set out on the task given to it by the Senate of looking at the statutory corporations, the first thing it found was that no one could produce a list of the statutory corporations created by this Parliament. What it also found was that there were some statutory corporations which had not reported to this Parliament for 30 or 40 years. It also found that the whole system has been haphazard, unsupervised and not scrutinised. It found out that some statutory corporations are answerable to audit and some are not. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate interrupted. 
-When the Address-in-Reply debate was adjourned last night, I had been referring to the development of the committee system within the chamber. I had made some reference to the situation which one of the committees- the one with which I am associated, the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations- had found when it started to undertake the task given to it by the Senate which was the overall scrutiny of the statutory authorities of Australia. I had mentioned the fact that one of the first things we discovered was that there was not even a list of all the statutory authorities created by the Parliament. There is no consistency in the form in which those authorities are required to account. There is no consistency in the question whether they are subject to audit or by whom they are subject to audit. 
I believe there is a large number of areas of concern in relation to that situation. Now the Parliament can be advised by one of its own committees as to what has been happening. It can receive some recommendations as to what should happen. That is one example of the type of function which I believe is most appropriate to this chamber. One of the further developments which is possible in the work of this chamber is to avoid the duplication and the relative waste of time which can take place when we have lengthy debates on legislation which has already been the subject matter of full debate in the House of Representatives in relation to policy and where the policy is of little relevance to the consideration of the legislation in this chamber. 
It seems to me that by the use of a legislation committee system which operates extemely satisfactorily in the House of Commons at Westminster we could avoid the waste of time, we could expedite the passage of legislation and we could make more interesting the operation of the work of this chamber. I mention that in passing. I do not wish to deal with it in great detail. The major point I make is that I believe that the whole of the Parliament has a tremendous responsibility at this time to ensure that its procedures are relevant to the day and age in which we live, that they are understood by the public and that they enhance the public attitude towards parliamentary democracy. 
I thank  Senator Button  for his comment. Perhaps I am an optimist, but I do believe that at a time when the public is critical and anxious, we should remember that its anxiety arises from a desire to ensure that the parliamentary system is effective. There is an overall concern in the community at the growth of big government, at the tendency for government to get bigger and more intrusive. There is a concern that big unions, big business and big government are running everything. In the works of not only Schumacher but others- and indeed it is a view that is held generally by a great number of people- it is suggested that there is something in the saying, 'Small is beautiful'; that there is good reason that the Parliament should ensure that government does not become all-powerful, or seem to be, or be thought to be. 
The Senate has a clear role in ensuring that. I think one of our troubles in Australia at the moment is that to quite an extent we are suffering from a hardening of the compassion artery as a result of the constant twitching of the hip pocket nerve as people have been required to pay more and more to cover the cost of compassionate action. I was intrigued during the recent election campaign, while in the field for some three weeks meeting hundreds of people in factories, timber mills, shops, pubs and other places that the one matter that was raised constantly by the average person was his concern about unemployment. But it was not a concern for the unemployed; it was a concern for the amount that it was costing the country to support people whom they regarded as not wanting to work. Everywhere one went it was raised by average employees- it was not a matter of management raising it- giving examples from their factory or mill, whatever it might be, of the sort of people that they regarded as bludgers and who ought to be required to do something for the community in return for the money they had been receiving from it. 
Repeatedly I had put to me by those sorts of people that there should be a scheme whereby, for about three days a week people in receipt of unemployment benefits should carry out some community service, do something of value to the community, give back something to those who had to provide the funds for their support. I must say that I was amazed at the frequency and strength of the comments which I received on that score. It is something which I take this opportunity to mention- not from any lack of personal concern for the plight of people who seriously wish to obtain employment and find difficulty in doing so- because one cannot but be impressed when one is told repeatedly by the average citizen that a large number of people are misusing that aspect of the system, for whom employment is available, but that they do not wish to take it. Repeatedly I was given in country towns in Tasmania examples of jobs which just could not be filled. It seems extraordinary. I was surprised and would have found it hard to believe had it not been for the regularity and frequency of the assertion. 
I think we must undertake a considerable analysis of the cause of unemployment in this country. We must determine to what extent our unemployment is the product of economic forces from outside, as it is so often said to be; what extent it is the product of disillusionment, of unfulfilled expectations, the product of what our young have been taught at school. There tends in a large number of schools to have been an emphasis on teaching children how to be unemployed. I know it is important, if there is a real unemployment problem in this country, that children attempting to enter the work force, should have some attention paid to their attitudes in this regard. It seems to quite a few of them that this is an easy way to cop out. The net result is that they say: 'I will try this dole lurk.' They leave good jobs or they do not care whether they find a job. They enjoy receiving something for nothing. It may very well be that they are not blameworthy for this attitude nearly to the same extent as those who created the social situation in which such an attitude can prevail may be blameworthy. 
I believe that a large degree of disenchantment with institutions which appear to have failed is rampant in our community. There has been a huge growth in expectations as governments have provided more and as we have become a better educated, better informed and materially better off community. So too have government parties and tended to compete with each other to offer more and more to people. All the time they were making offers with money which they would be taking from the people to whom they were making the offers. I believe that a considerable expectation was generated in the mind of the average person. That was the product not only of the desire for peace in relation to international affairs or the desire for prosperity in relation to general economic affairs but also a lot of other desires in relation to the type of society people believed was being created. People have seen that fail. 
Particularly serious to Australians was the disillusionment which resulted from the failure of the 1972-1975 period of government. In 1972 Australians determined that the Liberal and Country parties had been a little dull and that they were not providing a sufficient degree of excitement or contemporary recognition of the desires of the people. They threw us out and elected the Labor Party with great expectations as to what it would provide in government. How disastrous was the result; how destructive of the expectations which people had. How disillusioning it was for the people of Australia to find that not only did the Labor Party not provide the type of government for which they had hoped, it even made a most disastrous hash of managing the economy. This aspect was not to the forefront of the thoughts of the average person in 1972. We had been going through a period of economic stability. Economic management was not thought of. Now we have seen the pendulum swing to the stage where at the last election in December the management of the economy was probably the only issue. People disillusioned and frightened by some of the experiments of the period of 1972 to 1975 were not prepared to join in any further experiments or even ask for them. 
I believe that underlying that there is still a desire by people to build up a nation which has something more to it than mere material wellbeing In our struggle to overcome the ills of the economy that should not be forgotten. In our analysis of the causes of unemployment we have to look not only to the structure of our manufacturing industry and other matters which 'have received a lot of discussion but also to the importance of the growth of new employment opportunities through the service industries which are able to provide major opportunities for new jobs in Australia and similar countries. It is not a matter of producing more; it is a matter of finding a way to satisfy people's desires other than by planned obsolescence of produced material goods. 
In this respect tourism is of vital importance. It is an industry which employs as much as 10 per cent of the Australian work force. 
It is a major growth area which, if given adequate encouragement and recognition, could provide considerable job opportunities, particularly on a decentralised basis, for a wide crosssection of the community, for people of all ages and both sexes. It is one of the things that people want. They want the opportunity to learn from, to see, relax with and to use the products of the society which we have created- the material products and the knowledge which people better informed and better educated now have. There is an opportunity for the better use of leisure time but I am not sure that we are adequately providing the ways in which people can have appropriate choices as to the use of their leisure time. 
Finally, I refer briefly to the need for this Parliament at all times to engage in a degree of what may be called futurology or what is called by Alvin Tofler anticipatory democracy. It can be best summed up as ensuring that in the thought which is given to the solution of current problems and the decisions which are now taken we look far enough ahead to what those decisions may mean in a few years time when we live in an economic and social society in which the rate of change has become the most dramatic feature. We have a tendency to fail to look far enough ahead in our decision-making processes. It is interesting that the United States Congress has now decided that all its committees in their work will have specified regard to the future impact of their recommendations. This is a little like the environmental impact statements which have become part of the planning process of Australian government. In the United States the future impact of those decisions has become a standard part of the operation, a matter to be specifically adverted to and assessed, where we have technology raging ahead in the development of new and different opportunities for mankind we must be careful to ensure that we look far enough ahead in the decisions that we take. 
A good example of failure to look far enough ahead was the disastrous period of the 1972-75 
Government. I trust that my own Government will not fall into a similar trap. If it becomes totally concentrated in its concern to overcome the economic ills of Australia it may let opportunities pass by and may create situation in Australia which will take a long time to correct. One example of this is the unemployment situation. If we develop in Australia a group of permanently unemployed people, who gradually will become unemployable, we could have this situation with us for the remainder of their lifetime. It could become an entrenched part of society. I therefore urge consideration of every possible way of ensuring that unemployment on a large scale does not become part of our way of life. 
I not only support the proposed AddressinReply but also take this opportunity to compliment the new Governor-General,  Sir Zelman  Cowen, on the manner in which he delivered the Speech. I believe that he performed a difficult task because reading somebody else 's speech is never something into which one can put great feeling but he carried out that difficult task with feeling, a degree of humanity and even a slight degree of whimsical humour in recognising some of the matters around him. I take this opportunity to compliment him on the manner of the delivery of his speech. (  Quorum formed). 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce indicate what stage has been reached in the consideration of the employment-generating plan which was contained in a submission made to the Government by the Australian National Travel Association? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I have not had time to check it, but does the amendment not mean that there could be two debates on matters of public importance in one day? Is that what is desired? There has not been any discussion of the possibility of more than one matter of public importance on the same day. I wonder whether that is really intended. 
I broadly support the recommendation of the Standing Orders Committee but do not wish to deal with matters that have already been dealt with. Instead I wish to indicate first that the amendment proposed by  Senator Chaney  has some merit. It seems to me that there is - 
The amendment which  Senator Chaney  proposes to move. 
I will wait for the mirth not unnaturally created by that and my embarrassment to subside a little. I realise that messages passed across the chamber as to whether somebody has spoken are not always accurately received. It is my understanding that  Senator Chaney  proposes to move an amendment which he undoubtedly will outline and, having had an opportunity to discuss it with him, I indicate in advance that I think his is a good idea. 
I wish to make a number of other comments while on my feet. Another point which is somewhat pedantic but which I think it is important to clear up while we have the opportunity relates to the present Standing Order 64 which provides for a motion to be moved and then supported by four other senators standing in their places. I am not sure whether the new proposal means the same thing or whether a change is intended. Proposed new standing order 64 (2 ) states that the senator proposing the matter shall hand in to the  President  at least 90 minutes before the time fixed for the meeting of the Senate and on that day only a written statement, supported by the signatures of at least four other senators, of the matter proposed to be discussed that day. It seems that that provision will ensure that the same procedure will prevail. I presume that it is not intended to make any change. 
Therefore, it is a matter simply of getting four signatures in advance. Would it make the position of the independent senator or senator from a small party any more difficult than it was previously? 
Will somebody explain why it would? 

 - Senator Harradine says that he will explain that. I think that this is important. The Senate ought to be looking to the interests of the smaller parties and independent senators. The proportional representation system of voting for this chamber provides an opportunity for those interested to be represented. We need to be mindful of that in drafting the Standing Orders. I have raised this matter on the basis of encouraging those who think this proposition will adversely affect in some way the position of minority groups in this chamber to explain to us in what way that will happen. With those brief anticipatory comments, I conclude my speech. I support the proposition generally. 
I regard this matter as the matter of greatest moment in the Standing Orders Committee report. It is a matter about which a number of Estimates committees have been concerned. It has been before this chamber on a number of occasions. On several occasions Estimates Committee F has made unanimous recommendations. Basically it relates to the desire that Senate Estimates committees become more effective than they have been in the past. It is not in any way an attack upon their current effectiveness; it is a desire to make them more effective. Of necessity, there is a relatively short period of time between the production of the background material that is made available for the use of honourable senators in examining the estimates and the actual hearings which take place. In that time it is very difficult to make a thorough examination of the Estimates. The provision of assistance by experienced, permanent staff would be conducive to the development of a higher level of examination by the Senate on behalf of the people. 
We understand that it may well be difficult to enlarge in any substantial way the staff of the Senate at this stage. As a short term measure we favour the use of the secretariat which already exists and which contains a significant number of highly qualified, specialist staff who are associated in particular with the legislative and general purpose standing committees. We suggest that some of those staff members may be able to be made available to the Estimates committees for a week or two during the preparatory period immediately before the Senate Estimates committees sit and during the actual sitting period to give some extra specialist research assistance to the whole of a committee in the preparation of the examination of the Estimates. I regard that as being something that could be done at this stage. The only detriment would be to delay slightly the work of the general standing committees. However, it would be to the advantage of carrying out another extremely important function of the Senate, that is, examination of the 
Estimates. I hope the day will soon arrive when we can take the further step which has been recommended positively by Estimates Committee F and other committees, that is, that there be full time staff so that there can be an examination throughout the whole year of what is going on in the departments and a building up on behalf of the Estimates committees of a more continuous role. 
When these suggestions were first made it was stated that in the interests of gradualism we should start off with the introduction of the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations and that the matter could be then discussed further by the Senate. I should like further discussion to take place tonight. Therefore, I shall not take any longer than I have to outline briefly the history and objective of what has been repeatedly proposed in this chamber. It has been carried unanimously by this chamber as a matter to be referred, with support, to the Standing Orders Committee. I believe the proposition has the general support of the Senate. I hope that the net result of this discussion will be re-affirmation by the Senate of the unanimous attitude it has previously adopted that these steps should be taken to help develop further fulfilment of the role of the Estimates committees. If that step were taken we could therefore expect the Standing Orders Committee to reconsider this proposal at an early stage and put a firm proposition for at least the secondment of the permanent existing secretariat staff to assist the Estimates committees and shortly thereafter the development of a further and more continuing role with some full time assistance for the Estimates committees. We should at least take the first step and examine further the cost and practicality of the second. 
I was glad to hear  Senator Haines  speak tonight on behalf of her State. I take the opportunity to support some of the general sentiments that she expressed. I support the Bill. I oppose the amendment which seeks to add to the motion that the Bill be read a second time an expression of opinion by the Senate. I commence by endorsing the remarks made by my colleagues  Senator Jessop  and  Senator Davidson  in relation to the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution. I also endorse the remarks of  Senator Mulvihill  who was a very vigorous member of that Committee which produced a report that commenced with this introduction which I read to the Senate: 
Australia is the driest continent in the world. About onethird of it is desert; more than half of it receives an average annual rainfall of less than 15 inches; and the average annual rainfall on the mainland is 16.5 inches, compared with 26 inches for all land areas in the world and 29 inches for the United States. Even in the higher rainfall areas, falls tend to be seasonal, or erratic, or both. 
The next part really puts into perspective the problems relating to our water resources. The report says: 
The continent's annual volume of run-off has been estimated at 200 million acre-feet. This represents an average depth of  i'A  inches, compared with 9% inches for all land surfaces of the world and 9 inches for the United States. 
Because some parts of the world receive very high rainfalls, I do not think that the world average is nearly as relevant as the comparison of our situation to that of the United States. It is well known that the United States has substantial desert areas and yet it has just on eight times the run-off of the continent of Australia. When we in the Senate debate the question of the provision of moneys and support for a scheme involving financial assistance for national' water resources we should be conscious of these facts and we should support the measures. I believe further to the comments made by preceding senators in relation to the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution report that although, if I may put it this way, a lot of water has flowed under the bridge since that report was presented, the Senate could well consider whether it should appoint a similar committee to update that report. This is not a matter of triviality. It is a matter of life or death, to the continent of Australia. I notice my colleague  Senator Davidson  agreeing with me. I hope that there is a general feeling in this chamber that one of Australia's essential requirements is the very careful management of its water resources, careful husbanding of those resources, A Senate committee, if appointed, might be able to update the recommendations which were made previously. 
At this stage I do not want to deal in great detail with the National Water Resources (Financial Assistance) Bill. If some of my comments appear to be Committee stage comments I hope I shall be forgiven. My comments deal with the generalities in relation to the Bill. The second reading speech mentions projects, and the definition is contained in the definition clause. I notice that conspicuously absent is any reference to preserving the living resources in the waters, as well as to the waters themselves. Without water the living resources die, as is being found at Lake Eyre at the moment. It went through an extremely unusual period of being full. It had huge quantities of wildlife on the surface and a wide variety of life beneath the surface. That is now almost at an end. I believe that Australia must pay attention not only to conserving its water resources and the quality of those waters from pollution but also to ensuring that the ecological chain is maintained. I simply mention to the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  who in this chamber represents the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  that perhaps some thought could be given to whether there is not room for some addition to the definition of project. 
I draw attention to the detail of the amendment which seeks to add these words:   but the Senate is of the opinion that separate enactments should have been provided for each water resources project. ' 
I can think only that when that amendment was moved by  Senator Walsh  he did not have regard to the forms of the Senate, to the nature of the Senate and to developments taking place within the Senate. Clause 6 of the Bill provides: 
The Minister shall cause a copy of every agreement, including every amending agreement, to be laid before each House of the Parliament within 15 sitting days of that House after the date on which the agreement is made. 
It also provides in clause 7 sub-clause (2) that payments shall be made from the Consolidated Revenue Fund and shall be available under an appropriation made by the Parliament for that purpose. The Senate has been at some pains to ensure that all appropriations are scrutinised and subject to full accountability by the committees of this chamber. It is my belief that the amendment moved by  Senator Walsh  is in direct conflict with the whole way in which the chamber has been developing which would ensure that the fears which are apparently expressed in the honourable senator's amendment cannot be fulfilled. 
Prior to the development of the Senate committee system I would have agreed with him. I now disagree with him because I believe that he is taking away from and denying the efficaciousness of the Senate committee system. I do not think it is necessary to express that opinion. I believe that we shall have adequate opportunity, pursuant to clause 6, to ensure that the enactments of agreements are scrutinised and subject to debate and that, in relation to the appropriation of money, through the Estimates committees and other committees of the Senate, we shall have adequate opportunity to ensure that those matters are scrutinised and discussed to the extent which honourable senators believe are necessary. 
In relation to this proposal I raise two points. The first is of relevance to my State of Tasmania. In 1 974 a commitment was given by the present 
Government, when in Opposition, that Commonwealth funds would be made available for the construction of the Warner Creek Dam. It was stated that it was estimated at that time that the dam would cost some $2m. It was regarded as having a high priority on a cost-benefit basis. According to the experts reports it was certainly one of the best cost-benefit analysis projects in Australia. It would provide not only irrigation water but also domestic consumption water for a significant area of Tasmania. The project could be provided at a very low cost. Although the cost has escalated since 1974 it is still low in comparison with other water schemes. It would use an existing water system simply to bank up some water by a very cheap dam in the headwaters area which would ensure a flow throughout the year. I understand that the Tasmanian Government has expressed some concern as to the exact Commonwealth intention in relation to the project because the Bill does not spell out intentions. Rather, the Bill provides the opportunity for the Government to go ahead and to negotiate agreements with the States. In the light of a very firm commitment given by our parties when in Opposition I again invite the Minister, at the appropriate time, to indicate the thinking of the Government in relation to this project which is certainly one of the most important national water resources projects. 
I ask the Minister to endeavour to clarify whether the Government, which I assume has given full consideration to this project, proposes that money should be made available by way of loan or grant. What contribution, if any, is expected by the Government of Tasmania to the capital cost of this very cheap project? Are there any general guidelines available to enable State governments to assess national water resource projects when making submissions to the Federal Government in relation to this or any other project which the States may have in mind? As I understand the project it has the support of local government and of the State Government if they can finance it. The project was the subject of a firm promise by the present Government when it was in Opposition. I take this opportunity to raise the matter because it is of considerable interest and concern to the people of the area. The project has been investigated and recommended on a number of occasions. I trust that it will be the first project which receives the acceptance of the Commonwealth under the Bill which we are about to pass. One might almost say that if that happens I would believe that we could not have been more appropriate in our support of the Bill. 
I have one further comment about our national water resources. I shall take up a little further the comment I made about that resource including not only the water but what is it in. The Australian Fresh Water Fishermen's Assembly, which is a national body comprising all organisations interested in inland fish in Australia, has expressed considerable concern over procedures for the importation of living fish. It has suggested that the risk of importation of fish species which constitute a threat to Australia's fresh water fisheries and particularly to our native fish exists as a result of the lack of procedures regarding the importation of living fish from other lands. The Assembly suggested that the risk of importation and establishment of environmentally deleterious organisms, other than fish, exists in Australia. That must be a matter of considerable concern to those interested in the national health of the country. 
The Assembly also talked about the risk of importation of diseases presently exotic to Australia, that is exotic in relation to man, plants and animals. It made a number of recommendations, namely that the list of species of fish currently permitted entry to Australia requires urgent critical revision to exclude any species which may reasonably be suspected of posing a threat to the well being of Australian native fishes, or of existing populations of desirable imported species. It also suggested that existing examination and quarantine measures for imported live fish and their containers are insufficient to give reasonable assurance of exclusion from Australia of exotic plants and animals which could have an adverse impact upon the Australian environment. 
I pause to indicate that I understand that the importation of fish is big business in Australia. Nobody suggests that the business should be unreasonably interfered with but simply that safeguards should be taken. The majority of those fish come from South East Asia, particularly from Singapore and other areas that are not noted for the high quality of their water resources. The danger is that the importation of fish in containers which hold water from other countries may result in the introduction into Australia of diseases which may affect man, plants or animals. Another danger is that organisms of various sorts which can affect the water resources in Australia also may be introduced in this way. This is a matter that deserves serious consideration by the Parliament and the Government. 
Thank you,  Senator Baume.  I am delighted to find that others are expressing concern about this matter. I believe that it is appropriate to raise the subject in a debate on this Bill because, as I mentioned earlier, the Bill does not mention the question of what lives in the water. I understand that there has not been any firm indications from the Government as yet of what its attitude may be to the submission from the Australian Freshwater Fishermen's Assembly. I believe that the Government is still considering the submission. I am not suggesting that it is unreasonable that no such indication has been given. I simply take the opportunity to urge that the matter be given attention as soon as possible. The future of the Australian environment and the health and well-being of the Australian people and Australia's water resources and flora and fauna are at stake in this regard. 
Finally, I take the opportunity to say that I am not suggesting and I am sure that the Australian Freshwater Fishermen's Assembly is not suggesting that the importation of private aquarium fish should not be allowed. I am simply saying that adequate quarantine measures should be applied to ensure that the importation of these fish does not involve a risk to our community. I support the Bill and I oppose the amendment for the reasons I have outlined. I believe the amendment constitutes almost an affront to what the Senate has achieved by way of assistance to ensure that the fears implicit in it are not likely to be fulfilled. 
-I would like to pursue a little further with the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  the guidelines and the general principles of the legislation which were outlined to the State Premiers. Perhaps I could raise a series of questions and obtain some answers from the Minister. The Minister mentioned that the guidelines were made available to the State Premiers in the latter part of last year. I ask whether it is possible for those guidelines to be made available to honourable senators and to be published generally. If it is not possible to do this, can the Minister indicate whether they set down a fixed system which will apply to all schemes or whether the schemes will be varied? For example, will some of the schemes be funded on a basis of some grant money and some loan money, some by all grant or all loan, some by matching dollar for dollar and some without any contribution from the State? In other words, what variations will apply, and is it possible for honourable senators to obtain details? Again, I remind the Minister that there was a specific commitment by the Commonwealth Government to construct the Warner Creek dam. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I ask: Further to my previous questions on the subject, and in the light of the particular problems being experienced by a number of Tasmanian industries, particularly in Hobart, can the Minister indicate when the review of the rates applicable under the freight equalisation scheme which was promised to be made by December last will be published? 
I would like to add to what the Minister has said in relation to the matters raised by  Senator Cavanagh. Senator Cavanagh  gave the impression that there was nothing this chamber could do in relation to the appropriation of moneys under this Bill for specific projects. I suggest that the senator appears to be wrong. It is my understanding that any appropriations made under this Bill will be dealt with in the Appropriation Bills but they will be part of the capital expenditure- they will not be part of the ordinary annual services- and therefore amendable by this chamber should it wish to do so. The concern expressed by  Senator Cavanagh  is misconceived. It seems to me that there can be no real doubt that they will not form a part of the ordinary annual services. 
Any appropriations for any projects under this National Water Resources (Financial Assistance) Act, when it is passed, will be dealt with by the Estimates Committee as Document B; that is, they will be part of the appropriations which are not ordinary annual services and which are amendable by the Senate. So if the Senate wished to do so, it could specifically amend the Bill in relation to any aspect of expenditure under this proposed legislation. That being so, and with all the other factors that have been referred to, including the development of a whole committee system enabling full debate and full scrutiny to take place, I believe that  Senator Cavanagh  is tilting at windmills when he expresses his concern. Bona fide though it may have been, I believe that it was misconceived. 
I want to refer to questions that have been raised such as the reconstitution of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution and questions which  Senator Jessop  and others have referred to about the attitude towards the major recommendation of the former committee in relation to the creation of a national water commission on a federal basis. As one of those who was quite closely involved in the development of that concept, I can say that it was certainly done on a federalist and not a centralist basis. I again ask the Minister whether there is any comment which he feels able to make, or whether alternatively he can recognise comments by specifically referring them to the Minister on the basis that they will come back here for a further opportunity for discussion in this chamber. It is quite clear that there is considerable interest in this chamber in being able to pursue these matters further. 
For the information of honourable senators, I present a report of the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations relating to its inquiry on the subject of Public Service computer use. As the report is very brief, I seek leave to read it to the Senate. 
Leave granted. 
The report states: 
Report by the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations on Public Service Computer Use 
On 31 March 1977 the Senate referred to the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations Tor investigation and report-Public Service Computer Use'. This matter was referred again to the Committee by the Senate on 28 February 1978. 
Both references came from Estimates Committees. The report continues: 
The Committee reported to the Senate on 1 June 1977 that because the subject was being investigated by the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, this Committee proposed to take no further action on the reference. 
The Joint Committee of Public Accounts has informed me that its investigation of the subject has continued satisfactorily. 
That Committee has sought and received submissions from the following departments and statutory bodies: Department of Construction; Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation; Public Service BoardMANDATA Inter Departmental Committee re Computer Use; Telecom; Department of Statistics; Department of Finance. 
The submissions received were based on a questionnaire prepared by the Public Accounts Committee. 
To date six days of public hearings have been held. These hearings covered the MANDATA project of the Public Service Board. 
Because of the complexity of the subject matter the Public Accounts Committee is engaging consultants to analyse the evidence received in public hearings and to assist the Committee in the preparation of its report. 
The Public Accounts Committee is not expected to report on this matter until October or November 1978. 
In view of the fact that the Public Accounts Committee inquiry is proceeding and consistent with the attitude expressed by the Senate in adopting the second report of the Standing Orders Committee on 15 March 1977, that is that committees should attempt to avoid duplication of inquiries, this Committee will therefore take no further action on the subject pending the report of the Public Accounts Committee. 

 Mr President, I present a report of the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations on the Australian National Gallery annual report for 1975-76. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to move a motion that the Senate take note of the paper. 
Leave granted. 

 - Mr President, I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
I will briefly outline the nature of the report. Since May 1977 the Committee has been undertaking a continuing oversight of the financial and administrative affairs of Commowealth statutory authorities and other bodies which the Commonwealth owns or controls, including the appropriateness and significance of their practice in accounting to the Parliament. On 21 September, 1977 the Senate referred the National Gallery report to the Committee for investigation as to the reasons for the delay in its presentation. The Senate wished to seek an explanation for the report which covered a period of only 27 daysthat is, from 3 June 1976 to 30 June 1976- taking 1 5 months to be presented to the Parliament. 
The report was the first annual report of the Australian National Gallery. It consisted of only 32 lines of typescript and noted that the Gallery neither incurred expenditure nor received income during the period. The Committee considered that the adequacy of the annual report of the Australian National Gallery should be examined as well as the time delay in its presentation. The Committee collected evidence from the National Gallery and the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. 
As our report indicates, several factors were responsible for the delay in presenting the Gallery's Report. Firstly, there was confusion as to whether a report was necessary at all as the National Gallery Act 1975 had been proclaimed for only 27 days of the financial year covered by the report. During this time expenditure of the Gallery had been undertaken from the appropriations of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. Secondly, during this period the Gallery was hampered by a shortage of staff, as evidenced by a lack of documentary support as to when the report was forwarded to the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. Thirdly, and most significantly, there was confusion caused by the question of the Gallery's acquisition policy. 
On 23 February 1977 the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  announced that a statement of the acquisition policy was being prepared and it was understood by the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet that it would be presented to the Parliament in the autumn sittings together with the report of the Gallery for 1975-76. The Department decided to hold over presenting the report. The reasons given for the lack of content in the Gallery's report included the Prime Minister's directive of 12 July 1976 seeking economy in the preparation of annual reports, the Crown Solicitor's advice that due to the short time period and the fact that no expenditure was incurred only a brief report would be necessary and the advice given by the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet to the Gallery Council that it could not report on the activities of the previous Interim Council because it had been abandoned. 
The Committee accepts the validity of these explanations for the delay in presenting the report and for its lack of content. More importantly, it also noted the assurances of those involved that no disrespect to Parliament was intended and that no repetition of the incident will occur. However, the Committee indicated to the National Gallery and the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet the importance placed by the Parliament on all statutory authorities ensuring that the requirements of their governing Acts are complied with, particularly in relation to the prompt presentation of annual reports. Moreover, in the case of the report under investigation, the Committee felt that some background could have been provided on the Gallery's activities, in spite of the difficulties involved. The Committee is currently preparing a separate report in relation to the general question of parliamentary oversight of statutory authorities. I would like to take the opportunity at this stage to indicate the Committee's endorsement of the recommendations of the Joint Committee on Publications in relation to the presentation of reports to Parliament. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Withers)  adjourned. 
-I think that so far the debate has been most useful, and I hope it continues in this vein. When the proposition which came from Estimates Committee F was put forward it was recognised that perhaps the realities of political life are that one should not ask for too much when one has a government which regards the curtailment of government expenditure as important. In view of that, I think it would be unreasonable to ask the Government to expand dramatically the staff of the Parliament. That is my answer to  Senator Cavanagh.  He said that the Parliament surely should not be curtailed. In no way are we suggesting any curtailment. In fact, what we are suggesting is an expansion as soon as possible. I think that there is a significant difference between the two approaches. I hope that that expansion can occur very soon. 
The recommendation to use temporarily the secretariat which exists was a way of saying: 'Let us give it a try; it ought to be better'. I say this notwithstanding anything that  Senator Baume  has said. It ought to be better than nobody applying himself at all. I believe that a number of the people in the secretariat of the standing committees who I know reasonably well would be able to contribute substantially to the consideration of the Estimates. I should like to see them used this session when we consider the Supplementary Estimates. Let us give it a try and see what people think. Then let us consider further the proposition put forward by  Senator Withers  and others concerning staff and decide which approach we should follow: The approach suggested by  Senator Withers  of providing extra personal staff or the alternative suggested by Estimates Committee F and agreed to by other honourable senators, namely, increasing the Senate bureaucracy'- to use that shorthand term. I suggest that today the Senate should pursue the idea of seconding members of the standing committee staff as a trial for the purpose of assisting in the consideration of the next supplementary appropriations. We can have further discussion after all. The supplementary appropriations will be coming up in the relatively near future. The seconding of staff can be done without any added expense. That can be done to gain further experience. I take the opportunity to add a little further to what  Senator Withers  said about the options open for an increase in the bureaucracy or in the number of personal staff available to members. 
Yes, maybe a combination of the two. I shall make a comment about the bureaucracy side. That is a matter to which we need to give some thought. I do not wish to criticise any particular appointments or people but rather to talk about the system. I wonder whether it is appropriate that all appointments to the committee secretariat staff should be made without direct or even indirect consultation with the  chairman  and members of the committees to which staff are appointed. To me it seems rather important that a committee which has some ideas of how it wants to operate should at least be consulted about the sorts of qualifications it might desire for its secretary. I have not the slightest doubt that good choices have been made in the past and will continue to be made. But I am concerned that the system does not include a degree of consultation. I would have thought that that was good manners or good sense, if nothing better, and certainly good practice. 
I further make the point that I wonder whether we should not also be considering the problem of the lack of promotion. We tend to get good people on the Senate secretariat staff. Since we started to develop the committee system most of the secretaries, particularly the younger members, have gone off to other, higher posts in the Public Service. We tend to lose a lot of the good people who have gained considerable experience. I wonder whether that position should not be reviewed. Perhaps there should be some degree of promotion available and an increase in salary to attract people to stay at least for a longer period within the structure of the Senate secretariat. I suggest that those points be given further consideration. I shall comment for a moment on  Senator Wriedt  's suggestion that we get in some management consultants. I could barely resist picturing  Senator Wriedt  with a lump in his cheek as he was saying that. I wonder whether his tongue was there. 
I just wondered. To me it seems that while there could be advantages in attempting to find some management consultants who had some idea about Parliament, the best thing the Parliament could do would be to subject itself to a parliamentary committee of inquiry. This would be better than having a number of people who do not necessarily know much about Parliament asking: 'Why do you do this? Why do you do that? Why do you do something else?' I do not know of any management consultants in the country who would have the foggiest idea how Parliament should go about its work. What I think could be useful would be somebody- not necessarily an expensive consultantasking a few more times than we do why we do something in a particular way. That is my comment in relation to  Senator Wriedt  's suggestion. I do not think we necessarily need management consultants. Perhaps we should try to gather a few jurors off the street and ask them to ask us why we do something in a particular way. 
That is what I am suggesting. I do not know of anybody who would have much expertise. I think it would be useful to have a few people asking why we do something in a particular way and suggesting that perhaps we should do it some other way. It could be a suggestion which just comes to them. It is more important that instead of somebody coming to advise us we get somebody to make us get out of any of the strait-jackets or ruts which we may have got into by asking the question why we do something this way or that way. 
I am agreeing with the honourable senator. I am adding a gloss. I am not sure that management consultants are the best way to achieve a result. We need to look at the situation and say that nothing is sacred. We should examine the matter to see where we can make improvements. I finish by urging that we get some comment about whether the Estimates Committee F suggestion of the secondment of standing committee secretariat staff for the purposes of the supplementary appropriations can be considered on a trial basis, with discussions thereafter. 
I should like to respond briefly to  Senator Harradine  's invitation to explain a little further what those who have been urging this course of action may have in mind in relation to members of minority parties. When we debated the procedure for raising matters of public importance, I said that members of minority parties and independents should be able to have a fair go. I now say that in no way at all do I see it as being desirable that an independent or minor party member should be excluded from the opportunities which are available to other members of the Senate to serve on Estimates committee. On the other hand, the operation of the Senate Estimates committee system should not be held to ransom in some way because a senator happens to be an independent or a member of a minority party. I see what  Senator Harradine  was raising as a legitimate matter for him to raise from the point of view of asking 'How are you going to help me? ' But what he said is not a legitimate argument against the step which was being suggested. When he talked about staff being made available to a committee whose  chairman  is a member of the Government parties and on which the Government has a majority, it seemed to me that he started to confuse the argument a little. It so happens that there is an equal number of members from both the Government and the Opposition on the Committee with the  chairman  having a casting vote. It is not accurate to say that the Government has a majority; it has a casting vote majority. The real question is: How do we ensure that we cater for and provide an adequate opportunity for minorities within the chamber? 
That ought to be the question, in my view. 
I thought the honourable senator was asking under whose direction the staff would come. 
The honourable senator was saying also that any honourable senator has the right to assistance. He asked how an individual senator obtains the right to assistance. 
The honourable senator says that his point was limited to that. I am suggesting that for a trial period there should be a secondment of existing staff so that no extra staff has to be employed for the purposes of the trial. That staff would be seconded to the committee in the normal way that the secretariat staff works for a committee, that is, in liaison with the  chairman  at the direction of the committee. Obviously, the committee would meet and discuss what work it wished the secretariat staff to undertake on its behalf. The product of that work would be available to all members of the committee. I see no reason why another honourable senator who is not a member of the committee but who has an interest in attending subsequently the hearings of the Estimates committees and who can participate but not vote should not also attend that preparatory meeting so that he can have some opportunity to make an input into what sort of preparation work would be conducted and have the product of that preparation work made available to him. It ought to be made available to any honourable senator who expresses a desire to have it made available. In my view, it ought not to be the preserve of individual members of the committee, as if it were some massive state secret. Rather, it is a matter of organising the opportunity for the most effective work to be done by those honourable senators who are members of the committee or who are otherwise interested in the work of the committee. 
I do not see any relevance in the matter raised by  Senator Harradine.  He asked under whose direction the staff would come and whether it would really become just a stooge of the Government in some way. That was the impression being given. That was really an attack on the whole committee staffing system. I think that our standing committees work well, notwithstanding the fact that Government senators are appointed as chairmen and have a casting vote. I think that our Estimates committees have worked well notwithstanding the fact that Government senators have been appointed as chairmen and have a casting vote. The fact that Government senators are committee chairmen and therefore have the closest constant liaison with the secretariat staff of the standing committees has not caused any great concern, so far as I know, in the actual operation of this chamber. I see the real and important question as being how we ensure that individual members of the Senate get an adequate opportunity to join with the members of committees in obtaining the advantage of any work which is done. I have made my suggestions in that regard. Otherwise, I think that  Senator Harradine  was expressing an unjustified concern. 
I respond briefly to  Senator Cavanagh  to get the sequence clear. Senate Estimates Committee F first recommended an expanded role for the Estimates Committees to a year-round function because it was conscious of the fact that no detailed estimates were provided for over 50 per cent of the total appropriations. It saw it as being necessary that there be a system whereby a scrutiny could take place. It made a recommendation to the Senate, and the Senate accepted that recommendation and referred the matter to the Standing Orders Committee. The Standing Orders Committee reported that at that stage it believed that it was better to re-create the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations and to give to that function that single standing committee rather than for all the Estimates committees to have the function throughout the year. What was suggested at that stage was a change so that, instead of all of the Senate Estimates committees having the function throughout the year, one standing committee would have the function throughout the year. I think Estimates Committee F has now accepted that point. That is why its later report contains a recommendation that extra assistance be available at the times when the Estimates committees meet, which normally is twice a year. 
No, but Estimates Committee F accepted that when the Standing Orders Committee made the recommendation for new Standing Order 36ab the Senate held a different view. The most recent report of Estimates Committee F, which again raises this question of the secondment of staff and the provision of some extra staff, is more limited than the first one because of the events that have taken place and the provisions that have been adopted by the Senate in the meantime. 
The second recommendation still is that some secretariat staff should be made available to Estimates committees, notwithstanding the fact that the Senate also has given the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations the function of looking at statutory authorities throughout the year. With the assistance of staff, the Estimates committees can still carry out that function better and in greater depth, particularly in the preparation of questions on the Estimates submitted to them. 
At this stage I accept what  Senator Withers  said, namely, that following this discussion the  President,  being cognisant of the debate that has taken place, as he has indicated, will give consideration to the rearrangements which are directly within his power. 
The other matters which have been discussed during this debate should be considered further by the Standing Orders Committee in order to see whether any alteration of the Standing Orders is required. I do not think it would be proper to try to draft amendments to the Standing Orders here, in the Committee of the Whole. I think it is proper that after this discussion the matter be referred back to the Standing Orders 
Committee, and I accept the assurance that that is what will happen. 
-Senator Button has drawn our attention to what I believe is an important matter to which the Senate should give some passing thought, and that is the report of the Australian National University. In starting to speak to the report, let me refer to what I thought was an unfortunate part of an otherwise excellent speech.  Senator Button  spoke about something upon which he has been misinformed. He talked about the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provision) Bill as if the Council of the University had asserted a view which he espoused. In fact, it did not. As recently as last Friday it did not, notwithstanding the efforts of one or two people- a minority. The legislation does not have general application to the University which does not wish to enter into the politics into which the Opposition may wish to enter. I do not propose to discuss the matter further than that. The University Council was careful not to create a situation such as that which  Senator Button,  I fear, in an otherwise very good speech attempted to introduce. 
I go back to other matters about which  Senator Button  talked. He quoted from the ViceChancellor's report and talked about the problems of universities in the current financial situation. I think it would be appropriate to say that universities in Australia have accepted that we are existing in a situation of some financial stringency in relation to expenditure. There is an overwhelming and clear attitude among people that they wish inflation to be curtailed. The University has set to with a will to endeavour to retain its very high standards, while accepting what it regards as regrettable but as something over which, nevertheless, it has no control- that is, the expansion rates which might have existed previously cannot continue. I think it has managed to adjust itself to a situation of low growth or non-growth. It has managed to ensure that its academic standards are not being damaged. It will strongly fight for its continued autonomy notwithstanding the attitudes which may be expressed at any time by some sections of the bureaucracy about the autonomy of universities. 
I believe the Australian National University has sufficient reason to feel proud that in its 30-plus years of existence it has established itself as one of the great universities not only of Australia but also of the world. It has established itself in Australia and in the world as a centre of world class research. I do not think that one or two people with bureaucratic intentions will curtail the very strong feelings which exist among those who have helped to develop that world standing of the institution. I do not think they will give in easily to petty attempts at restrictions on the autonomy of an institution which has reached its standing as a result of its freedom, given to it in the original Bill and maintained by the Parliament thereafter. 
I note that  Senator Button  criticised the University's public relations. Perhaps the University could spend a whole lot more of the public funds which it has available to it to produce some sort of an even more glossy report with pictures such as those which are produced these days by companies for products, particularly if they are the sort of thing which some of the mass circulation newspapers manage to put on their front pages. I would rather see the report retain its academic standards instead of trying to compete with some of the penny dreadfuls of the media. 
I can accept  Senator Button's  criticism to the extent that perhaps there has not been enough public understanding of the reasons for the substantial expenditure in keeping that major national institution going. I am not sure what the amount will be in the current year, but it will approach or be more than $80m. That sounds a lot of money. I believe that this is one of the areas in which we are getting value for money for the taxpayers' funds. It is not just the campus, the students, the research or a particular part of the University that it is worthwhile maintaining- it is the whole collection. It is the bringing together of the various activities of the University that has made Australia a part of the world so far as academic study is concerned. 
I deprecate the attacks which have been made on the Australian National University and some other universities by journalists such as  Mr Peter  Samuel. He is a journalist whose journalistic standards I believe leave a lot to be desired. He is a man who has pursued a vendetta against universities since he left them. One asks: Why did he do so? He is a man who appears to have a chip on his shoulder in relation to the activities of those who perhaps surpassed him in his would-be academic pursuits. Perhaps I could be as unfair as he has been in most of his articles in which he has condemned people without trial and without an objective approach to the matters about which he is writing. I will simply say: Let him explain why it is that he has a chip on his shoulder about universities before he starts to write any more articles condemning universities. 
I admit that there are things that are not right about universities. There are things that are not right about the way in which some of the universitiesprobably most of the universities- have been administered from time to time. There was an awful lot that was not right about the way in which the Australian Labor Party administered this country when it was in government. There is an awful lot that is not right about the way in which we administer it when we are in government. There is an awful lot that is not right about everything that goes on throughout the world. If one looks at what is happening in respect of companies and if one looks at any section of the community one will find something wrong. But for a man to conduct a vendetta against those whom he found himself having to leave for one reason or another and to write with a vitriol that is more reminiscent of  Pravda  than it is of the Australian media - 
Perhaps  Senator Mulvihill  has drawn my attention to a more appropriate illustration. I simply deprecate the sort of attacks that have been made. I do not think they are part of the Australian scene. I hope that the next time  Mr Samuel  proposes to look at an area in which he once was a participant he will be more objective and a little less personal. 
I believe that the universities of Australia have achieved for this country a standing of which we can be proud. Again I admit that there are things that are wrong. Of course there are. I could enumerate a whole list of them. There are things I do not like. There are things many of us do not like. There are areas in which the universities, like this Parliament, endeavour to balance all the competing interests and to provide an opportunity for the development and the pursuit of excellence in our community. That as a standard and that as an objective is something that, provided it is being pursued, should not be denigrated. 
There are probably people who abuse study leave in the same way as there are probably people who abuse the opportunity for an overseas trip through this Parliament and there are probably people who abuse promotion opportunities within a university in the same way as there are probably people who abuse the promotion opportunities within the Public Service. But that is a part of life. It does not deserve the vilification of the objective, which has been a tendency of some of the sorts of attacks which have been made not only on the Australian 
National University but also on other universities. 
I am not suggesting that universities are immune from any criticism. I am not suggesting they are immune from any constructive questioning. I state here and now that I see no reason at all why the appropriate committee of this Parliament should not say to the Australian National University at any time that it wishes: 'We, as the people responsible for ensuring that that which the Parliament has created is living true to and accountable to the objectives, wish to hear from you'. As I said this afternoon, never has any institution a good reason to say: 'We will not throw it up in the air and have a look at it; we will not ask why that is done or why this is done '. In the same way as we may ask in this Parliament why things are done, so may we ask why of the Australian National University or any other institution or statutory body which the Parliament has created. This Parliament is responsible for ensuring that there is accountability. But we are not concerned with aggressive accountability. We do not operate on the basis that we require institutions to answer our queries as though they were malefactors of some sort. Rather our attitude is one of interested accountability and of saying: 'What are you doing, why are you doing it in this way and how are you going? '. 
I see no reason at all why the Australian National University should be immune from that sort of accountability. But I do not think that to criticise universities generally, particularly the Australian National University, in a way which seems to have become relatively common of late and to use them as some sort of whipping boy for what are seen as the misfortunes of education is a desirable trend. It is not one that will help to develop the objective which all of us seek, namely, the pursuit of excellence, the pursuit and development of scientific research and the pursuit and development of historical research and many other forms of research. 
I was amused recently to hear about the dreadful conditions under which the biology department of the University has to operate. I was amused only because of the way in which the difficulties of the department were expressed. The biology department has severe problems. This is the sort of thing on which the stringency of the current era has its impact. The biology area of the University certainly has its problems from a departmental functioning point of view. It was described as being in no way a paradise of biological effort. I wondered for a moment how one would illustrate the text when it came to talking about that statement. I simply mention this matter to illustrate the problem that exists within that University. It receives a great deal of money from the taxpayer but it does need more. The University accepts that it will not get more in substantial terms until the country can afford it. The University has a will to do the best it can with the funds that are available to it. I think that is a most appropriate way for a university and a university council to approach the issues that it has to approach in the current circumstances. Trimming its sails has just been part of what it has had to do in recent times. 
I want to mention one other matter before I conclude my speech in respect of the report which we are now discussing. It happens to touch upon two things that are fairly near and dear to my heart. One is the report of the Australian National University. As people may have gathered, that is fairly near and dear to me. The other subject is Tasmania. The connection may escape people until I explain it. With a true federalist diversificationist attitude, the university sought to have its report printed not necessarily at the centre. If one looks at the report one will see that it was printed by Mercury- Walch of Hobart, Tasmania. 
The Minister says that I should have declared my interest. As a matter of fact, my interest started when I found out that that was the arrangement. I did not know until after the arrangement had been made. There is a little story attached to this, and it is an interesting story. Some honourable senators may have noted that the report was late in being presented to the Parliament. Normally the report is presented considerably before the time of the year when this report was presented. The reason why this report was late is that, having engaged somebody to print the report- if one looks through the report one sees that there is no question of a lack of competence in printing- the university was held up in that because of Tasmanian shipping difficulties, which are an old problem to which many of us from Tasmania have referred from time to time, the printer could not obtain the paper to print the report. It was held up for weeks as a result of some of the industrial and other problems which create backlogs in Tasmanian shipping services. 
This serves to dissuade bodies such as the Australian National University from ever again engaging a competent and efficient printer in Tasmania to print their reports. I take the opportunity to mention that this problem is one about which Tasmanian members of this chamber talk when they discuss the importance of things such as the freight equalisation scheme and the problems that Tasmania has in being able to compete with the mainland States on anything like an equal basis. This printer won the contract; but he cannot keep a contract if he cannot get the paper to do the printing. 
It is a matter of the paper that is needed for certain reports. Not every company produces paper which is appropriate for a particular publication. Certainly, we have one of the best paper producers in the world, in APPM. It produces the most appropriate paper for all sorts of purposes. I am assured that the specifications in the contract for which the printer tendered called for a type of paper which it could not obtain from APPM in Tasmania; at least, the assumption is that the printer could not obtain it from APPM because that paper was not part of the run it was doing. 
I hope that it has not been deterred. I found this out as a result of inquiries I made as to why the report was late. That is the only reason why I found this out. I hope that I will be able to encourage the Australian National University to try a Tasmanian printer again. The freight equalisation scheme and the efforts of the Australian National Line in having an over-tonnage on the Tasmania run should ensure that the sorts of hold-ups which followed the disaster and debacle of 1974 and 1975, and which carried through into 1976 and even 1977, will be eliminated entirely. If that can happen, I believe that the Australian National University and anybody else will be able to have a great deal of confidence in engaging a Tasmanian printer to print and publish on time. 
I accept entirely what  Senator Knight  has said. Poor Tasmania! It is an island that in many ways can do things better than many other parts of Australia, but it is adversely affected from time to time by the problems which it has and which have been imposed on it; they have not been of its own making. Tasmania has the most expensive ships in the world, the most  expensive crews in the world and the most expensive wharf labourers in the world. That is not Tasmania's fault. All that is the result of Federal government policies. When there is no option, the situation becomes a little more difficult. I believe that the freight equalisation scheme, together with the attitudes currently being adopted by the Australian National Line, can overcome the sorts of problems experienced by the Australian National University when it reasonably and properly engaged Tasmanian printers to prepare its report and found itself embarrassed by a delay which was not of its making but rather was the product of some successive national government policies which have disadvantaged the State of Tasmania and its industries. I am grateful for the opportunity to speak in support of the consideration of the Australian National University report. 
I summarise by saying that I believe that all of Australia- not only this chamber, which is probably more closely aware of the activities of the Australian National University, but the whole of the country- can be proud that within a very short period, in competition with universities around the world which have developed over many centuries, we have developed a university of a standing and degree of excellence which are a compliment to those who designed the original Act, to those who have supported the concept and the autonomy of the university over the years of its existence and to those Australians who make it work- the taxpayer, the contributor, the person who, in one way or another, has ensured that we have a university which is able to hold its head high wherever the question of achievement and excellence is discussed in the world. There are some areas in which the university leads the world. There are others in which it competes. But, taken all round, I am delighted to be able to support  Senator Button  in the general sentiments which he expressed, namely, that we are proud of the Australian National University which was created by this Parliament and is paid for by the Australian taxpayer. 
I  direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport and refer to a question on 15 March last in which I asked whether the Minister could indicate or ascertain the situation in relation to the review of rates of assistance under the Tasmanian freight equalisation scheme. Is the Minister now in a position to provide the information conveyed by his colleague, the Minister for Transport? 
-We are debating a proposal which has been laid down in a statement given by the  President.  I commence by making it quite clear, as my personal view, that I totally support the absolute integrity of the proposals stated by you,  Mr President,  and the actions which you have taken. Any further comments or any motions which are carried are not in any way a comment upon the proposals but are looking further, from the short term to the longer term, at the involvement of people who are members of parliament as a further consideration of the matter. It has been interesting in the debate to listen to some of the contributions which various people have made. I well recall  Senator Mulvihill  's problem and I sympathise. While he was speaking I tried to correct something by way of interjection and I take the opportunity to do so now. 
When  Senator Mulvihill  talked about referring a matter to the Senate Privileges Committee I think he was mistaken. Perhaps he was referring to another committee which was a select committee. It had an independent  chairman  and an equal number of then Australian Labor Party Government and Opposition Liberal and Country Party senators. I do not think the honourable senator was referring to the Privileges Committee. If I am wrong perhaps the honourable senator can correct the situation by way of personal explanation. But I think what I have set out is the situation. I do not think  Senator Mulvihill  was accurate in talking about the Privileges Committee. There is universal concern to ensure the security not only of individual members of parliament and of the institution of parliament, but also of individual people who work within Parliament House. There are a large number of such people. I noticed this morning that one of the most recent passes issued was numbered something over 5,000. That is a fair indication of the number of passes which, at this early stage, have been issued to people who enter Parliament House. 
I also point out that the last figures which I have- they may be for the year before last; I think perhaps they are- show that over three quarters of a million Australians visited their Parliament House. I emphasise the words 'their Parliament House'. Parliaments exist only as long as people feel that it is their parliament and that they are involved. One of the concerns I have and which I feel very strongly is that while we are expressing our concern for security we should not in any way be detracting from the people's opportunity to enjoy, to participate in and to take whatever attitude they will about, but to feel involved in the operation of Parliament House. It is only through the people that parliament has any reason for its existence. Therefore I feel parliament is different from a commercial enterprise which has a different right to protect its security. Were I running a security risk industry such as a petro-chemical company where, if children were allowed in with boxes of matches, I could see that my investment might go up in flames, I would be quite happy to go along with strict security. But where we have a parliament which perhaps could be described as a place where there is government of the people, by the people through their delegates, the people should be able to feel involved and see what is happening within that parliament house. Equally, there is the aspect that the members who are the delegates of the people should have the absolute right of entry and exit from that parliament house. 
One of the misfortunes of the world has been the growth of international terrorism. Some people in some parts of the world- in a fairly significant number of parts of the world- have taken it into their minds to abuse the freedom which exists in a number of countries and to impose terror and restrictions which will lead to the achievement of their objectives. It is that latter part about which I wish to make my point. Terrorist activity is not only the immediate threat. Unless a particular and immediate demand is acceded to, terrorists will do something or, alternatively, they do something and then make a threat and claim credit so that they can make a further threat to achieve their demands. That is one aspect. The other aspect which is perhaps even more important in relation to what has been going on in the world is that a lot of people who are behaving in this type of way are doing so with a view to rattling the free societies of the world. They are doing that with a view to destroying freedom and imposing systems of authoritarianism so that they can take over the control of those authoritarian systems. I regard this as the most important point when we are considering imposing systems to secure the parliament and the people who work here. If we over-react we will do what the British Government did in the 18th century in relation to the American colonies: We will cause people to rebel. We will do what has been done by every authoritarian regime over the centuries. We will create the opportunity for those who would like to take over the authoritarian system to do so. We will create within those upon whom the system is imposed a resentment which will lead to rebellion. 
I am not suggesting that the measures which have been taken are likely to create that result. Any time we impose restrictions in the name of security, let us be quite sure that there is adequate justification not only in fact but also known to the people upon whom they are imposed. My complaint tonight is that I do not know why these security measures should be imposed. If it is because of one lunatic bomb outside the Hilton Hotel, then I do not think that is justification. If it is something more than the bomb scares which have taken place over many years on aircraft on which I have been flying or at Parliament House which I have been attending for many years, then I would like to know. Not only would I like to know as a representative of the people but also the people are entitled to know the justification. I am not suggesting that there may not be justification. I know how strongly I resented the actions which were taken by a former Attorney-General,  Senator Murphy,  whom I regard as a disgrace to the Parliament. I realise that my friends on the Opposition side of the chamber will not agree with me. I regard the actions which were taken by the former Attorney-General  Senator Murphy,  as a disgrace to the history of Australia. I do not want to see any more actions such as that taken in this country. I feel we must be very conscious of the fact that that sort of action can create division. It can create resentment and it can create eventually rebellion. 
I simply indicate that authoritarianism has its costs. Security is important but so, too, is freedom. Freedom must always involve risks. It is a matter of achieving a balance. If we are to preserve a free society, the Parliament, above all else, must give a lead in preserving that free society. Some of the things that are happening in this country today appal me. Some of the things that are happening from the point of view of the imposition of an authoritarian attitude by governments make me feel that our freedom and the preservation of our democracy may be at risk. 
We have enjoyed a rare opportunity in the world of today. I believe that Australia is one of the countries that can give a lead to the world of today. We happen to be far enough away from the problems of Europe, the Middle East and a number of other areas of the world to be able to say that we do not have to follow their lead. We do not have to impose the security which is of necessity imposed in a place that has suffered what the Munich Olympic Games suffered. Of course a country would be security conscious if it had been through that. Of course one would expect the Knesset to have security precautions far beyond those which prevail in other countries of the world. But do we have to have them in Australia? Do we have to impose them in our free society where we are able to enjoy some of the freedoms which are not enjoyed but longed for in other parts of the world? 
If there is any real sign of the spread of international terrorism to Australia, then I believe that the people of Australia are entitled to know from their Parliament what those signs are. I believe they are entitled to know whether there is a real reason for expecting a spread to this country of international terrorism. If there is no basis upon which we can say that international terrorism has spread to this country, we face no greater risk than did the United States of America when John Wilkes Booth perpetrated his crime or other famous actions were carried out by people who could only be regarded as individual aberrations in the life of a society. There is no way in which we can protect absolutely every person in a community at all times. We all know that murder, muggings, holdups, rapes and other types of attacks on personal freedom and liberty and the right to the preservation of personal integrity, take place; but what we try to do as a society is create a balance. A police state has never achieved the preservation of individuals any more than has a system in which there is a balance. 
In all, I regret that a majority see the need for these steps to be taken, but I bow to the attitude adopted by the majority. I simply take the opportunity to express my concern in principle that these steps are necessary in a free society which is today a treasure to be preserved rather than to be plundered. A free society is something which in every possible way we should attempt to uphold and preserve with its full freedoms. In no way am I suggesting that one should be absurd about this and expose people to undue risk; but if we have reached the stage in Australia where these measures must be taken, I think the people of whose Parliament we are simply the trustees for the moment are entitled to know what is happening to our society so that they, too, can participate in a means of overcoming the changes which have come about in our society, and can attempt to avoid entrenching themselves in that society. It is a society which has been peculiarly free of violence or war on its soil throughout its history other than perhaps- I say this in deference to my colleague  Senator Bonner  and everything he stands for- during its period of early settlement. Our society has developed remarkably free of civil war and war on its territory. I think we have the opportunity to lead the world back to a system of freedom, sanity and balance. I do not like to see anything happening or any steps taken which simply have us following the worst of what is happening elsewhere. 

 Mr President, I reiterate what I said at the commencement of my speech, that is, that I accept entirely that it was necessary that interim measures be taken by you. I accept entirely the fact that the Presiding Officers were faced with an immediate situation in which they needed to introduce a system which would satisfy some of the stronger demands from some of the members of this Parliament. I acknowledge that those demands vary from one extreme to the other, as one might expect about most of the things that take place in a parliament. That is what a parliament is all about. It is representative of the crosssection of attitudes of the community. I take the opportunity to put in my plea. Let us not impose forever measures which simply write off one further aspect of a free society and impose one further aspect of a controlled or authoritarian society when perhaps we should be trying to move in the opposite direction. I support  Senator Chaney  's amendment. It will create an opportunity for further consideration and debate amongst that cross-section about which I have been talking- the cross-section of the Parliament and the cross-section of the community which is reflected in the Parliament. I think it can do nothing but good and do nothing but assist you  Mr President,  in your further consideration of the measures to be taken. I support the measures which you have taken and I support the amendment moved by  Senator Chaney. 
I am delighted to have the opportunity to speak to this Bill. So far as I am concerned, it is an extremely important Bill and it is a great day that it comes before this chamber for discussion and consideration. In due course I shall be replying to the comment to which  Senator Wriedt  invited me to reply. My comments will not be based on parochialism but on fact. 
I am glad to hear that I have  Senator O  'Byrne's support. I think it would help if, in referring to this Bill to provide for a permanent Australian Maritime College, I were to put on record some of the history of the matter. It seems that there is some confusion. Way back in 1972 the then Minister for Transport, who is now again the Minister for Transport,  Mr Peter  Nixon, gave consideration, arising out of concern which was being expressed in the maritime industry, to the necessity for the creation of some upgraded form of training for people involved in the maritime industry. In fact he spoke of this when he was opening a conference towards the end of 1972. After the present Government parties lost office at the end of 1972 the matter proceeded through the continuation of the Summers inquiry, to which reference has been made by  Senator Wriedt.  It also continued within the Liberal and National Country parties. In April 1974 they published a policy document entitled 'The Way Ahead', containing the total policies of the Liberal and National Country parties. One of the policies to which reference was made at that time was that the Liberal and Country parties in government would confer with shipowners and unions on improvement of careers at sea and the need for a merchant maritime college open to all ranks and providing technical education and qualification courses. So that was a firm policy commitment made in April 1974. 
Shortly after that, the Summers report was published. It recommended the creation of a college, which was already part of Liberal and Country Party policy. On 18 March 1975 it was my pleasure and privilege to be able to announce on behalf of the then joint Opposition partiestrie Liberal and National Country parties- and on behalf of the then Leader of those parties,  Mr Snedden,  now  Sir Billy  Snedden, that it was the firm policy of the Liberal and Country parties that in government they would site the maritime college in Tasmania adjacent to the northern division college of advanced education; in other words, at Launceston. That is the site which is now envisaged and which is going ahead. That was an announcement that I made on 18 March 1975. 
The resignation of  Mr Lance  Barnard, the honourable member for Bass, had an effect on this matter which had been the subject of some discussion in Tasmania but which had not been the subject of a policy announcement by the then Federal Labor Government, and led to the Bass by-election in June. At that time, the then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  announced that his Labor Government would site the college at Launceston adjacent to the college of advanced education, as had already been envisaged by the Liberal and National Country parties. That is the brief history of the events. From June 1975 it has been bipartisan policy- the policy of both the Opposition and the Government notwithstanding any changes that have taken place in the meantime- that the Australian Maritime College be sited at Launceston. 
Of course, there was some competition for the site and some misguided people put forward claims such as those put forward by  Senator Wriedt.  Whilst I acknowledge that Hobart is an excellent city, has a broad harbour and is near to the sea- this was part of the conditions required by  Mr Summers  in his report- the sorts of advantages that Launceston has are not available anywhere else in Australia. Launceston had particularly strong claims for the siting of the Australian Maritime College, including the fact that it had a College of Advanced Education with room to expand next to it. There was ample room on an excellent site for the Maritime College to be built adjacent to the existing and rapidly expanding College of Advanced Education. That was one of the other matters that  Senator Wriedt  forgot to mention. 
One of the other important points made by  Mr Summers  was that any Australian maritime college would need to be built adjacent to and in conjunction with a college of advanced education. At no time has it been envisaged that many of the courses would not be run using joint facilities and that students would not attend jointly the facilities of a college of advanced education. Engineering is one example I cite. Another qualification was that the College should be located near adequately sheltered water with ready access to the sea. As someone who has sailed frequently both on the Derwent River and on the Tamar River, I am happy to say that the sheltered water required is far more readily available at Bell Bay than at any other proposed site. Those who might think otherwise obviously have never had a look at the Bell BayBeauty Point area. The College needs to be in a reasonably central position and that is the position in respect to Launceston. 
Another point to which I make reference is that the site has some historical significance. It is the birth place of Australian coastal shipping. It was from the Tamar that the genesis of Australia's coastal shipping came. As those honourable senators who have interested themselves in the history of Australia will know, the early ships sailing around the Australian coast were basically ships on their way to or from the United Kingdom. Ships called at Hobart, which was the second settlement of Australia, the first being at Sydney. Before the discovery of Bass Strait, ships not infrequently called at Hobart on their way to Sydney. Often ships came direct to Hobart and returned to England. Coastal shipping as such arose many years after the discovery of Bass Strait when the settlement of Victoria commenced. Trade started to develop very rapidly with ships plying back and forwards from Launceston, the centre from which the foundation of Victoria took place, to all the other areas of Victoria including the Western districts of Portland and Port Fairy. It was from Launceston that whaling and sealing first commenced operations. It was easy and obvious that the sudden expansion of Victoria, the discovery of Australia Felix by  Major Mitchell  and the realisation of the wonderful grazing available that a rapid expansion in the settlement of Western Victoria took place. It was from the transporting of people, goods and particularly sheep that Tasmania experienced one of its first booms and one of its first busts. This took place as a result of the expansion of the settlement of Victoria. Sudden inflation took place in the price of sheep being purchased in Tasmania for transport to the huge grazing grounds in Western Victoria. The price of sheep rose to as high as 8 sterling a head which, as honourable senators can imagine, was a remarkably high price at that time. All the shipping eminated from the port of Launceston, out of the Tamar - 
I know that  Senator Harradine,  being a parochial Hobartian cannot bear the thought of any development taking place anywhere except around his own nose. But I will ignore any further comments from  Senator Harradine  because I wish to put on record some of the aspects of the matter which those honourable senators who are interested may wish to know. The building of ships for the Australian coastal shipping service commenced at the port of Launceston. In Hobart developed the building very largely of ships for the purposes of whaling, sealing and roving the seas. In the port of Launceston and the area around it the building of ships suitable for and used for the interstate trade basically across Bass Strait commenced. The trade developed further to include Adelaide and Sydney as the years went by. It is an area with an extremely strong maritime history. I will answer  Senator Harradine  's rather inane interjection. Of course, this is not the reason to place the College at Launceston. But it has some relevance when it is an area with a long and a strong maritime history. 
I pass on to answer the question: Why have a Maritime College? For quite some years training in the maritime industry was based on a system of in-service training, notwithstanding the changes which have taken place in almost every other industry in the world. The maritime industry, along with some of the trades which still continue apprenticeship virtually only on an inservice basis had not organised itself to the stage of a formalised academic training institution to cover the whole of the necessary training for people engaged in that industry. One of the matters that has created an immense force for change has been the technology explosion as it has affected the maritime industry. This has brought forth the need and demand for an upgraded form of training in this industry. 
A number of naval colleges have been established throughout the world but almost no real merchant service colleges covering the whole field of training have been established other than the one in the United States of America which is at Kings Point on Long Island. Training in Australia relied on some technical colleges and training for radio engineers was conducted by the AWA training college in Sydney. There was a clear need for upgrading and for co-ordination of the training and for the provision of a new system of certification of competency. It is interesting to note that the International Labour Organisation conference in 1970 considered the matter of vocational training for seafarers and recommended the universal upgrading of the training programs available to fit people to go to sea. Paragraph 1 6 of that report states: 
The various training programs should be realistically based on the work to be performed on board ship. They should be periodically reviewed and kept up to date in order to keep abreast of technical developments. 
The report went on to list a significant number of aspects of training all of which I note it is proposed to include in our Maritime College. We will be following a trend which has developed in other parts of the world and which has been referred to at the conference of the International Labour Organisation. What we are doing is not out of sequence with what the rest of the world has indicated it believes should happen. We are doing it in a way which perhaps will mean that we have a national Maritime College before any nation other than the United States of America. In Southampton in the United Kingdom there is a navigation school only, which is now moving towards a development with other sections of training. I understand that it is likely that Southampton will be moving towards a totally rounded maritime industry training system in the near future. In Bremen in Germany, federal funding is being made available to encourage the development of a major training college for the whole of the German maritime industry. At present there exists in a number of parts of Germany various smaller training colleges which do not give any sort of complete training but rather concentrate on certain aspects of training. 
We are not moving in any way against the world trend but will, by pursuing this objective, I believe, achieve the generally accepted goal ahead of almost every other country. The proposal has the full support of the major parts of the industry. In particular, the Australian National Line and the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, which, between them, represent over 60 per cent of all Austraiian shipping, have indicated that they will use the college for all the training and retraining of their employees. The proposal has the very strong and enthusiastic support of the Port of Launceston Authority and, in particular, of its Port Manager, Chief Engineer  Mr Jack 
Edwards, who has been a member of the Interim Council and who is also a member of the Council of the College of Advanced Education. I understand from everybody involved that his contribution to the planning of the council has certainly been a major asset to that council in the development of the plans and the facilities for the college. 
Both shipping and fishing are no longer the free wheeling, relatively independent operations that they were years ago. There have been dramatic increases in size, in power, in technology, in the carriage of dangerous cargoes, in the introduction of automation and in the overall complexity of operations at sea, both in the merchant services and in the fishing area. I suppose a good example would be if I were to say that a lookout a few years ago needed good eyesight; now he must be able to operate and to read radar. Perhaps it is demonstrated also by the fact that a few years ago he needed to know how to use a sextant. Now he has to know how to use Decca, Loran or Omega. I suppose one of the best recent examples of the dangers and the horrors of sea transport and what it can do is what happened to the  Amoco Cadiz,  which is the well known disaster which took place in the last few weeks off the coast of Normandy. It is a frightening reminder of what can happen to ships carrying more than 200,000 tons of oil which get into strife. All that happened to  Amoco Cadiz  was that its steering failed. Its steering having failed, apparently the system of salvage was not such that agreement could be reached between the master of the tug and the master of  Amoco Cadiz  in time to save that ship from running aground, breaking its back and spilling more than 200,000 tons of oil along hundreds of kilometres of the Normandy coastline, ruining that coastline for all the people who and all the creatures which use it. 
Navigation, the operation of ships and" the question of safety in relation to ships are all areas of activity which today need specialist highly trained people. I should like to give one further example of the sort of development which is taking place. If one contemplates the use of jetfoils which already exist in pans of the world and which may well spread to Australia, one can see the sorts of things that are happening. The people who operate these ships are virtually pilots. They are virtually flying ships which can travel over long distances at more than 40 knots. The average speed of jetfoils, I understand, is about 43 or 44 knots. The jetfoils are virtually flying and are able to carry large quantities of people or goods over long distances at very high speeds. They require tremendous knowledge and skill, similar to the sort of knowledge and skill which is involved in flying an aircraft and the sort of knowledge of all the systems which technology has provided to enable such things to exist. To a country such as Australia, which can be regarded either as a big island or as being made up of two main islands with one a bit bigger than the other, perhaps considerably bigger- shipping is its commercial lifeline. 
The fishing industry is on the spring board of a massive takeoff. We are looking forward to big ships coming into the Australian fishing industry which, till now, has been relatively a  Cinderella  industry. With the natural development which has taken place, plus the concentration provided by the extension of the 200-mile economic marine zone, we are looking forward to a very rapidly expanding industry which will grow from what it has been, substantially a cottage industry, into a very large scale big-ships, sophisticated equipment industry, where all of those involved will need a high degree of training and qualification to enable them to operate the type of equipment which will be involved. Not a moment too soon are we taking this step to put Australia to the forefront in maritime training. We should look also to the future of such industries as krill fishing. Australia fortunately is located very close to one of the major areas which are available for the fishing of krill. If one considers the figures which were given quite recently by one of the people associated with the British Antarctic research team, it appears that although the present take from the sea- this relates to all types of fish and other marine life- is about 70 million tons it has been estimated that over 1 50 million tons of krill can be taken from the Antarctic waters without endangering the future of that fishery. When one thinks of propositions such as towing icebergs- it is a totally new water source which is said to be perfectly capable of being put into effect for the drier regions not only of Australia but also of other parts of the worldand thinks of what is involved in the expansion of fisheries protection and management, one can see that there will be an increased demand for people highly qualified in the maritime industry. 
In late 1975 the Labor Government introduced a Bill for the establishment of an Interim Council for the Maritime College. That lapsed without being passed when the double dissolution took place in November 1975. The new Government restored the matter and, as a matter of fact, it was as early as 23 January 1 976 that the new Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  announced that the Government had agreed to the establishment of the Maritime College at Launceston. Since it was formally announced policy of the Liberal-National Country parties before they went into formalising in government- it was one of the promises on which they went into government- this was simply the formality of their formalising in Government what was firm policy.  Senator Carrick  acted promptly to get that through Cabinet and get it under way. In fact, I think it would be fair to say that  Senator Carrick  has been assiduous in pursuing this matter and in ensuring that it received maximum priority at all times. He has pushed it forward as fast as it could go. 
From 1976 we pass into the planning stage with the appointment of an Interim Council to plan the development of the College. Here I think it is appropriate to make some remarks about proper planning. It is not hard to see around Australia some examples of what can happen when we rush ahead with inadequate planning, when we rush ahead with a sense of urgency which overwhelms the sense of the importance of adequate consideration and adequate planning. Planning of the sites, planning of the facilities, planning of the courses, planning of the co-operation with the College of Advanced Education, planning of the co-ordination and the introduction of co-ordination systems with the industry were all important matters which were dealt with during this planning period, as was the ascertaining of the future needs of the industry so that they could be catered for. All this takes time, but it is time well spent. This Bill, in broad terms, creates an autonomous academic training institution for the maritime industry. It will be under the control of a council which, I understand, is expected to be appointed within about two months of the passage of this Bill. The site is declared to be at Launceston. The principal already has been appointed as is provided for in the Bill. Provision is also made in the Bill for the appointment of staff. The College is designed basically along the lines of colleges of advanced education which have been created in other parts of Australia as well as the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education. For instance, it is very similar to the Canberra College of Advanced Education in its autonomous structure. 
It is important to refer to the site, even for those who know something about it. Tonight one or two honourable senators have made it perfectly obvious that they do not know anything about it. For others who are interested it is important to record something about the site. Launceston is the centre of Northern Tasmania. It is on the Tamar River which flows into Bass 
Strait. It is situated in what I think most people would agree is Australia 's most beautiful State. Launceston is a city which is developing into one of the education centres of a decentralised Australia. It is a pleasant city in which to live. It is warmer and more temperate than Canberra, virtually safe from pollution and it enjoys more sunshine hours than many of the cities of Australia. This is one of the things which many people do not realise. On the average over the year it enjoys an hour a day more sunshine than Melbourne and Hobart. I think this is one of the important things to be borne in mind by those who will be on the staff and by those who will be students attending the College. Despite the comments of some of those people who have endeavoured to have the College sited elsewhere, these facts are important and should be known. 
Launceston is the centre for a population of approximately 120,000 people. It is large enough to have full city amenities such as hospitals, theatres, professional services, tertiary education for children and all the rest. Any people who may be attracted by the thought of joining the staff of the Australian Maritime College need have no fear that they are going to a cultural or social desert. After all,  Time  magazine in a published survey rated Tasmania as one of the 10 best places in the world in which to live. I sometimes wonder where that magazine found the other nine places. I mention these matters because although they may be well known to honourable senators they will be of interest to people in other parts of the world who may take the opportunity to read the  Hansard  report of this debate in order to learn more about what will be one of the world 's foremost maritime colleges. People from other countries may consider applying for an appointment to the staff or they may wish to study at the College. In passing I mention that I believe it is very likely that people from a number of other countries will come to this College for the various types of courses which will be provided there. 
The site is next door to and immediately to the north of the headquarters of the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education. The College is sited on the banks of the River Tamar. The site is basically level but has an outlook to river, hills and mountains. It is adjacent to a new matriculation college, a high school, as well as to Tasmania's leading independent school, which has the longest continuous history in Australia- since 1846- the Launceston Grammar School. In the centre of the site is a beautiful old stately home, the historic Newnham Hall. The land was owned by the State Government and is being transferred to the Commonwealth for the purposes of the College. There will be an administration centre, class rooms, accommodation and the like on that site at Newnham. Downstream from Launceston on the western side of a large basin in the River Tamar is Beauty Point which I believe is appropriately named. This area is Tasmania's major port, with everything from 50,000 ton woodchip ships to overseas container ships, coastal ships of the Australian National Line and others, bulk carriers of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, Comalco Ltd and others, tankers and the lot. The basin is in sheltered water and is about three miles wide. The seamanship and fisheries training section of the College will be located at Beauty Point. There will be a jetty, store, workshops, practical training centre with accommodation and lecture rooms sited further up from the waterfront. We hope to have a training ship and a fisheries vessel which will be used for fisheries training. 
I mention something which I think will be of interest to all honourable senators. As is well known, the pilot ship  Wyuna  which has been used in Port Phillip Bay for some years, which contains accommodation for over 40 people and which is peculiarly well suited as a training ship for a maritime college, is to come on the market later this year. It has been decided that the pilot system to be used for ships going into and out of Port Phillip Bay will be changed and that the Wyuna is now surplus to needs, although it is still a good and relatively unused ship. I think the only thing which will govern the availability of the ship to the Australian Maritime College is the provision of the necessary funds, whatever they might be, to the permanent council. It will have to reach an agreement for the purchase of a ship which has virtually no use other than as a pilot station vessel or alternatively as a maritime college training vessel. One hopes that this vessel will be made available to the Australian Maritime College on some sort of reasonable basis. 
The Tamar River is the centre for Flinders Island shipping. It also has a dry dock which attracts vessels from various parts of southern Australia for dry dock work. It has a fairly continuous operation and is regarded as a very efficient dry dock. Shipbuilding and boatbuilding is also undertaken on the River Tamar. One of the things which some people would perhaps like to boast about but cannot is that this area constructs without subsidy and in world competition small ships at competitive prices. This is as opposed to the shipbuilding industry in the rest of Australia which is going out of operation and which has been enjoying a huge subsidy. But it still cannot compete with the rest of the world. When we look at the way in which the smaller tug and boatbuilding establishments on the River Tamar have been operating we see what efficiency can do. We have also built some of the best yachts in Australia which have competed very successfully. 
Yes, they have. The facilities at Beauty Point should be completed before the end of next year, ready to commence courses in 1980. The Interim Council has decided to use as the store, workshop and practical training area the existing cool stores formerly owned by Jones and Co., which are situated adjacent to the jetty. The Council will construct a slipway adjacent to the cool stores. By using the Jones and Co. building we will save costs and more money will be readily available for the rapid development of the College. This building is being used to expedite that development, even though- I emphasise this- I think everyone will agree that in the relatively near future it will be necessary to build a permanent building to replace the old Jones and Co. building. 
I turn now to the courses to be provided at the College. They may be divided into two principal types, that is training courses and re-training courses. Those courses are being designed at the moment. I think the whole of Australia is particularly fortunate to have been able to secure the services of Captain Waters as principal of the College. His appointment was made last October and he has been very fully and busily engaged. He is a highly qualified professional with substantial experience in the maritime industry, both at sea and in training colleges. 
The courses will cover a wide range of activities and although the course structures have still to be developed in their final detail, it is considered that they will fall into two main categories: Basic full-time courses or programs for deck engineer and radio officer entrants to the shipping industry and for trainees for the larger and more sophisticated shipping vessels; and 'open' programs of short special courses of an updating or refresher nature for serving marine officers in the shipping and fishing industries, the marine and port authorities and associated industries. The Interim Council anticipates that the basic courses for officer entrants will range from three-year degree and diploma courses to two-year associate diploma and certificate of technology courses. Generally the programs will be of the 'sandwich' type with periods of service in the industry being integrated with full-time course work at the College. Successful completion of the program, including statutory sea service requirements where applicable, will qualify the trainee for a watchkeeping certificate in addition to an educational qualification and will carry exemption from the theoretical examinations for the higher level certificates of competency. I might just say in passing also that I understand the Navigation Act is in the course of being amended in relation to certificates of competency which are provided for under that Act so that the provisions will complement the Maritime College proposals. 
The degree courses at the College will provide basic training for aspirants to senior positions in the industry. They will provide an alternative to the 'extra' certificates for which the number of candidates has declined drastically since the introduction of degree courses in the United Kingdom. The basic programs will be designed to meet the needs of deck, engineer and radio officers in the shipping industry and the needs of fishing personnel. The courses will therefore be vocationally oriented at each level and can be expected to: Cover the academic requirements for certificates of competency; lead to a recognised education qualification; include commercial and managerial training in subjects not covered by certificates of competency; and provide practical experience in use of modern equipment and instrumentation. 
As well as those basic courses the Interim Council has indicated that it expects that the College will offer 'open' programs of short specialist courses in such areas as hydrographic surveying, tanker safety- in fact it has already started a tanker safety course which is going on at the moment- survival, ship handling, pollution control, fire fighting, management, fishing technology and instrumentation. The College will offer a broad range of courses in other areas in which special knowledge and training are necessary. It is desirable that these courses be designed for experienced officers. The courses will range from a few days in length to two or three months. They will involve intensive training of a highly vocational nature, and most will involve a residential requirement. 
The Interim Council has indicated also that the College will develop a number of bridging courses for personnel wishing to upgrade their existing qualifications, including bridging courses for seamen wishing to become officers. In the longer term it is considered likely that postgraduate level courses will be offered together with a number of specialist courses in areas such as shipping management and port administration. In order to provide the education and training envisaged the Interim Council considers that the College will need well equipped laboratories, instruments, simulators- including shiphandling, engine-room and cargo-handling simulatorsand training vessels, lifesaving equipment and the like. If we are fortunate enought to secure the ship  Wyuna  for the College then a lot of those things will be able to be provided readily. 
Fire fighting is also included among the training courses. The tanker safety courses which are currently being undertaken include fire fighting as part of training. 
Do you mean the fire brigades? 
I do not know that that has been contemplated but from the attitude I have heard expressed from the members of the Interim Council, if this College through its specialisation in relation to maritime safety and particularly in relation to fire fighting training is able to provide a service in other areas for the community then I have not the slightest doubt that it would be keen to do so. I think the suggestion from  Senator Harradine  is one which may well be taken up by the Council and explored further. 
Some people have been curious to know what will happen to existing courses. I understand that radio masters and mates courses for which certificates of competency can be obtained at technical colleges in Sydney, Melbourne and Newcastle will continue so long as there is a need. I understand that there are lower level training courses for which it is expected there will continue to be a need indefinitely, but it is expected that those high level competency courses will phase out the courses at those technical colleges to which I have referred because over a period of time it is expected that most of the people involved will do their training at the Maritime College. I further understand that radio training, which has been undertaken at the AWA training school in Sydney, will be taken over by the College. I understand that AWA is only too happy about the idea of ceasing to provide that training for maritime industry officers and it will not be at all unhappy about handing it over to the Maritime College at Launceston as soon as possible. As I mentioned, it is anticipated that some of the lower level competency requirements under the 
Navigation Act will still be provided by the local technical colleges. 
In regard to fees, scholarships, travelling expenses and the like, I understand that most of the students at the College will be sponsored by the shipping companies and will be paid by the companies during their period of study at the College. In respect of those who may not be sponsored by shipping companies, it appears that they would no doubt come within the provisions of the Tertiary Education Allowance Scheme and they would be entitled, if they passed the means test, to what is known as the TEAS allowance. The refresher courses are anticipated to be mostly of a short duration and those who participate in them will be on paid leave during the courses. As I have mentioned already, tanker safety courses- 24 students in each- have already started. The Interim Council has brought a lecturer from Southhampton in the United Kingdom to conduct those courses and for the sake of convenience they are being conducted in Melbourne and in Sydney. They will be conducted there until the Launceston site is developed and after that time they will be carried on on the Tamar. 
Student numbers are estimated to reach about 500 full-time students by the time the College reaches its full complement by 1984. The College- both the seamanship section at Beauty Point and the Newnham section will commence at the beginning of 1980 and will have to build up to its full complement as students complete the first year and go through the various years of the courses. It is anticipated that by 1 984 there will be about 500 full-time students. There will also be an annual throughput of about 2,000 undergoing short training courses phased in throughout the year. That should provide a substantial number. 
Some reference was made by  Senator Wriedt  to the fact that this will be a relatively small College, but in comparison with the Leith College in the United Kingdom it will have more students than that College, which is one of the better colleges in the United Kingdom and one which has been moving towards this total training concept. There have been developments in a number of the other colleges in the United Kingdom to move, as I indicated earlier, further towards that total training concept. 
One of the points in my reading in relation to training maritime industry personnel that I found quite interesting was that apparently in the United Kingdom one of the first female graduates is acting as a third officer on a ship carrying ore. One could anticipate that there may even be some competition between that English girl and the first female to go through the Australian Maritime College to become the world's first female sea captain. I hope that day will come and I hope that they will be better than some of the traditional women drivers of motor cars, if those women drivers are as bad as they are sometimes alleged to be. 
I have referred to a number of aspects of the Maritime College. I believe that other speakers wish to refer to further aspects of the development of the College. In summary, I would like to say that the development of this major institution of world standard- one which will be of a standard which can be regarded as the latest development in this type of training in the world; one which will I think attract world-wide interest -is something of which the whole of Australia will be able to be proud. It is something of which the whole of Tasmania will be able to be proud. When taken in conjunction with the Antarctic base headquarters which is being located at Hobart- which also involved a bipartisan approach put forward first of all by the Labor Party when in government and immediately and totally supported by the Liberal and Country Parties when in opposition and followed through to the stage now when it should not be long before the construction really gets under way- we will see in Tasmania a major development taking place as a maritime centre, a scientific centre and an educational centre. Tasmania has a long maritime history, an extensive seaboard and a very large area of fishing and otherwise exploitable waters. It is near to the rather exciting developments which can take place in the Antarctic, being Australia 's nearest habitable land to the Antarctic areas. 
I do not think many people enjoy living in large cities, confused by the hustle and bustle of commercial activity when they are trying to undertake study or scientific and other training or development programs. I believe that Tasmania is peculiarly well suited for the Antarctic base headquarters which, as we know, will be located in Hoban. It is peculiarly well suited for a maritime college, which as we know, will be located in Launceston. 
As  Senator Young  has just interjected, both of which can liaise; both of which can in many ways be complementary to each other. I think that was another important point that was taken into account when the original decision was made by the Liberal and 
Country Parties to locate the Australian Maritime College at Launceston in Tasmania. 
The College will also provide a major new industry for the northern Tasmanian area and for Tasmania. It will employ over 200 staff directly. As I have said, it will have more than 500 full-time students and an average of perhaps 100 part-time students, and it will increase the staff at the College of Advanced Education as a result of the increased activities at that College. Altogether it is a major new industry for the area and one which I am sure people living in that area are excited to welcome and excited by the prospect of assisting to ensure that it gets under way with a minimum of difficulty and a maximum of efficiency. I understand from those people associated witht the Interim Council that they have been delighted with the co-operation that they have received so far from everyone in the community who is in any way involved in this project. I only wish it well and compliment, as I did earlier, the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  for the assiduous manner in which he has pursued this matter to ensure that it reaches finality by the time it was originally intended to open for the full intake of students; that is, at the commencement of the 1 980 academic year. 
-Perhaps I have a misunderstanding, but I think it would be of interest to clear up this matter. I ask: Is it a fact that currently amendments in relation to the Navigation Act and regulations are being drawn up to enable them to accord more nearly to the situation which will exist upon the creation of the institution by the Bill we are considering. 

 Senator CARRICK (New South WalesMinister for Education)- The answer is yes, they are. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 10 agreed to. 
Clause 11 (Constitution of Council). 
-Clause 9 provides: 
The College may, in pursuance of arrangements between the College and the Minister for Transport, conduct on behalf of the Commonwealth- 
short courses of maritime training; and 
examinations and assessments for marine competency in accordance with the Navigation Act 1912. 
I ask the Minister: What is proposed in relation to the current provisions in the Navigation Act in relation to the existence of the totally new institution proposed by this Bill and supported by the whole of the chamber? For the information of honourable senators, what is the position in relation to any necessary amendments to the Navigation Act 1912? 
In a spirit of ecumenical approach to this matter, if I may put it that way - 
I wait for the interjections to conclude. They have all been sotto voce. None of them contributed markedly to the debate. I therefore continue my remarks without paying any particular attention to any of them. I wish to indicate that in my speech yesterday I omitted reference to a fact of which I am aware, that is, that the Labor Party- possibly a little belatedly but eventually, and well before the Bass byelection come to a conclusion. I wish to confirm what  Senator Grimes  said. I thought there had been an unwarranted besmirchment of the whole of this matter by an honourable senator who suggested that the siting of the college was the product solely of the Bass by-election. I did not suggest that.  Senator Grimes  asserted, and I confirm, to the best of my knowledge, that that was not so. Launceston was selected because it was the best site. 
I accept  Senator Harradine  's explanation of what he said last night, and I am delighted to have heard it. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 7 (Functions of College). 
-In the light of the rather incredible speech just made by  Senator Harradine,  I simply refer to the editorial in the  Examiner  of Friday, 9 May 1975, before the Bass by-election had been announced. In its editorial the  Examiner  talked about the siting of a maritime college in northern Tasmania. The editorial talked about the fact that it was the logical course to take and that it appeared that all parties supported that site. I deprecate the attempt by  Senator Harradine  to introduce an element into this debate which has been the only discord- an attempt to introduce a besmirch - ment of the whole of the work which has been done by a lot of people to try to find the best site and to develop the best site for an Australian maritime college. It is not something which was born out of the incidence of the Bass by-election, however much  Senator Harradine  may regard it that way. I can say only that if he regards it that way that is perhaps some indication to the rest of the chamber of his attitude towards politics. 
I raise the following point only to ensure clarity. Clause 12 provides that: 
Of the two staff members - 
That is, members of the Council- one shall be elected by the whole of the teaching staff of the College and the other shall be elected by the senior teaching staff of the College. 
There is no definition of 'senior teaching staff' of the College. However clause 24 provides that: 
The Council may make Statutes, not inconsistent with this Act with respect to any of the following matters: 
The persons who are to be respectively regarded as members of the teaching staff, and as members of the senior teaching staff, of the College for the purposes of act. 
It would seem therefore that the position is that clause 12 is governed by whatever statute is enacted by the Council pursuant to its powers under clause 24. I seek from the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  confirmation that that is so, firstly, because some concern has been expressed that the senior teaching staff might get two bites of the cherry and, secondly, to make sure that everybody knows who it is who gets two bites of the cherry. 
-Clause 18 reads: 
A member who has a direct or indirect pecuniary interest in a matter being considered or about to be considered by the Council, otherwise than as a member of, and in common with the other member of, an incorporated company which consists of more than 25 persons and of which he is not a director, shall, as soon as possible after the relevant facts have come to his knowledge, disclose the nature of his interest at a meeting of the Council. 
A disclosure under sub-section ( 1 ) should be recorded in the minutes of the meeting of the Council and the member shall not be present during any deliberation of the Council with respect to that matter. 
I think this provision is appearing for the first time in proposed legislation coming before this chamber. It is a matter of some concern to me. It has been suggested that some other Acts be amended to provide in similar terms. I have no concern at all about the disclosure of pecuniary interests. I fully support that idea that there should be disclosure on any such bodies as councils of academic institutions. It seems to me to be patently absurd if we have a situation in which a member of the academic staff of an academic institution who is an elected member of the council is precluded by a provision such as this from being present and participating in any discussion about matters such as housing, superannuation or any other matter which can come before a council for proper consideration, deliberation and decision. 
I raised this question because if this provision does not preclude him, let us get that clear. I think it probably does preclude him. I think it should be amended. I do not propose that amendment because I do not want in any way to hold up this Bill. I raise this matter so that it may be given further thought. What we need to do is to amend it so that it reads: 
A member who has a direct or indirect pecuniary interest in a matter being considered or about to be considered by the Council otherwise than as a member of, and in common with the other members of, an incorporated company or an association which consists of more than 25 members . . . 
If he is a member of a staff association and there are more than 25 members, that is fine: Let him be there and let him be able to contribute to the consideration by the Council of matters which may affect him. By all means require disclosure of pecuniary interests. It would be extraordinary if, for instance, the Council of the Maritime College was considering housing for staff and it did not realise that a staff member of the Council may have some potential pecuniary interest in relation to that matter. Let us ensure that it is disclosed. But let us not have it so that it precludes that person from continuing to offer whatever he can to the consideration of matters which can affect staff members of an academic institution. I raise this matter and I ask the Minister to comment on it. I do not wish this legislation to be held up but rather I give notice that if any honourable senator seeks to introduce such an amendment to the Australian National University Act or some other piece of legislation, then we will all have had time to give it some thought. I may not support that. In fact I may at some stage in the future propose an amendment to this Bill which we are considering tonight. 
Sub-clause ( 1 ) of clause 32 states: 
Fees are not payable to the College except as provided by this section. 
Sub-clause (2) states: 
The Council, with the approval of the Minister, may determine, or the Minister may direct - 
I emphasise the words 'or the Minister may direct'-  that fees are to be payable to the College in respect of such matters as are specified in the determination or direction. 
I wonder why it is that when creating an autonomous institution- a statutory authority, charged with a responsibility to carry out a purpose- we incorporate into the legislation which establishes that institution a capacity for the Minister to direct the Council to do anything at all, let alone anything in relation to fees. I am not sure what is in mind in relation to the charging of fees at the Minister's direction. I should have thought that if the Council were to get so out of hand that it was totally irresponsible we would disband it by passing some form of legislation. 
I raise the question because this provision does seem to me to make an intrusion into the autonomy of an institution which is intended to be created to carry out a function. The clause provides that the Minister may direct the Council on what fees are to be payable. It seems to me that once we have that sort of intrusion we might as well not have bothered to make the institution autonomous. If there is a need to introduce fees in this or any other institution, let it be by specific Act of the Parliament rather than by ministerial direction. I do not wish to hold up the passage of this Bill in any way, but I do wish to register both a query and, prima facie, subject to any answer the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  may give, a protest about that provision. 
I am sorry to find myself in a degree of disagreement with the Minister. I want to be quite clear the point that I was raising in relation to clause 32 (2). I would rather hope that we have a situation where fees are not generally payable, but if the Government wants to change its policy then through the Parliament it puts a change of policy which introduces in respect of whatever educational institution it wishes to impose the payment of fees upon, legislation which covers all of them. My objection to the provision in clause 32 (2) is that it means that at some time in the future some government may on a whim decide to change a policy about which the Parliament has one very firm view but about which a particular Minister may have a different view. It is in that aspect of ensuring that Parliament, having created, continues to have an interest in that which it has created that I raise this question. I wish to make it quite clear- not in relation to any particular Minister, any particular government, any particular time- that if the Minister of the day wants to change something like this he does it by specific legislation at the time, not by his capacity to give directions. 
-Clause 34 provides: 
The moneys of the College may be applied by the College only- 
in payment or discharge of the costs and expenses of the College under this Act; 
in payment of any remuneration or allowance payable to any person under this Act. 
The words I wish to direct attention to are the words 'costs and expenses'. I have discussed this clause with some eminent legal men who express a view that the words 'costs and expenses' are somewhat more limiting than the words that were used, for instance, in the Australian National University Act which refers to any payment or discharge for the purposes, rather than the costs and expenses, of the university or college. I note that clause 33, sub-clause 1 states: 
There are payable to the College such moneys as are appropriated by the Parliament for the purposes of the College. 
If we can appropriate moneys for the purposes of the College presumably the term 'costs and expenses' is intended to be interpreted as being related to costs and expenses which come within the overall term 'the purposes of the College'. If that is the proper interpretation of clause 34 when read in conjunction with clause 33, it would not be appropriate to regard the words costs and expenses' as being a limiting phrase as opposed to the term 'purposes' which has been used in other similar pieces of legislation. I raise this point because I think it is something that must inevitably arise for the concern and consideration of the Council of the Maritime College, when it is appointed. It may obtain some assistance in interpreting the Act. Will the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  confirm that it is his understanding that clauses 33 and 34 can and should be read together and that 'costs and expenses ' will be governed by 'purposes ' of the college and, therefore, it is the broad and not the narrow interpretation which ought to be applied? 
-Clause 39(1) provides: 
The Council shall, as soon as practicable after 31 December 1979, and after each succeeding 31 December, prepare and furnish to the Minister a report of the operations of the College during the year ending on that date, together with financial statements in respect of that year in such form as the Minister for Finance approves. 
In this legislation we are creating a statutory authority, an autonomous institution. In clause 39(1) we are introducing for the first time the Minister for Finance as opposed to the Minister for Education. Although it is not stated in the Bill we know that the funds for the College will only be supplied provided the Council of the College has ensured that it has kept accounts and made submissions to the Tertiary Education Council. Only after the Tertiary Education Council has received budgets and other appropriate documents, approved them and recommended them to the Minister for Finance, will the Council of the Maritime College receive the necessary funds to enable it to keep going in relation to recurrent or capital expenses. The point I raise is that if the financial statements which are required to be provided under clause 39(1) must be in such a form as the Minister approves, may this not lead to a situation in which there is a duplication and an unnecessary cost because we have created a separate body, the Tertiary Education Council, by legislation in this Parliament? We have given it responsibility to vet the form of accounts and the form of submissions. We have given it the responsibility to make recommendations to the Government and now we are going to say that whatever the Tertiary Education Council may require by way of accounts, the Council of the Maritime College may also be required to submit accounts in perhaps an entirely different form which would be determined by the Minister for Finance. I raise this again simply to obtain a comment from the Minister for Education. It is perhaps one of those things that requires some further consideration as to whether it may not have bugs in it. I raise it. I invite the Minister's comment. 
In order to help the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  appreciate the point I was making let me say that there has been a recent example, which I do not wish to cite specifically, of an authority which was created by the Parliament in 1975 and which has not yet reported to the Parliament. When we try to find out why it has not reported to the Parliament we find that it is because the Minister for Finance says that the accounts ought to be kept in one way; the AuditorGeneral says that he cannot certify them because the direction of the Minister for Finance, which means the direction of the Department of Finance, says another thing; and the statutory corporation says: 'We cannot keep them anyway in that sort of way because it is inappropriate '. There has been a barney going on for nearly three years as to how to keep the accounts because too many people have been introduced into the decision making process of how to keep the accounts. I think that, where something such as a statutory authority is set up with the Tertiary Education Commission or something else over the top of it and with the Auditor-General having a responsibility to look at the accounts as well, the Minister for Finance should be left out of it for once. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport been drawn to the agreement by the Tasmanian Government to provide a guarantee of $ 15m to the proposed Tiger Line shipping operation across Bass Strait from Westernport to Devonport? Is it a fact that there are three basic needs in providing an effective, efficient and competitive transport system for goods to and from Tasmania by sea? Is it a fact that the first need is regularity and frequency of service, the second is an over-capacity to allow for demand surges, and the third is a freight equalisation scheme to make it comparable and competitive with other forms of transport? Is it not a fact that those three basic needs now exist and that with the exception of some aspects of the freight equalisation scheme the system is working extremely well? Has any approach been made to the Commonwealth Government for any form of assistance in this Tiger Line project? Does the Commonwealth regard the introduction of this extra service as likely to improve Tasmanian shipping by added competition or rather as likely to disrupt an existing and satisfactory situation? 
I was somewhat surprised, but not all that surprised, to hear what  Senator Walsh,  whom I follow, had to say. Basically I should like to support what  Senator Archer  said in broad terms although there are some aspects which I wish to develop a little further. I do not want to take a great deal of time in restating what has already been stated in the debate in the House of Representatives as well as in this chamber, and what is well known anyway, in relaton to a whole lot of facts, figures and opinions. But let us have a look at the action proposed by the Opposition about which  Senator Walsh  has just been speaking. The Opposition proposes that we should agree to what is commonly known in this place as a pious resolution. The Opposition has moved that at the end of the motion 'that the Bill be now read a second time' the following words be added:  but the Senate is of the opinion that the Government should continue to provide funds to the States for new plantings in the same proportion as in previous agreements, of about SO per cent, in order to ensure that reasonable continuity of planting rates is maintained. 

 Senator Walsh had the temerity; I forbear from using another description which might apply- to suggest that the Senate's agreement to this amendment would ensure that the planting program would continue unabated in Australia. Of course it would not and everybody knows that it would not. That is why this sort of resolution whilst expressing an opinion and having some effect and importance, certainly cannot be categorised as it was attempted to be categorised by  Senator Walsh.  For that reason a number of people on this side of the chamber, being of a more constructive turn of mind, wish to see something more constructive done about the matter. It is in that light that I wish to make some suggestions to the Senate as to what may be able to be done. 
We are concerned with the future of a developable, replenishable resource in Australia. I understand from the highest authorities that Australia is one of the most efficient producers of softwoods in the world. In other words we are not flapping about something in relation to which Australia is inefficient or inappropriate as a producer. In fact, I understand that Australia can produce softwoods almost as efficiently as any other country and certainly far more efficiently than most other countries if given a chance. To have a chance the trees have to be planted. 
I refer now to the next phase. Some 1 1 years ago the Federal Government decided that in cooperation with the States it would endeavour to create this resource which can be developed. So the governments engaged in a softwoods planting program which has continued until the current year. This has produced a considerable area of growing softwood in Australia. But, as everybody knows, it is something like 15 yearsperhaps at the very earliest 10 years- before any production can be received from the plantings and then only from thinnings. A series of thinnings can be made but it takes in the order of 35 years before the real cut is available. Of course it does not matter if the softwood trees are not cut for further years. Once they have grown, once we have got them, we have a resource which is available provided it is not attacked by disease, fire or something else which may be described as an act of God 
The important question about the development of this resource is the planting of it because if the trees are not planted they are not growing. Once they are growing and we find that we have more than we need we can slow down. We can leave the trees to grow for an extra five years before they are cut and no harm is done. But it seems to me to be shortsighted to say at this stage of Australia's development of this potential major resource and at this stage of the assessment of Australia's future requirements that there is no need for any Commonwealth participation in the increased plantings of softwoods in Australia. 
It is proposed under the Softwood Forestry Agreement that the Commonwealth will provide $4.2m this year and somewhat similar amounts in future years for the maintenance of existing plantations. As they are cut they are not to be replaced. We will have a diminishing resource from a point of view of Commonwealth involvement. I believe that it is reasonable for this Senate to say that we are concerned about Australia's future and about ensuring that future generations are not deprived of a resource which we should have had the foresight to provide for them. I believe that it is a proper function of this chamber as a House of review to look at a question like this and to ask: Should we or should we not make recommendations for ensuring a greater availability and development of this resource over the next few years? I believe therefore that this is an appropriate matter to be considered by a Senate committee, using the Senate committee system which has been developed for the very purpose. 
Every honourable senator in this chamber is fully aware of the sort of work that has been done by Senate committees which have had Bills referred to them for examination and report. We all know of a number of instances of Bills which posed problems and about which there were varying opinions being referred to committees and coming back to this place with relative unanimity after inquiry and then being able to be passed with a considerable degree of relief on the part of those who were concerned about the provisions of the Bills. 
Thank you,  Senator Mulvihill.  That is an appropriate way of describing the situation at a time when we are talking about softwoods and timber. The amount involved in this Bill is about $4.2m. So far nobody has displayed any great urgency about getting the Bill through. The agreement was negotiated a long time ago. The amount of money for each State is a tiny percentage of each State's budget. I do not believe that any State will find itself to be in a dangerous situation if it does not receive the money within the next few weeks. I cannot believe that the situation is not one in relation to which this chamber can say that it would like through its committee system to consider whether we are depriving future generations of something to which they are entitled. If this matter were referred to a committee I believe that it would be a far more effective way of approaching the question than simply expressing an opinion which can then be ignored. I think that if this Bill is referred to a committee for consideration and a report is produced by it by the commencement of the next session in August we will have served future generations in a way in which we are required to serve them. A little foresight will not do any harm. 
There is another current aspect to which I would like briefly to refer and that is the question of employment. This is an industry which, at a time when there is a high level of unemployment in Australia, could provide with relatively small amounts of money a considerable number of jobs in country areas where employment may be hard to obtain. I will leave that to those of my colleagues who wish to develop it. I would like to see this Bill dealt with tonight and I do not want to take too long in contributing to this debate. I just make reference to that aspect as an obvious reason why we should reconsider the subject of plantings and the provision of some Federal Government encouragement and assistance towards that end. 
I think the general situation is summed up by two relatively brief quotes that I would like to read. The first is from a submission which was made to the Industries Assistance Commission by the Australian Particle board Manufacturers Association. It submitted: 
The lesson from the BAE experience- previously acknowledged at the FORWOOD Conference-- 
That was in 1974- is that frequent review is essential. The other lesson is that forestry is a long term business and it is difficult to quickly rectify the supply situation. 
I think those two points are terribly important. They are the two points on which I really base what I want to say. One is that frequent review is essential and the other is that we are dealing with something that cannot be quickly rectified if a mistake is made. A number of people in Australia believe that possibly it is a mistake to cut out plantings altogether. 
I am sorry.  Senator Archer  intervened and says that it is not a matter of cutting them out altogether. I accept the correction. What I meant was that some people believe that Commonwealth participation in the development program should be cut out. I think that to leave it to be developed in some other more haphazard way would be recreant of us because we have a responsibility to look at the Commonwealth's role. 
The other quote I want to refer to appeared in a submission made by one of the major users of softwood timber, that is, Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd. It submitted: 
While perhaps 30 years ago it was reasonable to consider a small pulp mill tailored to the low- by world standardstotal demand in Australia, it became obvious in the past 12 years that much larger pulping units were essential. Unless such units are to be of minimum size to afford economics of production, an Australian-based industry would be of disservice to the community and ultimately, would be forced into extinction. 
That is another broad aspect that has to be considered. We have to ensure that in association with the existing mills there will be adequate plantings to keep them going in future years and at an expanding rate because we have found that the economics of size are such that more is required to go through to keep a mill profitable and viable as a unit. Unless there are adequate plantings and expansion programs we may find that a number of mills in Australia will have to close. 
For the various reasons and expressions of concern that have been outlined generally by almost every speaker in this debate tonight I think that it is a proper function of the Senate to have this legislation looked at by a Senate committee. I believe that the appropriate committee to make a reasonably expeditious inquiry into this subject would be a committee of this chamber which already has looked at matters associated with softwood plantings in Australia, that is, the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment, which last year produced a report dealing particularly with the woodchip industry in Australia. That Committee has an association with softwood plantings. It has an experienced membership. I believe it has the capacity to make a relatively expeditious inquiry and to ensure that a report can be prepared and presented to this Senate by the beginning of the Budget session. Therefore, after the Opposition's amendment has been dealt with- I indicate now that for the reasons I have mentioned I will not be supporting the Opposition's amendmentI propose to move that this Bill be referred to the Legislative and General Purpose Standing Committee on Science and the Environment for a report as soon as possible but not later than 25 August 1978. 1 propose to move that amendment at the first opportunity after the Opposition's amendment has been dealt with. I believe that the Opposition's amendment will not be carried. I trust that the one which I have foreshadowed will be supported by the Opposition. If it believes that this is a matter of some seriousness that is one way in which we can constructively act in relation to this subject. I have foreshadowed my intention to move that amendment. 
I support the general concept of the Bill except to the extent that I am concerned that it may not go far enough because it curtails new plantings. I believe that in the interests of the future of Australia we should have an inquiry into that aspect in order to satisfy ourselves that the Bill is appropriate at the present time. The Bill covers a period of five years. We are dealing with quite a long period, not just the current year. I do not believe there would be any real disadvantage if this Bill were not passed immediately, whereas tremendous advantage could be gained from the opportunity of looking at it as a House of review should look at these sorts of matters. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development or to the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, whichever Minister regards it as appropriate for him to answer. Is it a fact that the Callaghan report in relation to Tasmania made certain recommendations about the potential development of Tasmania's tourist industry? Is it also a fact that since December last the Federal Government has been awaiting recommendations or proposals from the Tasmanian Government on the Callaghan report? Is it true that to date no such proposals have been put forward by the Tasmanian Government, notwithstanding the urging coming from the Federal arena? Is it an important aspect of the development of Tasmania that the Tasmanian Government should make the proposals as soon as possible so that the Commonwealth can play its part in developing that important industry for Tasmania? 

 - Mr President, I seek leave to make a statement relating to the motion which I foreshadowed when I last spoke on this matter. The statement will be brief and I believe it ought to be made prior to the conclusion of the debate. 
Leave granted. 
I indicated earlier that I proposed to move a motion for the reference of this Bill to the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment for inquiry and report to the Senate as soon as possible but not later than 25 August 1978. For various reasons, which have been outlined by previous speakers and particularly by  Senator Martin,  I believe it is not appropriate for me to pursue that particular proposal at this stage. The fear of the States and of the industry is not well founded; nevertheless, that fear is fairly strongly expressed. It would be most regrettable if funds were held up. 
I do not see the foreshadowed amendment as being likely to hold up the funds, for reasons which  Senator Martin  has explained, but I still believe, for reasons which I mentioned earlier, that there should be an inquiry. I think that I can speak on behalf of a number of my colleagues who have a similar view that there should be an inquiry. To which committee this matter should be referred for a rather more lengthy and in depth inquiry after the passage of the Bill is something which perhaps requires some further discussion. I would be seeking to ensure, either through taking up  Senator Archer's  suggestion or through one of the other possible variations, that there would be a reference to an appropriate 
Senate committee or one to be created of the question of the forestry industry in Australia, presumably taking hardwoods into consideration as well. Whilst I will not be pursuing the foreshadowed amendment, I wish to make it quite clear that I still adhere to everything I said earlier. There should be an inquiry and we will be seeking to have it come about as soon as possible. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce been able to obtain any further information in relation to the delay of some six months which has been experienced by the Commonwealth Government in waiting for any suggestions from the Tasmanian Government as to action which that Government seeks to be taken pursuant to the Callaghan report to develop tourism in Tasmania? 
-On 16 March last in the course of a debate in relation to the report of the Australian National University I made certain remarks relative to attacks which had been made on that University in particular and on universities and colleges generally. In refuting those attacks, particularly so far as the Australian National University was concerned, and in asserting that that University has a standard of great excellence in its achievements, I made reference to the particular journalist concerned. That journalist has today written me a letter. I wish to read what I said and, in fairness to that journalist, to read the reply which he now makes. I think it fair, as I have the opportunity to speak here under privilege, that he has the opportunity to have what he says in reply recorded and available to the public. I read from the Senate  Hansard  of 16 March 1978 in which I said: 
I deprecate the attacks which have been made on the Australian National University and some other universities by journalists such as  Mr Peter  Samuel. He is a journalist whose journalistic standards I believe leave a lot to be desired. He is a man who has pursued a vendetta against universities since he left them. One asks: Why did he do so? He is a man who appears to have a chip on his shoulder in relation to the activities of those who perhaps surpassed him in his would-be academic pursuits. Perhaps I could be as unfair as he has been in most of his articles in which he has condemned people without trial and without an objective approach to the matters about which he is writing. I will simply say: Let him explain why it is that he has a chip on his shoulder about universities before he starts to write any more articles condemning universities. 
I admit that there are things that are not right about universities. There are things that are not right about the way in which some of the universities- probably most of the universities- have been administered from time to time. There was an awful lot that was not right about the way in which the Australian Labor Party administered this country when it was in government. There is an awful lot that is not right about the way in which we administer it when we arc in government. There is an awful lot that is not right about everything that goes on throughout the world. If one looks at what is happening in respect of companies and if one looks at any section of the community one will find something wrong. But for a man to conduct a vendetta against those whom he found himself having to leave for one reason or another and to write with a vitriol that is more reminiscent of  Pravda  than it is of the Australia media - 
Then  Senator Mulvihill  said: 
I was thinking of Goebbels. 
I continued: 
Perhaps  Senator Mulvihill  has drawn my attention to a more appropriate illustration. I simply deprecate the sort of attacks that have been made. I do not think they are part of the Australian scene. I hope that the next time  Mr Samuel  proposes to look at an area in which he was once a participant he will be more objective and a little less personal. 

 Mr President, the articles to which I referred were in the magazine the  Bulletin  with such headings as 'Education', 'Plundering the Public Purse' and 'The Scandal of our Universities', and they are available for people to read. They were written in the early part of 1977, from March through to June. They made attacks which led to responses such as these two which 1 will quote before going on to read what  Mr Samuel  has written to me. The Australian 
National University's Vice-Chancellor, Professor Low, wrote to the  Bulletin  a letter which was published. Among other things, he said: 
Legal action against the ABC and the  Bulletin,  concerning statements made in the ABC's program  Monday Conference  and by Peter Samuel in the  Bulletin  article of 22 October, 1977, was contemplated only following Queen's Counsel's advice to the university that both statements were untrue and defamatory. The university's concern is simply to correct the record, not to suppress discussion. 
Such correction becomes the more necessary following the latest article, which is based on a distortion of information about university costs-per-student; on a persistent misconception of the financial arrangements for the university's Staff Amenities Fund; and on an exaggeration of the trivial. 
That is what Professor Low said. Another response to  Mr Samuel  's article came from  Mr L.  B. Wallis, the secretary of the Federation of Australian University Staff Associations. These are quite long letters from which I quote briefly, but they are available in editions of the  Bulletin.  Mr Wallis  said: 

 Mr Samuel's arguments are confused, his 'facts' are thinly scattered and inaccurate, and his generalisations from anecdotal evidence are so blatant that a reply in any depth is difficult. 
I quote those articles simply as a response not from me but from other people who are concerned. Because I believe fairness requires me to do so, I will read a letter  Mr Samuel  wrote to me on 9 May. It states: 
Dear  Senator, 
Someone has just drawn my attention to the  Hansard of  1 6 March, where a page is devoted to a vicious personal attack on me. 1 am amazed at this as the articles on the universities received an extraordinarily positive response, not least in the universities themselves. There was as much criticism of them on the lines 'You did not mention this scandal et cetera . . . ' as there was criticism of them for being too damning. I would have been more impressed by your attack on me if you had actually focussed on something I had said, and attempted to refute it, instead of speaking in generally abusive terms. Where was I wrong Senator? 
But I write mainly to have on record to you a denial of the slanderous suggestion that (a) I have a chip on my shoulder about universities (b) that I have pursued a vendetta against universities since I left them and (c) that I found myself having to leave for one reason or another'. All these propositions are false and if you were not speaking in that cowards castle under 'privilege' you would have had to answer in the courts for false and defamatory statements like this. 
I have no chip on my shoulder at all about universities. People in universities had to nag at me to get me to write about them. I happen to regard proper universities as a vital component of a civilised society and absolutely essential to the maintenance and development of knowledge and culture and many essential, professional skills. I wrote out of sorrow and some dismay at the trends in universities hoping to help them not hurt them. 
Second you could not possibly claim I pursued any vendetta. In 14 years in journalism, having written I would estimate some 3,000 to 4,000 articles I think I would not have written more than 4 about universities, only one- that was a pure news story about a dispute- of those before 1976. The recent three articles started as simply one article but the interest it aroused led my editor to ask me to follow up. Also a particularly stupid threat of legal action by the ANU forced us to reply making a third article. 
Third, it is the opposite of the truth to suggest I was forced to leave universities. On the contrary I was attracted out into journalism by the offer of a much better salary than I was getting and the potentially greater excitement of journalism. I can well remember the head of department pleading with me to stay on longer at Monash University. For the record, I was given a quick promotion to Senior Teaching Fellow and I do not know of any complaints about my teaching. I think I could probably have made a career in academia though 1 have no regrets about having left it. I think I work best to the deadlines imposed in journalism, but I think I could have done reasonably well in universities. 
I suspect you have been misled by one or two university administrators who have fabricated some slanders against me. 
Yours 
PETER SAMUEL 
PS: I think I can dig up a letter from my boss at Monash asking me to stay on. 
Without saying anything further, I wanted to read that reply for the record. I retract nothing of what I said originally. 
I too would like to be associated with the sentiments expressed in this chamber. I took  Sir Denham  Henty 's place in this Chamber. I had a close association with him both prior and subsequent to that. In my maiden speech I made a reference to  Sir Denham.  I said something which I think can be aptly repeated today. I referred to his role in the development of the committee system and in particular to his foresight in relation to the creation of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution. I said: 
It may well be that the future generations will pay homage to the foresight of that man. I believe that not only did  Sir Denham  play an active and important part in the development of this nation during his term in this House, but that it may well be we shall all realise that his greatest contribution came in the select committee system which he, more than anyone else, encouraged and nurtured. 
I do not wish to repeat what has been said by others. I simply add my support to the motion. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware that the annual report of the Australia-Japan Foundation, which was tabled in the Senate yesterday, did not contain a report by the AuditorGeneral on the financial statements of the Foundation? Does the Australia-Japan Foundation Act require the annual report and financial statements to be accompanied by a report of the Auditor-General when presented to the Parliament? If so, will this report have to be reprinted and represented to the Parliament? If that happens, what will be the likely additional costs incurred by the failure in the first place to comply with the Act? 
Pursuant to order, 
I present the report from Estimates Committee E on the particulars of proposed additional expenditure for the year 1977-78, together with the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to table written replies received by Estimates Committee E since the Committee reported to the Senate on 1 1 May 1978. 
Leave granted. 
I table the replies and seek leave to have them incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
I ask the Attorney-General, a question in relation to the provision of legal aid in Tasmania. In view of the parlous state of funding, which has resulted in difficulty in providing deserved legal aid for the community, has he been able to take any action that will alleviate the problem and enable legal aid to flow, as it should, to needy people? 

 - Senator Harradine has invited me as a Senate representative on the Australian National University Council to respond as well as inviting the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  to respond. 1 am not quite sure whether he wants to be able to eat the cake and have the plum as well or whether it is just a matter of making sure that he gets a response from all possible directions. I can only say that the matters which he has raised are matters which first I, as a member of the Council, shall refer to the Vice-Chancellor; secondly, I shall ensure that the Council places the matters on its agenda for consideration. I do not wish to comment further in particular about the matters which he has raised, but rather to make a couple of general comments. I totally agree that a radio licence does not mean total licence. I certainly would not wish to argue that because a station has a licence to broadcast it has a licence to do whatever it at any particular time might wish to do. 
Further, without commenting on the particular matters raised by  Senator Harradine,  I should like to say that I think it is important to remember that knowledge of issues involves the opportunity for discussion and for various views to be put. Whilst  Senator Harradine  might say that he would see it as a matter of advertising the equivalent of a bank robbers' association meeting, I think it might be important for the community to know that there was a bank robbers' association and that it was holding a meeting. I think there would be some justification for that advertisement. The extent to which one publicises that event, the way in which one publicises it, the extent to which one provides an opportunity for both sides to be given and the extent to which one allows the community to understand the issue and to make a judgment upon the matters involved are questions of discretion- the exercise of some sort of responsibility on the part not only of a radio licensee but also of any newspaper or even this chamber. 

 Senator Harradine has seen fit to publicise in this chamber the matters which were publicised over that radio station broadcast. He believed that it was important for what he sees as the redress of the wrong to publicise the matter. It might well be that that radio station believed that it was important to ensure that there was an understanding that this sort of attitude was held by some people and it believed that so people could know it existed and could make a judgment about it the station should provide an opportunity for that view to be put forward, albeit so that it could be condemned. 
Without wishing to comment on the particular and in an endeavour to keep to the general tonight in relation to what is expected of this type of radio station, I simply say that I hope that the radio station which, I accept, has a clear association with the Australian National University will fulfil a role of informing the public. I hope that it will do so according to standards. I hope that it will do so according to at least one standard which is, as I said earlier, that a licence for broadcasting does not mean total licence. I do not wish to debate the issue with  Senator Harradine  tonight. I think it would be far more relevant if I were simply to follow through with what I have already indicated I will be happy to do. I am sure the other Senate representative on the Council,  Senator James  McClelland, will be prepared to join me in ensuring that this matter is referred to the Council and is considered by the Council. The response will be a matter for that Council. I can take the matter no further at this stage. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I ask: Is it a fact that the Commissioner of Taxation has decided that the trading stock valuation allowance does not apply to motor dealers who, by necessity, finance their stock by bailment arrangements with finance companies? As I understand the situation, it tends to be the smaller motor dealers who are forced to operate in this way and who are not able to create a wholesaling company as an intermediary. I also ask: Is it a fact that the Australian Finance Conference has expressed the view that it is impracticable for it to claim and to pass on the benefits of the trading stock valuation allowance to the motor dealers? In view of the fact that the investment allowance provisions were amended by the Government to permit, according to certain rules, lessees to benefit from that allowance, will the Government as a matter of urgency- an urgency created by the fact that 30 June is the relevant date for the trading stock valuation allowance- and as a matter of equity, make amendments to the provisions to enable motor dealers who finance their trading stock by a bailment plan, commonly known as a floor plan, to claim the benefit of the allowance? 
by leave- I want to comment briefly about certain matters raised by  Senator Haines  when she said that the only person who foresaw the problems that can arise in relation to the Senate casual vacancies amendment which was made to the Constitution last year was the South Australian representative of her Party who attended the Constitutional Convention. Whilst that may be true of those people who were at the Constitutional Convention, I would draw attention to the fact that members of this chamber very clearly expressed their concern and their reservations in the No case which was published at the time of the referendum last year. All of the matters to which  Senator Haines  referred and more were set out in the No case in relation to this proposal which now has become part of the Constitution. It was unfortunate that for reasons which history records, the opportunity for debate in this chamber was extremely limited and those who may have wished to put some of those arguments at the time the Bill was being discussed in this chamber were not able to do so. I think practically the whole time for the debate was taken up by  Senator Colston  talking about his experience in Queensland. Those senators who voted against this referendum proposal set out in the No case their reservations and their concern at the unworkable nature of the proposal. It was not limited to one person - 
I wanted to make it quite clear that whilst  Senator Haines  was talking about the Constitutional Convention, there were others in this chamber who were not at the Convention who had reservations. There are a number of other aspects which arise in relation to the motion at present before the chamber which I believe require further consideration and discussion. For that reason I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs. Is it a fact that the Australian National Gallery is conducting an exhibition, 'The Genesis of a Gallery Part 2 ', which is to be opened tomorrow evening by the Governor-General,  Sir Zelman  Cowen? Is it a fact that some 700 invitations have been sent out to people to attend the opening tomorrow evening? Is it also a fact that the telephone number on the invitation for the RSVP gave the area code prefix of Sydney rather than Canberra? Is it further a fact that several hundred phone calls have been received by an innocent, certainly unconnected, Sydney family who have had to redirect them to the correct number? Will the Minister inquire whether the Gallery could not only extend an invitation to the people who have been so inconvenienced but also provide them with fares and accommodation expenses so that they too can enjoy what they have had such a large part of already? 
I seek leave to table additional written replies received by Estimates Committee E since the Committee reported to the Senate on 1 1 May 1 978. 
Leave granted. 
I table the replies and seek leave to have them incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee 's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
I started to speak on this matter some time ago. At that time I sought the adjournment of the debate so that we could give further consideration to the position of this chamber and the position of the Commonwealth generally in relation to this Constitutional Convention which has been proceeding now for nearly six years. It has not achieved any great success. In fact, I think it would be fair to say that there has been a marked lack of success. I believe that one of the reasons for this is that the Constitutional Convention is basically representative of the executives of the governments of Australia and the executives of the oppositions of Australia and is not representative of the parliaments of Australia, nor of the people of Australia. I regard that as a somewhat fundamental defect which needs rectification. 
I believe that this chamber is totally inadequately represented. It has six representatives as against 10 representatives from the House of Representatives at this Convention, yet this is an equal chamber. Within the total federal compact which was arrived at as a result of the numerous constitutional conventions of the 1880s and 1890s which led to federation, this chamber was created as an equal House. It has powers, it has responsibilities. But it has not always been given opportunity either to respond to or to exercise those powers and responsibilities. I think that this is all too typical of the way events have led us in Australia. The troubles we have, which are fundamental, with our Constitution in practice are because executive power has been permitted to override constitutional arrangement. The constitutional arrangement was that we had two equal Houses. But when we come to a constitutional convention we find that this House has six representatives and the House of Representatives has 10 representatives. The situation, therefore, is that we are grossly outnumbered by the other House, even though we are equal Houses. The principle of equal Houses just does not apply. 
I believe that if we have delegates to a constitutional convention representing the executive governments of the houses of parliament of the various States of Australia, what we will have is discussion which takes place on the basis of what is most convenient for an executive government rather than what is in the best interests of democracy and federalism in Australia. I believe that our real concern ought to be what are the interests of our federal compact; what are the interests of federalism in Australia; where are the defects in the Constitution which time has revealed; and how best can we overcome those defects. I think that the fiasco of the referendum last year- it was a most unfortunate fiasco- is the best demonstration I can produce of why we ought to be cautious about how we approach the next Constitutional Convention and any which are held thereafter. What was demonstrated in that referendum was that in relation to an attempt to deny the Senate its position of equal power and equal responsibility a majority of people in three States did not agree. 
Thank God for Section 128 of the Constitution. Thank God for the requirement that there should be a referendum. Thank God for the opportunity for democracy to prevail in a way which relates peculiarly to a federal compact. That is, that powers are not taken away from a State simply because some States have grown bigger and some States have not. If that happens, all that will be demonstrated is what one of our more beloved colleagues has said on many occasions. I refer to  Senator Reg  Wright who unfortunately retires from this chamber on 30 June. He has often said that those who live closest to the bakehouse get the best bread. That is a salutary thought for anybody who lives in a small State. For anybody who lives in a Territory that would like to become a State, it is even a more salutary thought. 
Except for  Senator Knight  who thinks that because he lives in the Australian Capital Territory where the people are the closest to the bakehouse, they will have the first choice. All I can say is that they may well find themselves put in the oven. I think we can be proud of our Federation. We can look at our Federation and our Constitution and say, 'Thank God for futureology'. That is a new word. Thank God for the futureology which was displayed by those people who attended the constitutional conventions of the 1880s and the 1890s'. They put together a compact which prevented in most instances the numbers overriding the principles. 
I was disappointed when recently a situation arose in respect of arrangements for the sittings of the Parliament. Those members who lived closest to the bakehouse- that is, within a 20- minute or a 40-minute flight of Canberraoverwhelmed the other members in respect of what the arrangement ought to be. It was decided that the Parliament should sit frequently and often and that members should flit back and forth for lots of sittings but not to prevent members from getting home for dinner. That was almost the basis upon which the decision was taken. I regard that as unfortunate. I think that Australia is a great deal bigger than Sydney, Melbourne and Canberra. 
One of the points that the Constitutional Convention must remember is that a great Australia will depend upon the whole of Australia, not just Melbourne and Sydney; not the mob of people who are living on protection, on the well-being and the resources developed by the producer States of Australia. It will depend not upon a situation which has developed as a result of the policies of a government dominated by Melbourne and Sydney, regardless of the party that is in power. The people of those areas are protected by a whole series of policies at the expense of the other people of Australia. It is important to bear this in mind when we are talking about the Constitutional Convention, when we are talking about safeguards, when we are talking about the role of the Senate, when we are talking about the Senate as a States House, when we are talking about the compact that was originally agreed to when people surrendered their rights to be independent and were brought together as one Australian nation. It was not a surrender; it was a contract, a compact or an agreement whereby they would be protected from the overwhelming numerical power of the two major population centres. This is what this chamber is all about. The States of Western Australia, Queensland, South Australia and Tasmania exist today as a result very largely of the existence of this chamber. 
I would be the first to recognise that these States have not fared all that well. What we have done in relation to tariff protection policies, in relation to featherbedding manufacturing, in relation to ensuring that some people got the best of the goodies and some people had to work for them has not been altogether desirable. That does not mean that I wish to advocate we should break up the Federation. But it does mean that there is good reason to ensure that we do not just hand over entirely the total powers of the governments of this country to the areas which have managed to featherbed their populations. For that sort of reason and for a host of other reasons about which I would like to speak but about which time does not permit me to speak, I would like to stress to the Senate the importance of ensuring that our Constitution is not monkeyed with on a basis which panders to popularity and not to principle. I would like to suggest, for instance, that honourable senators ensure that this chamber receives a better and more adequate representation at the Constitutional Convention. There will be six members of this chamber present, a total of 72 representatives from the States and 10 members from the House of Representatives. Where is this chamber placed? It is almost nowhere on the list. I wonder whether a Constitutional Convention which is a meeting of the executive nominees of the various government of Australia, a Constitutional Convention which virtually disregards one of the equal Houses of the Parliament of the Commonwealth is a Constitutional Convention which we should support. 
I propose to support the motion, but with reluctance. I think that it is appropriate to mention some of these matters to show that we are not just going along in a supine manner with the continuation of an undesirable situation. I think there is a necessity for a little consideration to be given, even to some of the principles for an elected Constitutional Convention. I know that Bills have been introduced as far back as 1921 to give consideration to an elected convention to consider the Constitution. I do not think that we can dismiss that fact. We should continue to talk about it. Why should the people of Australia not have some say directly about those people who are to discuss the future amendments to their Constitution, as opposed to the executives which are so far removed by processes of election from the people that, whilst we can say that democracy prevails, we cannot say that for this purpose democracy prevails. The executives were elected, not for the purpose of considering the Constitution, but to run the day-to-day government of their States or the country. That does not mean that they have an absolute right to nominate who shall go to a Constitutional Convention, who shall participate in it and who shall express views. 
I say: Thank God for the people of Australia who are prepared to be sufficiently independent to say, when the referendum was held, that they did not mind if those members of Parliament who were opposed to it were gagged almost out of existence- gagged from being able to speak in this chamber and elsewhere when those proposals were being put forward. The resentment against the use of the gag on that occasion to ram through the referendum proposals and to prevent people who felt strongly about these matters from having an opportunity even to say why it was that they proposed to vote against them will take some years to work out of the system. I think that whilst we have an opportunity to discuss this Constitutional Convention we ought to give some thought to what it means. It is not a junket. It is not just an opportunity for a few people to gather together to say a few words. A few words! That reminds me of the fact that only 1,500 words were expressed on the most controversial matter in the last four referendum proposals dealt with at the Constitutional Convention in Hobart. Only 1,500 words were spoken by delegates on the question of the so-called simultaneous election proposals. Probably, I have already said more than 1,500 words tonight in this speech. Yet, that was the so-called discussion of a matter which was fundamental to the future of this chamber, fundamental to the way or the direction in which our federalism and our nation will go in the future. It really has been a farce. If honourable senators read through the debates, they will see that the consideration of questions and the real debate just has not taken place. What has happened is that there has been caucusing, party division and a situation in which the real matters have not received proper discussion, in which they have received a caucus vote from a number of executive appointments from both the major political parties in this country. I am decrying neither one nor the other. I am simply saying that that is not a good enough approach to the question of constitutional amendment. If we continue to adopt that approach we will have a situation such as we had in May last year when the country, the parties and the people were divided on basic principles. That was demonstrated by the result of the referendum last year. It is one thing for some people to say that 60 per cent of the people of Australia voted in favour of simultaneous elections-- 
I thank the honourable senator. It is one thing to say, as  Senator Missen  reminds me, that 62 per cent voted in favour of the proposal for simultaneous elections. Maybe they did. I just wonder how many of the people to whom the proposal mattered voted. I know that in my area 74 per cent of the people voted against the shoddy simultaneous elections proposal. Shoddy it was because the proposal did not represent what was meant. Over a period of years people who took an interest in politics, people who took an interest in their Constitution and people who took an interest in the future of their country were led to believe that a situation existed whereby if they were to agree to a proposal for so-called simultaneous elections, that that would destroy the power of the Senate. As I have many times heard expressed in this chamber, the Senate should act as an independent House of review. Its review function should be related to the States and their role in our Federal compact. It is a review function which is related to the review of the Executive and, in particular, to ensuring that it has the power to require accountability out of not only the Parliamentary Executive but also the administrative executive. 
All these matters were debated. In three of the States under our fundamental principles a majority of people said no. I thought that that was one of the most encouraging things that I had seen for many years in this country. What it meant was that people generally were prepared to distinguish between different referenda proposals. It has been said many times that in Australia we cannot get a referendum through because people will just act conservatively. The referendum last year showed that that is just not true. The average Australian voter is intelligent, he does pay attention to the issues and he casts an intelligent vote. The referendum result meant that in three of the six States a majority of voters saw themselves as people in a smaller State threatened by what was happening. They did not see their position threatened by the other proposals and they agreed to them. They distinguished between the various proposals being put forward. I thought this was an encouraging sign from the point of view of constitutional reform. 
I believe that the arguments in relation to constitutional reform have tended to be negative. Some people have said that there is no point in putting up proposals for constitutional reform because people will not vote for them. It has been said that they are just ' no ' voters, that a majority of them are negative voters or that a majority of people in a majority of the States are negative voters and that we cannot get a referendum through. In fact, a significant number of referenda have gone through. What was demonstrated last year was that where we put up sensible reform people will vote yes and where we put up dangerous reform, the people of some States or of some parts of Australia will vote no. I think this is an encouraging sign. It makes us believe that it is worthwhile looking to a constitutional convention which represents the people from all the States and from the various Houses of the Parliaments of Australia. I hope that one day the convention will represent the people more directly than that. I hope that the people will elect their own delegates. But at least we can say that if we propose a sensible reform, which is acceptable across the board to Australian people, it is likely to be accepted by them. That makes the continuation of the attempt to consider the reform of the Constitution worthwhile. But if reform is done on a basis of playing party politics, if it is done on a basis of seeing whether we can snap through something or other and then whack it over the people, then I believe, as last year's result shows, we are not likely to succeed. 
I hope that when we further consider the reform of the Australian Constitution the Senate will be adequately represented. I hope that the smaller States will express a view which is independent of a view which may be expressed by others of the same political colour but who perhaps come from some of the bigger States. Australia is a divided nation. That was part of the problem that brought it together. It was part of the reason why my State of Tasmania was at the forefront of the Federation movement. The people of that State believed that it was absurd to continue to have tariff barriers and transport, communication and commercial problems between States. They thought that it was better to try to have one Federal economy. But they did not say: 'We will simply surrender all our rights, all our future to wherever the numbers may be in some featherbedded industrial centres'. Unfortunately in Australia, as a result of the free trade versus protectionist debates which took place relatively early in the history of this Federation, a number of industries have been featherbedded A not unnatural result has been the accumulation of population in those areas. 
To the people who think that the future of Australia is to be found in the featherbedded areas I can only say: 'Come on the next constitutional convention when there will be an opportunity for those who have been producing and working to talk, to ensure that the compact agreed to originally is not destroyed. Otherwise the result will be that the secessionist movement which has been seen in a number of States and which is not unreal will start to gain force until it reaches the stage where secession will become a reality'. It is not a matter of Sydney and Melbourne sneering at the other States; it is a matter of them recognising that numbers are not the only answer. Numbers are not the basis upon which we get agreement as to how best to manage a national economy. Numbers are not the answer when we have a compact which is put together by specific arrangement. Some of those who were smaller in number and who were likely to remain smaller in number contributed significantly to the economy far more by earning overseas exchange and they will continue to have a say. Otherwise they will be better off by separating from this Commonwealth. 
Those people would in many ways be better off saying: 'We are sick and tired of being in a situation where we are regarded as being something of a poor relation notwithstanding the fact that we produce more, that we earn more by way of overseas trade and that we could better run a separate economy. We are talked down to by the financial centres, the manufacturing centres, the centres of big population, the centres which carry sway in the other House of this Parliament because of their numbers '. 
Thank God, they do not carry the sway in this chamber. Here we have equal representation between the regional areas, the States which were the original members of the compact. I look forward to the day when we can reform some of the areas of the Constitution. But woe betide the day when Melbourne and Sydney think that they can just ride roughshod over the small States and over the producer areas. If we would look at the economics of the situation we would find that three States would be far better off if they ran independent economies instead of participating in this national economy. I do not advocate that step. When we are talking about constitutional conventions, about a States house having inadequate representation out of the total Commonwealth parliamentary representation, and about what changes we ought to be making to the Constitution, I ask people to bear in mind that it is not unreal to suggest that many parts of Australia would be better off to go it alone than they would be to succumb to being ridden over by a feather-bedded majority. 
-I recognise that there may be some difficulty with the timing of my remarks. One of the most reprehensible remarks that I have heard in my life was made in this chamber just before the question was put for the adjournment of the Senate. I think that fairness requires that this night an opportunity be given to me to respond, even though to do so might be a technical breach of Standing Orders. I hope that there will not be an objection if I simply say - 
A remark was made about a man for whom I think every honourable senator has considerable regard for his capacity, for his long service to this chamber and for his courage. Whether we agreed with him or whether we did not agree with him, I do not think it is fair or reasonable for honourable senators to leave this chamber this evening with the comment which was made unchallenged. 
I am talking about a comment which was totally out of order during the debate. 
I should like to speak to the point of order because  Senator Douglas  McClelland has kindly done exactly what I wanted. I can now speak about the comment. I can now refer to one of the most lamentable remarks that I have ever heard, which was made by- 

 - Mr President, may I speak a little further to the point of order? The point is that because of the sequence of events- the remark was made just before the compulsory putting of the question on the adjournment at 10 o'clock- there was not an opportunity for any honourable senator on this side of the chamber to speak in response to the remark, nor in the circumstances was there the opportunity to pursue a point of order. A point of order was being taken in relation to an interjection by my colleague,  Senator Archer,  who naturally took equal exception to the remark which was made. 
I thank the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Wriedt,  for his comment. May I explain what the problem is and why I think something ought to be said about it tonight? Tonight one of our colleagues in this place made an announcement to which an extremely disparaging remark was made. The remark was totally irrelevant to any matter which was before the chamber. 
By way of interjection  Senator McLaren  wants me to repeat his disparaging remark. I simply wish to have an opportunity to say that I think that that disparaging remark was totally unfounded. The record will show that it was totally unfounded. The person about whom the reference was made has consistently held a very strong view in relation to the subject which was before the chamber at the time and which caused him to take the step he took tonight. I think that to attempt to belittle such an action by a man who has served in this chamber for as long as he has, with the marked distinction with which he has served in this chamber - 
Thank you,  Mr President.  I believe there is little more that I need to say tonight. What I have been able to do by one means or another is to point to the fact that an unfair remark was made about a man who has made an announcement which undoubtedly will be reported. If that remark were to appear to be the only comment on the announcement, it would be totally unfair. The remark was unfounded in fact and unfounded on any basis of decency. 
I am content. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I had proposed by way of explanation to make some comments in relation to that matter and I now seek leave to make a brief explanation in relation to an event which took place yesterday. It is relevant to the subject matter of the motion just moved by  Senator Sir Reginald  Wright. 
Leave granted. 
At least one of this morning's newspapers carried a report which represented that last night a number of honourable senators supported  Senator Sir Reginald  Wright's amendment, not his motion, that his Bill be called on. I want to make it clear that my view remains unchanged from the way I voted previously. Last night I and, I believe, some other honourable senators thought that  Senator Sir Reginald  Wright should have the opportunity which has now been given to him by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  at least to make his second reading speech before he retires from the Parliament. It was only that matter that I supported; not his Bill. 
I did not speak during the debate on the motion that the Bill be now read a second time because of the shortage of time to deal with the large volume of business before the Senate and the arrangement that senators should speak only once on a Bill. Therefore I should like to speak for a little longer than one might normally speak when making a point in the Committee stage merely to explain why I wish to move the amendments which I understand have been typed. I ask that they be circulated in the chamber. The amendments refer to clause 3 and clause 5 which in part read: 
Clause 3. 
Section 6ba of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 applies in every case where the bonus shares referred to in that section were or are allotted after 1 6 August 1977. 
Clause 5. 
The amendments made by this section apply in relation to shares allotted by a company after 16 August 1977 in satisfaction of a dividend payable in respect of other shares in the company. 
The amendments relate to the retrospectivity provisions in the Bill. I make it quite clear that I totally support the Bill in every respect in regard to the elimination of the tax avoidance schemes and particularly the elimination of the Curran scheme. However, I do not support the introduction of retrospective legislation whereby the Bill has effect from 16 August 1977. 1 believe that in relation to any matter where a penalty is imposed retrospectivity is totally undesirable where the law is changed to make unlawful an act which people believed was lawful at the time they did it. 
A brief outline of the historical facts in relation to this legislation is that in 1 974 the High Court decided that a sharebroker called Curran could legitimately use artificially created losses to set off against his income. In late 1974 the then Treasurer, the third-last Labor Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  said that the Labor Government would take steps to make that type of action unlawful. In other words, he would close that tax avoidance gap. Nothing further was heard on the matter until 1977 when the second-most recent Liberal Treasurer, that is, five Treasurers later, said that the Government proposed to take action in relation to closing the gap on tax avoidance. He did not mention that any such action would be taken retrospectively and he did not specifically mention the Curran scheme. So it was not until the present Treasurer,  Mr Howard,  in April this year, introduced this Bill that anyone had any reason to believe that retrospective legislation was being considered let alone would be introduced. I therefore do not accept any of the arguments that have been put that people had warning that the Curran type schemes would be made unlawful retrospectively. 
If the Treasurer on behalf of the Government makes a statement that we will take certain action to eliminate something or to make something unlawful and that the legislation will have effect as from today, and there is a public announcement to that effect and it is quite clear, I have no objection at all. But when no warning at all has been given about introducing retrospective legislation or an intention to introduce it, other than merely a broad statement such as that which was made by the then Treasurer,  Mr Lynch,  in August last year, that is not a basis on which the Government can justify the introduction of retrospectivity, nor do I believe that its introduction can be justified on the basis that there will be a large loss to revenue unless the gap is closed retrospectively. 
The fact is that if a government elected by the people has been negligent in permitting a large loss of revenue to take place, then I am afraid that the people who will have to carry the can for that loss are the people who elected that government. It is not a matter of imposing a penalty selectively on a few to make up for lost revenue. I do not support any measure which puts a price on principle, and really that is what the argument on lost revenue is all about. People say that there should not be retrospectivity unless the cost to revenue is very great. I believe that people are entitled to act according to the law, whether it is good law or not so good law. People are entitled to have their actions judged in accordance with the law as it exists at the time they take action, and that is fundamental. A number of speakers in both this and the other chamber have cited various authorities in relation to this point and I will not detain the Committee by repeating the quotations. I believe that  Senator Tehan  cited some most apt examples in this chamber. 
I also refer very briefly to section 260 of the existing Act which was quoted by  Senator Sir Reginald  Wright in his speech. I will not quote it again. That section, broadly interpreted, as it was intended to be, I imagine, could mean that where Curran-type schemes are manufactured for the sole purpose of avoiding tax- which is the allegation which has been made in regard to what has been happening since 1974- the Commissioner of Taxation could set aside the claims and his action could be upheld in the High Court. I still hope and trust that the Commissioner will be taking action to use the powers under section 260 in relation to every one of the artificial taxation avoidance schemes, and particularly the Curran scheme. But again, any limitations on the interpretation of section 260 are not in my view a justification for the introduction of retrospectivity. 
A point made by  Senator Sir Reginald  Wright in his speech was that taxation is for the whole of the business year and is determined at the end of that year, and therefore the law can be changed at any time during that year so long as it is clear at the end of the year what the law applying for the whole of that year may be. I suggest that that theory would create total business chaos. Business decisions, investment decisions, personal investment decisions as well as the totality of business decisions must be made having regard amongst other things to the incidence of taxation and the effect of taxation on the available cash flow in relation to the particular business being undertaken. To change the rules halfway through the year is in my view to invite a total loss of confidence in the business community. It is to invite total business chaos. It would be clearly as disastrous as some of the actions which were taken by the Labor Government which were not intended to create business chaos during the period Labor was in office but which in fact did do so. This action would be identical to some of those absurd actions such as using the Commonwealth Public Service as the trend-setter in wages and creating the most incredible inflation that this country has seen. I believe that if that sort of attitude which was put forward by  Senator Wright  were adopted- and even the introduction of retrospectivity is nearly as bad- it would create uncertainty leading to a loss of confidence and would lead to further regression in the economy. I would hope that no one would ever accept that proposition. 

 - Senator Townley makes a point which I accept. I congratulate the Government for taking action to close tax loopholes but I do not congratulate it on the grounds of expediency. I certainly do not congratulate it on the introduction of retrospectivity because in my view it is totally unjustifiable. 
Reference has been made to the Liberal Party platform. It has been suggested that the platform permits retrospectivity because it says that tax avoidance schemes will be eliminated. It does not say that tax avoidance schemes will be eliminated retrospectively. In fact it says that the rights of taxpayers are safeguarded by ensuring that taxation adjustments do not have retrospective effect. I adhere to the Liberal Party platform which is quite clear on this matter. I adhere to the view which has been expressed by my own Party in my own State, through its State Executive and various of its electorate committees and branches, not to have a bar of retrospectivity. With that in mind I move: 
In clause 3, sub-clause (2), leave out ' 16 August 1977', insert '7 April 1978'. 
-When I first spoke in the Committee stage I was under the impression that the debate would be confined to the amendments that I had moved. I thought that there would be relatively few speakers and that a vote would be taken on amendments fairly quickly. But that did not happen. Having confined my remarks, as I now find unduly, I wish to speak again briefly to refer to one or two other aspects. Firstly, I want to ask the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack):  Why has the Government chosen to use this form of retrospectivity as a means of achieving its objective, as opposed to moving to amend section 80 of the Income Tax Assessment Act which provides for the carrying forward of losses of previous years? 
Had the Government been concerned to save the revenue, had it been concerned to uphold the principle of no retrospectivity, then one approach could have been simply to say: 'As from the announcement in April of an intention to amend section 80, it will not be possible to carry forward any of the losses of the Curran scheme type from any previous year'. That sort of an approach would not have applied full retrospectivity it contains a retrospective element in its effect- but at least it would have been better than the method which the Government has adopted. I ask the Attorney-General to comment on what is wrong with adopting that approach. It is an approach which is still being put forward. 
As a matter of fact, during the luncheon break I received a further telegram from a firm in Melbourne making that suggestion. The name of the firm is not familiar to me. I do not know whether it is a firm of solicitors or accountants. It was a suggestion that I had previously put to a firm of solicitors in that State, an esteemed firm of solicitors in Melbourne, which has in no way been involved in any of the Curran schemes but which has a very strong view in relation to retrospectivity. I asked the firm for its view as to an amendment to section 80 and its considered view was that it regards that approach as preferable to the Curran proposal but still considers that it involves retrospectivity because it seeks to change the position after the action has taken place. In summary, it is the lesser of two evils but, as a matter of legal principle, it was the view of that firm, which would be well known to the Minister, that there should be no element of retrospectivity in any legislation. It was the combined view of the partners of that esteemed firm, which has not been engaged in any of the touting for business of whacking through tax avoidance schemes and the other things that have been commented on. 
I have found some of the reference to so-called legal authority in relation to retrospectivity to be less than the standard which I had hoped for from some of the speakers from which it has come. I make no further comment than that. I ask the Attorney-General: Why can section 80 not be used as the means of saving the public purse by simply making the artificially created losses losses which cannot be carried forward for deduction? There are other aspects to which I would like to have addressed myself but I did not think that time was as liberally available as some of the other speakers apparently thought it was. I shall contain myself to making just one of about ten points that I deleted from my earlier speech. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator DrakeBrockman)  I call the Attorney-General. 
by leave- On behalf of the  chairman  of Senate Estimates committees and further to the resolution of the Senate of 28 February 1978 I lay on the table a report relating to the operation of Senate Estimates committees. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I present the report and transcript of evidence from the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations on its inquiry into the establishment, operation and disposal of Wiltona Hostel, Williamstown, Victoria. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
I remind the Senate that on 28 February 1978 the Senate requested that the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations investigate and report on the establishment, operation and disposal of Wiltona Hostel, Williamstown, Victoria. The Committee's task basically has been to establish how and why an asset financed by the taxpayer at an original cost of $2.2m between 1966 and 1971, with a current replacement cost of between $6m and $8m- that is, the Wiltona Hostel- came to be built; why it has remained virtually unused for almost six years; and what is to be done with it. The Committee has concluded that the site at Wiltona is totally unsuitable for use as a migrant hostel, being bordered on all sides by a petrochemical and gas complex. The Committee has consequently also concluded that the consultative process and the criteria used in the unfortunate decision in 1965 to rebuild Wiltona Hostel were unsatisfactory. However, the new procedures governing the use of Commonwealth property, which have been introduced progressively since 1974, should ensure that no repetition of such a decision occurs. 
The Committee determined that the major reason that Wiltona has remained virtually unused for almost six years is the bureaucratic maze created by the large number of Commonwealth, State and local government authorities involved in the attempts to dispose of this public asset for some productive use. The Commonwealth Government apparently intends now to re-open Wiltona for use as a migrant hostel. As the report indicates, the Committee accepts the temporary use of Wiltona for housing refugees if there is an immediate and pressing need for hostel accommodation. However, I would like to stress that this acceptance is subject to the implementation at Wiltona of various fire safety procedures which have been recommended by the Commonwealth Fire Board. Unless and until those procedures are implemented, the Committee considers that the hostel should not be used. 1 also mention that the Melbourne Metropolitan Fire Authority regards the hostel as being unusable for accommodation at any stage, even with such procedures as the Commonwealth Fire Board suggests. 
Moreover, because of the fundamental unsuitability of the site, the Committee considers that the Commonwealth should plan the early disposal of the hostel. It therefore recommends two measures to enable this planning to commence immediately. Firstly, it recommends that the Commonwealth commence negotiations now to sell both the Wiltona Hostel and the nearby Williamstown Rifle Range, with the proviso that the Commonwealth reserve the right to use the hostel for a specific interim period. The Williamstown Rifle Range is near the Wiltona Hostel and its sale with the hostel, as a package deal, makes attractive the proposition to accept Wiltona Hostel, which otherwise might be described as something of the nature of a white elephant. Secondly, in order to overcome further delays of protracted negotiations, there should be an early meeting of the relevant Commonwealth and State Ministers, together with the Mayor of Williamstown, to negotiate the disposal of both properties and cut through the bureaucratic maze which appears to have kept this valuable asset unused for about six years. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 

 -Mr Chairman, may I take the opportunity that other honourable senators have taken to say how delighted I am that you have been elected to the position of  Chairman  of Committees. May I also take the opportunity briefly to pay a tribute to your predecessor. I have the utmost faith that you will live up to the standards that were set, and I wish you well. 
I think it is important when we are considering these matters to have regard for some of the niceties of Senate procedure and practices. I am delighted that a matter which some of us have been pursuing for years, and which is of great importance to the Senate, is coming to fruition. I refer to making the Estimates committees more effective. I can understand that  Senator Wriedt  may find it dull - 
'Boring', he interjects to say. But some others of us say that if the Parliament- in particular this chamber of the Parliament- is to be effective, it is necessary that there be reform in its procedures and in its practices. A conservative Labor Party in trying to adopt an attitude of being bored by these practices will not help the improvement which can take place if we give consideration to these important matters. I am delighted that the  President  has taken steps to seek the appointment of five full-time research assistants to enable the preparation for the Estimates committees' operation to proceed, not on a haphazard, rushed basis but on a basis which will enable research and development work to be done during the year and which will ensure that there is a continuing expertise available to assist the committee members. It is important that that should happen. 
I am delighted that the Standing Orders Committee has made this recommendation and that the  President  has taken steps to ensure that it happens. I believe that our role in this chamber involves us not only in inter-party disputes and questions of policy that arise from time to time, but also in ensuring that democracy does work. One of the things that has been happening in this country and a number of other similar countries over the years is that government has been getting bigger and more complicated, that it has been becoming all-pervasive and that it has been controlling the lives of people to a greater and greater extent. One of the checks and balances that can operate in our type of community is to have an effective upper House which ensures that the expenditure of government and of the bureaucracy is checked, which ensures that people not only can answer but do answer questions and exchange and discuss information, and which ensures that the general public can have available through  Hansard  explanations of what has been going on. Anything which is not too expensive- the appointment of five officers is certainly not too expensive- and which will ensure that the sort of role which the Senate has developed in relation to Estimates committees can be made more effective, should be welcomed. 
I well recall that after the first year of the Estimates committees the head of one of the major government departments, which still exists, said to me that the questioning by the Committee of which I was a member had created concern in that department which had led to a revision of its procedures and in those days- this was in 1970 - created a saving of $100,000 on one item alone, on one procedure alone, in one department alone. These relatively small amounts that we are considering seem very worth while when I think of the totality of government and of the effect on the whole operation of government of an effective Estimates committee system. I hope that we will ensure the Estimates committees receive full support to enable them to have not only an on-going role and a spasmodic role at the time when the appropriations or supplementary appropriations are before the Parliament but also an investigative role throughout the year. I think it is important for the honesty, integrity, efficiency and efficacy of government to feel that it is under check and scrutiny at all times. It is important that the Senate should be able to carry out that role of checking at all times. I feel that with the acceptance of the staffing arrangements proposed by the Standing Orders Committee we will be better able to do that. 
I support wholeheartedly not only the recommendation but also the statement by the  President  of the steps that he has taken. One of the things that the Government could bear in mind in relation to its staff ceilings is that five extra staff for Estimates committees could make a great contribution towards achieving staff ceilings throughout the rest of the Public Service. So much of what goes on in the Public Service can be checked, questioned and brought out into the light of day by the Estimates committees working efficiently. Without the assistance that is recommended in this section of the report it is very hard for the average senator to find the time that is necessary to gain the background information. I support the recommendation of the Standing Orders Committee. 
I would like to correct one false impression that seems to have come into the discussion. It was as a result of a recommendation of an Estimates committee, followed by a further recommendation of other Estimates committees, followed by further discussion in this chamber, that the step was taken to second from the staff of the legislative and general purpose committees a research officer to the Estimates committees for the purposes of the supplementary appropriations at the beginning of this year for a trial period to see how it worked. In a report which was tabled on the last day of sitting of the last session the chairmen of the Estimates committees expressed the view, which I think was the view of all the Estimates committees, that that secondment had worked well, was worth while and gave rise to the suggestion that this matter should be pursued further. That process of gradualism- of let us try it out, let us see whether it works, and if it works let us adopt it- having been adopted, and there having been a trial period to see whether it worked, we are now talking about adopting it. 
Nobody is suggesting that there should be a permanent secondment of officers from the legislative and general purpose committees to the Estimates committees. A trial was undertaken in a reasonable and responsible way. It having succeeded, we have now moved to the next phase, which is to make the arrangement part of the permanent operation of the Estimates committees because not only was it found to be useful and helpful to the way in which the Senate Estimates committees operate but also it was regarded as being likely to be helpful and in the best interests of the operation of the Government. I just want to correct any misunderstanding that may have arisen in relation to that. I had felt previously that there was a fairly clear consensus in this chamber that that was a trial- and a successful trial. Now we are taking it to the next stage of adopting, as we have in the past, the gradualistic trial approach to the development of our committee system. 
I would like briefly to contribute a couple of thoughts to the discussion. I totally support the Standing Orders Committee report. We are debating a proposed sessional order which would enable us to take a little further the development of the consideration of proposed legislation by using the committee system. There were two possible avenues which were discussed in some detail by the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System which reported in 1 976 after some considerable period of investigation including a subcommittee travelling overseas both to Ottawa and to Westminster to consider the ways in which committee systems were operating in those places. It reported a recommendation that the sort of system that we are discussing now should be introduced. However, because the Senate had advanced as far as it had in the development of its Legislative and General Purpose Standing Committees from 1970 onwards the Joint Committee report simply identified the two possible avenues of approaching this. They were: Firstly, that we could have the investigatory type committee- the present standing committee system- which is basically involved in investigation and report or, that we could have that committee with the added task of considering proposed legislation with the dual role of being both an investigatory committee and a legislative committee and, secondly, could separate the functions by having separate legislative committees. This is one of the matters that the Joint Committee dealt with at some length. 
I will not dwell on the actual recommendations that it made except to say, for anybody who is interested in looking further at the two possibilities, that it may be that after a trial period some of us may wish to consider another possibility. I simply draw attention to the fact that the two possibilities were canvassed in that Committee's report. I think that we can use our present investigatory committees for the legislative function, which was originally envisaged for them. I support the trial period. Let us see how it goes. If it has some bugs, let us either iron them out or try the alternative. That is no reason for saying that we should not try it. 
There is a problem in making time available for these committees to operate. I think the best thing I can do is to give an example. I will say very little else because I think we spend far too much time in this chamber in debate particularly in relation to policy matters when we could be getting on with the more effective work of committee procedures. I hope that it will not be long before the day arrives when we will do away with the second reading debates as we know them now and have them only when there is some real matter involving the Senate which requires a separate regurgitation of the second reading debate which has already taken place in the other chamber. I do not think we should be concerning ourselves as a matter of course with a regurgitation of the policy considerations which led to the introduction of the legislation. We should be concentrating far more on the detail of the legislation and on the other aspects of Senate committee work such as the investigatory committees, Estimates committees and other committees. 
I think the people want far more from Parliament than mudslinging, interchange, party stances and objection on a predetermined basis. This proposal for consideration of legislation by committees is something that could very well mean that the people will get a little more than they have been getting in the past. I was a member of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System that went to Ottawa and to Westminster in London. I was tremendously impressed in London with the fact that the Government there did not seem to be quite so precious about accepting amendments. The Government seemed to consider that debate in the committee stage was about the working of the Bill, not about the policy, that people may have some substantial contribution to make and if they had a substantial contribution to make it ought to be listened to. 
I was very pleasantly surprised to find for instance at Westminster the Government accepting on a Bill relating to children a whole lot of proposals from representatives of the Opposition in that Parliament following considered debate on ways by which the Bill could work more effectively. The Government there gave the undertaking that it would consider the points raised and would introduce a suitably drafted amendment. In other words, what the debate did was to knock into shape the thoughts about the legislation. What the Government then did was to undertake to produce a suitable amendment for the stage when the legislation went back into the chamber. 
I cannot help but think that we should do more along the lines which would make our legislation more effective. Probably we pass more legislation than we ought to pass. If that legislation can be made more effective by considered free flowing debate having taken place we will be better serving the interests of the people who sent us here. I think this is an excellent trial to undertake. Let us undertake it on a trial basis. If it has some bugs, let us iron them out. I support the proposal. 
Yes, I would support that. 
I have for many years believed that Parliament tends to be overborne by the interests of government as opposed to the interests of the Parliament. I see that as one of the offsetting factors in creating a balance. This brings me to the final point that I wanted to make in relation to this consideration. In the House of Commons there is in relation to the constitution of the legislation committees a committee of selection which considers the Bills which are proposed. I know that we are talking about a trial period but I raise this because I do not want it to be forgotten. It may be necessary for us to consider a different approach. If we do, one of the points that we would need to consider is how we will select some other form of legislation committee to ensure that all sections of this chamber get an adequate opportunity and that the debate which takes place will not be on partisan lines but in an endeavour to ensure that the policy having been determined there is a maximum input into the consideration of the detail of the legislation. This is the approach which I hope will be adopted. The policy is determined basically in the House of Representatives. If it is a matter of major importance this chamber can redebate the policy, but I hope only on a matter of major difference and major importance. When the matter gets to the legislation committee we get down to making the nuts and bolts screw up. 
I could add to that argument but I will not. I simply say: Let us make sure that we remember that there are a number of other ways to go about this. Let nobody say, if this trial does not succeed immediately, that we should wipe the whole thing. There are many considerations to be made. I think that we have done well over eight years to develop our legislative and general purpose committees to the stage to which we have developed them. Let us use the approach of gradualism. Let us not say that because we tried this and it did not work 100 per cent immediately it is not effective. We should say: Let us give it further consideration. When we are considering it let us consider such things as the committees of selection to ensure that on any matter there is adequate opportunity for those in the chamber who have a particular interest to participate. Standing Order 36aa provides:  a  Senator, though  not a member of a Standing Committee, may participate in its public sessions and question witnesses, unless the Committee orders otherwise, but shall not vote. 
Let us consider whether that is adequate to ensure-- 
Yes. But let us make sure that this gives an adequate opportunity to participate. It may be that that is where this trial will fail and that we need to consider some further protection to ensure that all interested senators have the opportunity to participate. For instance, I am not sure that the present Standing Order 36aa would enable a senator who is not a member of a legislative and general purpose committee to make suggestions for a report. We know that he cannot vote but I hope that he could at least make suggestions for what ought to be involved in the report. If he cannot, it seems to me that the system is not likely to work. If he is particularly interested, if he is prepared to attend using Standing Order 36aa and to participate and if he is then precluded from discussion there, he will come back into this chamber in the Committee of the Whole and, instead of his suggestions being considered in the committee atmosphere, they will be considered in the chamber atmosphere and we will be back to the problems that we have been trying to avoid. These are just some of the matters involved. One could talk about other problems that can arise. I think that the best thing to do is to introduce it, see how it works, see what problems arise and approach the matter in a spirit of trying to overcome the problems as they arise. 
I will develop my point a little further as some interest has been shown in it. As I said earlier, Standing Order 36aa states:  a senator, though not a member of a Standing Committee, may participate - 
I emphasise the following words-  in its public sessions and question witnesses, unless the Committee orders otherwise, but shall not vote. 
It is my belief that that means that the senator who is not a member of the committee may not be present during the private or deliberative sessions of that committee, and therefore at the time when a report is being prepared and when the discussion takes place he has no right to be present. That may not be a correct interpretation. I think it is the interpretation that has been accepted in the past in relation to that Standing Order and it may very well be one to which we need to give some further consideration. 
My view is that the clear interpretation is that a senator who is not a member of a committee is not entitled to be present when the committee is in its deliberative sessions. He is entitled to be present only when it is in its public sessions, which means in practice that a senator who is not a member of the committee cannot be present when it is discussing what is to go into the report. 
That is my understanding. I have had assistance to rule that way at various times in committees of which I have been chairman. I raise the point gently because I think it is one to which we ought to give some thought. I raise it not in order to hold up this matter tonight but as a reason for not forgetting the point in the trial period and, if necessary, coming out of the trial period with a recommendation that something be done about changing this provision. 
In response to  Senator Harradine  's invitation, my comment is that basically I agree with him but I do not want to do anything which would hold up the introduction of these proposals tonight by debating something which could be corrected later. What we are dealing with is a proposal which will have effect for the remainder of this year only. It is to apply specifically only during 1978.1 am prepared to accept the situation in which we simply acknowledge that there may be some bugs. Let us not interfere with the proposal which has come from the Standing Orders Committee. We have put on record tonight the view that there may be better ways of going about it. Next year when we review how it operated during this session we will be able to ask: 'Do we need to make it as  Senator Harradine  suggested it might be- in other words, using the words which apply in relation to Estimates committees- or should we broaden it even further?' It may be that there is a whole range of different possibilities to consider. 
There are a number of possibilities. I simply suggest that we adopt what the Standing Orders Committee has recommended, whilst recognising that the proposal will have effect for a trial period until the end of this year only. We will see what happens and then determine how we need to approach it next year. The final point I make is that there is an ultimate safeguard in that whatever goes wrong in relation to the committee procedure can be corrected in this chamber. So nobody will be totally defeated. It is not as though it is essential that we correct a potential defect now, because everybody has the right to speak when the matter comes back before this chamber. So my reaction to  Senator Harradine  's suggestion is that whilst I am inclined towards it I suggest that we leave it as it is, accept the recommendation, and bear in mind what he says when we discuss it after the end of the trial period. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce. I ask: Is it a fact that the tourist industry is a major growth area in the provision of new employment opportunities? Is it also a fact that the Government has recognised the importance of this industry by a major increase in the Budget provision of funds for the Australian Tourist Commission- an increase of nearly 40 per cent in the amount provided? 
I present the report from the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations on its inquiry into the Australian Housing Corporation Annual Report 1974-75. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to move a motion that the Senate take note of the report. 
Leave granted. 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
On 7 June 1978 the Senate, at my request, referred the Australian Housing Corporation Annual Report 1974-75 to the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations for investigation and report. As Chairman of the 
Committee, I was concerned to ascertain why the report was not presented to the Parliament until almost three years after the close of the 1974-75 financial year, the year to which the report related. The Australian Housing Corporation Annual Report 1974-75 is solely concerned with the activities of the Defence Service Homes Scheme in that year. Consequently, the Committee approached the body currently responsible for administering the scheme, the Defence Service Homes Corporation, to seek the reasons for the delay. The Corporation provided a written explanation, and the Committee held informal discussions with Corporation officers. 
The reasons for the delay are complex and are set out in the Committee's report. Therefore, I do not intend to repeat them in detail today. In summary, there were two major problems. Firstly, the Defence Service Homes Scheme had to operate under two different accounting standards in 1974-75 because the Australian Housing Corporation Act was enacted one week before the end of that year. This made reconciliation of the accounts for reporting purposes extremely difficult. Secondly, the form of the accounts was not approved by the Department of Finance until March 1978. The Committee concludes in its report that if it is necessary to change the accounting system of Government organisations, then the change should, wherever possible, be implemented from the start of a new financial year. This practice would prevent the recurrence of some of the problems which occurred with the Defence Service Homes Scheme in 1 974-75. 
In addition, the Committee concludes that an important matter of principle arose in the context of the inquiry, in relation to the way in which government authorities should report to the Parliament. The reporting requirements in the Act under which the Defence Service Homes Scheme operates provides that the Minister present the report and financial statements in an approved form, together with the Auditor-General's report, within 15 sitting days of their receipt. Consequently, the responsible Ministers did not breach the letter of the law in not reporting on the scheme to the Parliament between October 1975 and June 1978. However, the Committee considers that the spirit of the law, which is surely that Parliament be kept informed on at least an annual basis, has been breached. For almost three years the Parliament was kept in ignorance of the operations of this important statutory corporation. 
The Committee therefore considers that the reporting requirements of the current legislation are inadequate and that a new section should be added to the Act. This section should provide that if a report, with accounts in a form approved by the Department of Finance, and /or the Auditor-General's report, is not ready for presentation to the Parliament within nine months of the end of the previous financial year, then the Minister should, within 15 sitting days, present an interim report to the Parliament on the Corporation's activities, together with informal financial statements and an explanation for the unavailability of the audited accounts. The obligation to submit formal audited reports later, but as soon as possible, would remain.The Committee believes that parliamentary democracy requires that Ministers, as the representatives of the Executive branch of Government, keep both the Parliament and the people informed of the activities of departments and statutory authorities, rather then permit bureaucratic differences to provide an excuse for keeping those activities hidden from scrutiny. If the above provision were introduced, Parliament would be kept informed on a regular basis of the activities of the Corporation. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 

 -Mr President, I present the report from the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations on its inquiry into the 'Expenditure on the Hire of Pot Plants by the Commonwealth Public Service '. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 - Mr President, I seek leave to move a motion that the Senate take note of the report. 
Leave granted. 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
As the report itself is short and self-explanatory, my remarks on it will be brief. Following a recommendation by Estimates Committee E in October 1977, this matter was referred on 28 February 1978 to the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations by the Senate for investigation and report. The Committee obtained from each Commonwealth department information on the cost incurred in the hire of pot plants, and on the reasons for the decision to hire them. 
The amount expended by each department is set out in the report. The total cost for all departments in 1977-78 was approximately $408,000. Although the average amount spent per department was approximately $14,000 the range of expenditure was wide- from a low of approximately $500 for the Department of the Northern Territory to a high of approximately $60,000 for the Department of Taxation. Perhaps that Department needs more relief that can be provided by pot plants,  Mr President. 
The reasons given by departments for their decisions to hire pot plants are also set out in the report. Therefore I will not elaborate on them now except to say that the Committee considers the reasons acceptable at the present time, subject to a qualification which is set out in the report. That is a qualification which has been expressed by the Department of Construction whose comments and recommendations are an annexure to the report. The Department says in its report: 
This concept is a management tool and if chosen simply for prestige reasons, or if used without understanding, will be a bad, ineffective, and can be expensive, exercise. 
With that qualification, the Committee reports to the Senate that it believes the reasons given at the moment to be acceptable reasons.  Mr President,  I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. Bearing in mind the fact that Canberra is at present held virtually incommunicado by telephone as a result of the operations of the new Luddites, I am almost tempted, as we are on the air, to take the opportunity to send a cheerio. I will refrain from doing that and ask a question. Can the Minister indicate the general state of progress with regard to the Maritime College, particularly in relation to progress on the appointment of the permanent council and the purchase of the proposed training ship,  Wyuna? 
I ask for leave to withdraw the motion standing in my name. It relates to the organisation of the Estimates committees and the staffing of them. I gave notice on 23 February 1978 consequent upon a report of the Senate Estimates Committee presented on 13 October 1977. The Senate Standing Orders Committee with perspicacity took up the matter prior to its being debated by the Senate. In fact, it has dealt with the subject matter of my notice of motion and steps are under way to implement the things which were being sought in my notice of motion. My notice of motion has been overtaken by events and I am delighted to be in the position to withdraw the notice of motion. 
Motion- by leave- withdrawn. 
This morning a statement was made by the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Wriedt,  under privilege which made an attack upon a person who is not a member of this chamber and who is not in a position to reply in this chamber to the attack which was made. I sought leave to move a motion to take note of the report so that the matter could be further raised if a reply was sought to be made. Leave was refused. I take the opportunity to read to the Senate a reply on behalf of the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  of the House of Representatives who was the subject matter of the statement made by the Leader of the Opposition this morning. I do not propose to comment in relation to the matter but rather simply, in what I would regard as a matter of fairness, to give the honourable member the opportunity to have on record what he says in reply to what was said about him this morning. This is a statement by the honourable member for Denison,  Mr Michael  Hodgman, and it states: 
I am somewhat surprised by  Senator Wriedt  's incredible outburst in the Senate this morning. The fact of the matter is that whether he likes it or not,  Senator Wriedt  spoke one way in the meeting and then actually voted the other way and was seen to do so by everybody present in the Polish Hall. There would be no difficulty in producing literally scores- or indeed hundreds- of witnesses to support this fact. Those on the stage with  Senator Wriedt  included myself,  Mrs KrollSimmul, Senator Brian  Harradine and the independent  Chairman,  the  Hon.  Ken Lowrie, M.L.C. 
The motion which was carried reads: 
This meeting declares that the systematic suspension of basic human rights by the Communist Regime in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe is an offense against the whole of humanity. This meeting therefore calls on all Australians to boycott the Olympic Games due in Moscow in 1980 and work for a change in venue. We urge the organising committee to make contact with others throughout Tasmania and the rest of Australia and campaign on the slogan 'No Moscow Games Without Human Rights'. 

 Mr Hodgman's statement continues: 
I heard what  Mrs Kroll-Simmul  said on radio this morning- as far as I am concerned it was factually correct in every detail. Many of us in Tasmania have been worried about  Senator Wriedt  for some time- we feel he needs a rest.  His  unbelievable and totally unwarranted attack on  Mr Bruce  Goodluck, MHR over the sale of the ferry pontoons; his recent incredible predictions about alleged alterations to the Family Allowance Scheme, and now the fact that within four days he has apparently forgotten how he voted on motions at a mass public meeting in Hobart, all give cause for grave concern. 
That statement I have read on behalf of an honourable member in another place who was the subject of a comment which was made this morning. 
Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware that  Mr van  Lennep, the 
Secretary-General of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, in an address last week to the Council of Europe expressed cautious optimism that the world is recovering from the recession which has been experienced now for several years? Does the Minister agree with this assessment? Is it also a fact that the OECD has supported strongly the underlying Budget strategy applied in Australia and that control of inflation is a condition precedent to overcoming the unemployment problems being experienced in almost all the countries which are members of the OECD? 
-We are discussing the question of the introduction by a Liberal-National Country Party government of a provision in relation to accumulated annual leave and the taxation applicable which some people believe will be retrospective in its operation. The Liberal Party's platform- as was made evident during a debate on, I think, the last income tax amendment Bill that was before this chamber- states that it is contrary to Liberal Party policy that there should be any retrospective tax amendments. That is a view to which I adhere strongly. When that previous matter was before this chamber I moved an amendment to eliminate the aspect of retrospectivity. If I believe that there are clear elements of retrospectivity in future amendments to income tax law I will do the same. In this case I do not agree with those who claim that this measure is retrospective within the proper definition of what is retrospective tax legislation. It may well be, as some have described it, unfair. It may be politically unwise. I think that both of those terms could well apply to this action. I express a considerable sympathy for people such as those about whom  Senator Elstob  has just been talking. I do not think that it is the Senate's function to take over totally the role of government and to substitute its own judgment of what is politically wise. 
I knew that  Senator McLaren  could not possibly resist. I deliberately waited to give him time to come in. May I say: Come in spinner.  Senator McLaren  can never resist. If I may continue without being diverted to other things, I do not believe that it is proper for a House of review to be substituting its political judgment in cases such as this. It can be that it is appropriate in exceptional cases but if we were to vote against everything which we did not like in particular proposals we would probably find an extraordinary situation. I think the review function does not extend that far, but I do think that we ought to be considering, because of the nature of this debate, another question which was adverted to earlier this year, which requires further consideration and about which this chamber can do something. That is the question of whether a referendum proposal should be put to the people of Australia to amend the Constitution to provide, as happens in the United States of America, that there shall be no retrospectivity in any law which imposes a penalty. I believe that such a referendum is called for. I am frightened by the Australian Labor Party's policy, which has been declared in this chamber, of backdating to 1 July of the preceding year all taxation legislation correcting a loophole. I am frightened by what appears to be a growing practice within the present Government of being near the borderline, if not over the borderline, in relation to retrospectivity. I hope at some appropriate time that we can give further consideration to the question of a constitutional amendment. I think this proposal might be far more worth while than some of the questions that have been put up in recent years. 
I do not believe this measure is retrospective. The right to which we are referring is a right to annual leave; it is not an absolute right to a payment of money. There has been no payment of money. What happens is that at a period of time after a person for one reason or another has not taken his annual leave, there is the possibility that he can receive a payment. The payments are to be taxed only as from 15 August of this year. I can understand honourable senators, particularly  Senator Townley,  expressing concern for people who have planned their lives on the basis of having a reasonable expectation of receiving an annual leave payment which will be taxed at 5 per cent. People who did not take their leave entitlements because they wished to convert them into cash will be unfairly treated by this proposal. It is not retrospective tax legislation. The tax is imposed in a way which is rather similar to that in contracts where excise duties, for instance, apply. Changes in excise duties or other similar revenue laws affect contracts which already have been made between people. These are not regarded as being retrospective taxation measures. 
I refer now to an interesting matter that was raised twice by  Senator Evans.  In a number of industries, particularly the large construction industries, it has become the accepted practice that people do not take leave but accumulate it and expect to be relieved of some portion at the end of the period by having to pay only five per cent tax. He said that that was part of the inducement for people to work through their annual leave and so more quickly complete large construction jobs and so on. I do not see that as being a reason for opposing this measure. Probably the appropriate thing is that the general body of taxpayers should not have to pay that amount. That really is what is happening. 
Well, the particular project ought to bear the proper costs. It does not matter whether the funds come from private enterprise or from public sources. There is no reason why the taxpayers should have to bear these costs in the roundabout way that they have in the past. I do not think that that is a justifiable argument. I express sympathy for the people who have been adversely affected. I join with others who have asked the Government to be a lot more considerate on future occasions about such matters and to even reconsider this proposal. I do not propose to vote in support of  Senator Townley's  amendment. I do not believe that this proposal is retrospective. Therefore I do not think it is a proper function for the Committee to override the Government's decision however unwise that decision may be. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note ofthe paper. 
I have moved this motion in my capacity as Chairman of the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations whose report in relation to the Wiltona Hostel was presented to the Senate earlier this year. In referring to the statement very briefly, I indicate that the Committee, I am sure, would be quite happy to note that the fire precautions which were considered to be necessary before there was any occupation ofthe Wiltona Hostel have been taken. 
The Committee has a continuing interest in the latter part of the statement which relates to the future of the Wiltona Hostel, the arrangements for its sale. With a view to ensuring that the matter can be further discussed at a later stage, I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I present the following petition from 3,385 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the 3,372 undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That it is urgent for the Commonwealth Government to take the initiative of lifting all forms of sanctions imposed against Rhodesia and to cease preparation of any legislation to close the Rhodesia Information Centre in Sydney. 
As Rhodesia now has an interim government which will lead the country to majority rule and as Rhodesia is fighting a war against communist terrorism your petitioners strongly urge that sanctions be lifted: 
. To assist in providing more employment and education for Africans by allowing normal growth and expansion of industries. 
To assist in the defence of Rhodesia against threatened disruption by communist terrorists so that an orderly and peaceful general election may take place. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I am not sure whether my question which is addressed to the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs can bring forth as interesting an answer as the last one. My question is asked further to the presentation today of a petition signed by nearly 3,500 Australians. Now that an internal settlement has been achieved in Rhodesia, all elements of apartheid eliminated and arrangements made for full elections, does this not mean that the people of Rhodesia should be permitted to pursue this act of selfdetermination free from the economic sanctions imposed by the United Nations? Will the Australian Government seek to have the United Nations withdraw those sanctions to permit the continued economic and social development of the people of Rhodesia irrespective of thencolour? 
My question is also directed to the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is he aware that the continent of Africa is suffering from what could be described only as a massive invasion by Cuban armed forces? Is it a fact that the Cuban forces are supplied with and maintained by Russian weapons and funds? Is it also a fact that the placement of Cuban troops includes some 23,000 troops in Angola, some 12,000 troops in Ethiopia, some 6,000 troops together with some Russian troops in Aden, and altogether, many thousand troops in the following countries: Guinea, Libya, Mozambique, Uganda, the Malagasy Republic, the Congo, Sierra Leone, Tanzania and Zambia? Those figures are taken from a document which was prepared for and totally accepted by the Council of Europe. Is it a fact that these troops are, at least in some cases, propping up dictatorships and corrupt minority regimes? Can the Minister explain whether Australia has taken steps in the United Nations or elsewhere to try to force the withdrawal of these troops to enable African nations to develop free from outside domination and through appropriate self-determination? 
Somewhat reluctantly, I join in this discussion because I feel that there are some aspects of it on which it might be appropriate to make a comment- not about the merits or otherwise of the particular provision so much as about the matters that seem to have come into the discussion of the provision. Before I refer to that and because of the attack that was made, I think unfairly, on my colleague from Tasmania,  Senator Townley,  when it was suggested that there was certainly no prospect of his being on the ticket next time round, I suggest that anybody who thinks that may have cause to reconsider because, after all, he has demonstrated in a way that not many people have been able to demonstrate that he can get here whether or not he is endorsed by a party. He has done it twice. 
Obviously my friend  Senator Wriedt  makes that comment because he has some reason to feel quite strongly about the matter in view of publicity which has been put out about him recently and, I would have thought, rather falsely. 
I am expanding it to include both parties. I do not expect  Senator Townley  to be left off the Liberal Party ticket any more than 1 expect  Senator Wriedt  to be in any position other than No. 1 for the Labor Party. 

 Senator Chipp referred to what he said ought to happen in relation to this legislation. He referred to the Senate's role, the role of individual senators and the freedom which is enjoyed and has been demonstrated by members of the Liberal Party in this chamber but which is not available to members of the Opposition. I think that there is another freedom, right or responsibility which has been left out of the discussion. That is the right of the Senate as a House of review to participate in the consideration and review of a Budget. I think that there are real problems which have existed since 1 975 in the public mind as to the Senate's proper role in relation to Supply. I think that there were very real problems which existed in the minds of many of the members of this chamber in the period leading up to November 1975. 1 do not think that we can just blandly throw around the idea that everybody should just rewrite the Budget in this chamber, because a Budget is not only an expenditure document but also a revenue document. It is not simply a single provision which can be considered in isolation. When one starts advocating in this chamber that we just cut out what we want to cut out or increase what we want to increase in this way or that, I think that has to be viewed in the context of the responsibility of the elected government- a responsibility which it must carry- to prepare a Budget which can be rejected and on which the people have a chance to vote or which is otherwise relatively unalterable by this chamber, whatever this chamber may think about it. 
This is something which has been referred to the Consitutional Convention and in particular to Standing Committee D of that Convention. It has been the subject matter of discussion at two conventions now in considerable detail, including a full day's discussion at the last convention in Perth. It has been referred back to Standing Committee D for further consideration. I hope that some rational, reasonable and responsible consideration will take place- not the party line attitude of 'you did, you did not', the childish stuff which comes from one or two people and which I do not think enhances the debate at all. I am concerned that we should try to work out what we can do because it worries me that we cannot have some real input into the Budget. I think that there are times in the life of every government when perhaps not all wisdom is demonstrated in the decisions taken by the group which comprises the senior executive of the party that is in government; and that the democratic process involves some opportunity for input by all the elected people who constitute the total Parliament. I am concerned that the present situation does not give this House an adequate opportunity for input in the budgetary process. But what I do not see as the answer is the ad hoc rewriting of the Budget on the basis which has been suggested in the chamber today. It is my view that this is a serious matter for further consideration and for further development in the interests of the smooth, effective and efficient workings of a parliamentary democracy. I have indicated previously in relation to a taxation matter that, irrespective of what my view may be, I do not propose to try to engage in the rewriting of the Budget at this stage. 
The Senate is discussing a matter of public importance submitted by the Australian Labor Party which reads: 
The disruption caused to the national broadcasting services by the Government's attacks on starring and standards within the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
This amounts to an attack by the Opposition on the Australian Broadcasting Commission's current performance. What it is saying is that the ABC has been disrupted to the extent that its standards and performance have fallen. I do not believe that that is borne out by anything that has been said by  Senator Ryan  or  Senator Button  or from a proper perusal of the evidence given to Estimates Committee F when the estimates for the Australian Broadcasting Commission were being considered. 
I think it is important to look at this matter in its proper context. Why is the ABC receiving less money than it may wish to receive and which many of us may wish to see it receive. It is related to the question of inflation and the economic policy ofthe Government in overcoming inflation. It is related to a problem which involves us all throughout the whole community, that is what can be done to ensure that an economic policy can be pursued which will reduce inflation to a level which is manageable so that the economy can be brought out of the period of recession which world economies have experienced and into a position of growth whereby growth in the ABC and various other areas will then be able to take place. I note that the Australian Broadcasting Commission entirely accepts the position. In this year's annual report it stated: 
In common with other statutory bodies and departments of Government, the ABC has been required to economise throughout the year and, by effecting savings elsewhere, to absorb increases in the cost of goods and services. This has been done to conform with the Government's anti-inflation policies. The economies effected have brought some measure of discomfort to the organisation but this, we believe, has not been apparent to our audience. 
There is the denial by the ABC in its report for the current year of what the Opposition is claiming this afternoon by way of an attack on its performance. The report continues: 
The Commission's objective throughout the year has been to maintain the quality and diversity of its program output. 
I believe that it has done this admirably. It is to be congratulated for what it has achieved. It is important to understand that the Government's policy is not an attack on the ABC but an attack on inflation. The ABC along with many other statutory authorities, government departments and various other sectors of the economy, has been asked or required to play a part in achieving a result. To show that this is not something peculiar to Australia I will quote from a recent speech by  Mr van  Lennep, the SecretaryGeneral of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, on 3 October, a few days ago, when he spoke to the Council of Europe in Strasbourg. He said: 
The strategy that the OECD countries have been following over the last three years has been based on the premise that, except over the very short run, higher employment cannot be bought at the cost of accelerating inflation. It was recognised that this meant that we should seek to achieve a moderate but sustained expansion of demand in the OECD area as a whole, strong enough to permit a progressive reduction in unemployment, but not so strong as to rekindle inflation. It was also recognised that the position of individual countries varied considerably, and that if we were to succeed in steering the OECD economy along this so-called 'narrow path' some countries would need to concentrate primarily on bringing inflation under control, while others would carry a particular responsibility for maintaining the momentum of the recovery. 
I think it is relevant to point out that at a recent meeting of the OECD it was accepted that Australia was still one of the countries which fell into the category of having to concentrate at this stage on bringing inflation under control and that nine other member countries of the OECD were recognised as being in a position to play a more expansionary role in bringing the world economy into better shape. It is not a matter of the Government acting in a way which can be said to be out of kilter with what is expected by those who are managing the economies of the major part of the developed world. From what  Mr van  Lennep said it is clear that the OECD entirely endorses the policy which has been adopted by this Government in endeavouring to achieve, first of all, the control of inflation and, when that has been achieved, growth. 
It is quite strange that the Australian Labor Party is almost alone amongst the socialist parties of the democratic world in believing that what we should be doing is continuing the same sort of situation which it created in 1973, 1974 and 1975. It is quite extraordinary that members of the Labor Party cannot recognise what was made quite clear by the  President  of the Federal Republic of Germany when he spoke in Parliament House yesterday. He made it clear that the German socialist Government believes that it is important, firstly, to overcome inflation and then to bring about the growth necessary to overcome the recession. It seems that the Australian Labor Party has been too cut off from the thinking of the rest of the world and has never got out of the situation into which it got itself with a wave of enthusiasm when in 1972 it took over government. It has never learnt the reality of the lessons. If it wants us to spend a lot more money on the ABC and in various other areas of government expenditure it has to recognise that the deficit will go up, income tax rates will have to go up, growth will be likely to be adversely affected and the rate of reduction of inflation will be adversely affected. 
It is unfortunate that the Labor Party is not paying attention to some of the much more important things which concern the ABC and a number of other areas of our total community. These include the impact of technological change and the restructuring of our economy and our economic activities. The role of the ABC is to make people aware of the existence of the problems and the importance of giving consideration to them, encouraging debate on them and generally encouraging the review and assessment of what we are going to do as a world, as developed nations and within Australia in relation to these problems. It would have been much better if the Labor Party had used the time being taken up by the debate on this matter of public importance to discuss some of the real issues and not to raise on a party political basis a matter which the ABC itself denies. 
I believe that we should look at the reality of the Australian Broadcasting Commission's situation., The impression was given that the Government would continue to reduce the staff ceilings in relation to the ABC. The truth is the very opposite. The ABC has requested a review upwards. The Government has agreed to that review being undertaken and it is being undertaken at the moment. I understand from further information which has just been supplied that the Public Service Board is fully appraised of the information necessary. One hopefully anticipates that the review will reveal that there are some areas, even within the current economic policy in which improvements can be made in relation to staff ceilings. Staff ceilings have created what was described to Estimates Committee F as a serious management problem but not a disruptive problem. It has simply meant that management has had to determine what it can do to bring about the provision of services, as was said in the annual report, on a basis which maintained the quality and diversity of its program output. In the report, which I think was tabled yesterday, the ABC claims that it has achieved that. 
Large scale dismissals have not taken place. In fact, as I understand it, there has been a staff reduction through natural wastage and not through dismissals. Another matter that I think is confusing is that  Senator Ryan  tended to pick out from the  Hansard  of the Estimates Committee a whole lot of the various possibilities and options to which the officers of the ABC referred when they were giving evidence. Quite clearly, not all of those options will apply. They are alternative options. Some of them may apply; some of them may not apply. To the best of my belief, the ABC is in good shape even though tough decisions have had to be taken; decisions which were taken on a value judgment basis and probably the ABC would have preferred not to have to take them. But along with everybody else in the community it has had to take those sorts of decisions. 
As far as standards are concerned, obviously, to some extent, they can be a function of expenditure. For instance, as I understand it, research for such programs as  AM  and  PM  has had to be reduced. I think most of us would have to agree that  AM  and  PM  are still most worthwhile programs; they are programs which I think add considerably to the discussion of public issues in Australia. Even if there has been some curtailment in that area, nevertheless they are highly successful. Australian content has been reduced by about 2 per cent. It has been substituted by the need to take some British Broadcasting Corporation transcription programs. I think we can all agree that the BBC, like the ABC, over the years has achieved a very high standard. The sorts of programs which are being used by the ABC and taken from the BBC are most worthwhile. They add to the general knowledge and culture of people of this country. I do not think that is a matter for criticism. 
I would like to sum up my contribution to this debate by saying that it is acknowledged that the ABC, any more than anybody else in the community, has not had it easy over the past two or three years while this attempt to bring the economy back under control and get it going in the right direction has been taking place. It cannot be said that the ABC is in disarray; it cannot be said that the ABC is not any longer giving to the Australian people an extremely worthwhile diversity of programs, on both television and radio. I would like to support strongly the concept which probably underlies what  Senator Ryan  said, that is, that the ABC is important to Australia. The ABC should continue and should develop. I look forward to the day, which is coming, of the obvious success of the Government 's economic policies in overcoming inflation and getting growth going again in accordance with the general concept that has been agreed to by all the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development countries- not just this Government; not just Australia; but all the 
OECD countries. When these policies are successful in Australia as they are being successful in other countries, I believe that we will see the growth and development of the ABC taking place again at the rate and along the lines that all of us would agree is desirable. 
I bring up the report of Estimates Committee B on the particulars of proposed expenditure for the year 1978-79, together with the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
In so moving I wish to make a very brief statement with application to one part of the report. I refer to the part of the report on page 4 which refers to certain payments made to the State of Queensland in respect of unemployment relief commencing as from 23 February 1 977 in relation to which there was a request for an audited statement that the expenditure was undertaken in accordance with the conditions under which the grants were made. No such statement has been received. The Committee states that in the absence of an acceptable explanation the Senate may wish to consider its attitude towards the approval of any further funds for the State of Queensland under this item. 
I  give notice that contingent upon the Senate agreeing to the motion moved by  Senator Ryan  for the disallowance of the Australian Capital Territory Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance 1978I shall move: 
That the resolution of the Senate of 9 November 1978 disallowing the Australian Capital Territory Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance 1978 be rescinded to provide the Government with the opportunity to make a new ordinance containing a provision the same in substance as the provision so disallowed relating to the treatment for the termination of a pregnancy otherwise than at a hospital conducted by the Capital Territory Health Commission. 
by leave- I table additional information received by Estimates Committee B and seek leave for it to be incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
-When I spoke to  Senator Evans's  amendment, I foreshadowed that in the event that his amendment was defeated I would move another amendment to  Senator Ryan  's motion. I propose to do so. My amendment is to add to the end of her motion which is a motion for disallowance, what amounts to an explanation and an expression of opinion so that it is a little clearer on what the Senate really is voting than would be the case arising out of a somewhat confused debate. I suggest that this may clarify it. I move: 
At the end of motion, add 
in order that an Ordinance may be made prohibiting the establishment of private abortion clinics in the ACT; and 
the Senate is of the opinion that this disallowance should take place in order that the Senate have an opportunity to have its views in relation to (i) the question of abortion in the ACT and (ii) the relevance of the opinion expressed by the ACT Legislative Assembly, considered before a final Ordinance is made and in order to ensure the matter is further considered by the Executive Government of the Commonwealth in the light of the debate which has taken place in this Chamber; and further the Senate is of the opinion that a motion rescinding the disallowance should be carried as soon as possible to enable a new Ordinance to be introduced forthwith in accordance with the provisions of section 12 (7) (a) of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act. 
I have already explained to the chamber my purpose in moving this amendment. It is an effort to record a little clearer what honourable senators are expressing in voting for or against  Senator Ryan's  motion. 
I present the following petition from 490 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth:- 
That the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance (No. 1 6 of 1978) has the effect of prohibiting the operation of private abortion clinics in the ACT. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Senators should vote to:- 
1 ) retain this Ordinance, and 
) reject any move to disallow this Ordinance since its disallowance would enable private abortion clinics to operate in the ACT. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
ACT Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth:- 
That the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance (No. 16 of 1978) has the effect of prohibiting the operation of private abortion clinics in the ACT. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Senators should vote to:- 
1 ) retain this Ordinance, and 
2 ) reject any move to disallow this Ordinance since its disallowance would enable private abortion clinics to operate in the ACT. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Bearing in mind the fact that Rhodesia has now done everything which the United Nations required of it, will the Australian Government urge the United Nations, firstly, to recognise the major steps taken as a result of the internal settlement of 3 March this year; secondly, to condemn the use of terrorism by the external guerrilla forces; thirdly, to congratulate the transitional government, which has a majority of black leaders, for the steps taken for the abolition of racial discrimination and for free elections; and, fourthly, in the light of these steps, to abolish sanctions immediately and, encourage the achievement of the act of selfdetermination? 
I have waited some time to enter this debate because I wish to speak only at this stage to  Senator Evans's  amendment, which seems to highlight the problem which we face in this chamber tonight. What is the issue that we are debating? Is it a question of the process of government? Is it a question of the right of the people of the Australian Capital Territory to self-government? Is it a question of abortion in the Capital Territory? Is it a question of the Senate powers vis-a-vis the Executive? Is it a combination of all questions? I think one other matter is of importance. I refer to the credibility and the integrity of this chamber as part of the Commonwealth Parliament. I believe that if we are to vote on a confused basis because we are in favour of home rule or against it, in favour of abortion or against it, in favour of free standing private abortion clinics or against them or a combination of any of the other things, without having some clarification of the issues we are voting about, I think this chamber could be validly held up to public ridicule. 
I believe that it is essential that we clarify what is the issue on which we are voting. Therefore I was interested to read  Senator Evans's  amendment. In order to remind honourable senators of its wording I shall read it. It commences: 
Al end of motion, add: 
in order that an Ordinance may be made prohibiting the establishment of private abortion clinics in the ACT;  1 pause there to say that I know of only one honourable senator who has expressed a view in favour of private abortion clinics. I think that is still the situation. Therefore I imagine that there is a general acceptance within this chamber of the view that there should be an ordinance prohibiting private abortion clinics in the Australian Capital Territory. Certainly that accords with the view which was expressed by the Legislative Assembly of the Territory. Paragraph (b) of  Senator Evans's  amendment reads:  to enable the Government to take such other administrative and legislative steps as are necessary to implement the recommendations of the ACT Legislative Assembly Standing Committee on Education and Health in its Report No. 26 entitled ' Pregnancy Termination '. 
That is a matter far from agreed around this chamber. Some of the speakers say that that is an important part of the reason for disallowance. Others say that they do not agree with all the recommendations. Others say that they agree with some. A general difference appears to exist on that. Whilst I commend  Senator Evans  for his endeavour to clarify the issue we are discussing, I believe that an amendment which I have foreshadowed would better clarify and identify the issue on which honourable senators will vote. If  Senator Evans's  amendment is not agreed to I will move an amendment to  Senator Ryan's  motion. The foreshadowed amendment reads: 
At end of motion, add: 
in order that an Ordinance may be made prohibiting the establishment of private abortion clinics in the ACT; and 
the Senate is of the opinion that this disallowance should take place in order that the Senate have an opportunity to have its views in relation to (i) the question of abortion in the ACT and (ii) the relevance of the opinion expressed by the ACT Legislative Assembly, considered before a final Ordinance is made and in order to ensure the matter is further considered by the Executive Government of the Commonwealth in the light of the debate which has taken place in this Chamber; and further 
the Senate is or the opinion that a motion rescinding the disallowance should be carried as soon as possible to enable a new Ordinance to be introduced forthwith in accordance with the provisions of section 12 (7) (a) of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act. 
If  Senator Evans's  amendment is defeated I propose to move that amendment so that we can vote and identify some of the things that seem to be at issue. This is a way in which we can clarify what the Senate is attempting to achieve from this debate instead of leaving us open to the suggestion that we are voting for a confused and wide cross-section of reasons none of which bring together a real consensus amongst those voting either for or against the motion. I hope that what I have outlined is germane to the arguments which have been put by probably a majority of the speakers, certainly by a significant number. I believe that a vote on my amendment would help to clarify the matter and help this chamber appear to be a little less confused than it was at the end of the one hour tirade from  Senator Harradine,  which did not advance the proposition one iota.  His  laugh just now when I talked about endeavouring to clarify the issues also did nothing to advance the proposition either. He muddied the waters for an hour with some statements with which we would all agree, with some statements with which we might agree if we did not know the truth and other statements which were impossible to understand. 
I do not propose to waste the time of the Senate for an hour answering some of the stuff  Senator Harradine  went on with. 

 - Senator Harradine wishes to issue a challenge. Any challenges issued should be taken up outside this chamber and not during the Senate's time. Let  Senator Harradine  issue the challenge outside. Anything for a bit of cheap publicity appears to be  Senator Harradine  's endeavour. Maybe he will get some.  Senator Harradine  apparently believes that he would have a lot of fun showing that I have a particular view about abortion. I have not expressed a view about abortion. 
It would have been interesting if we had been debating simply the issue of abortion law, but that is not what we have been doing. This debate has been under constraint because of the provisions of section 12 of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act which provides a rather funny way for dealing with what is a funny form of legislation. Ordinances are a rather odd form of legislation which are made by the Executive, subject to disallowance by either House. Either House is entitled to do certain things in relation to an ordinance. The debate about an ordinance takes place when a motion is moved to disallow an ordinance. When a motion to disallow an ordinance is moved one or two courses can be taken. The Parliament can disallow the ordinance and say to the Government that introduced the ordinance: 'We do not want to hear anything about this or something similar to it for another six months at least ' or ' We will disallow this ordinance so that you can think about what we have said and introduce something else straight away'. I would have thought that the second course is the obvious desire of those who would wish to see the current Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance disallowed. 
For some people to adopt the attitude that by disallowing an ordinance the Senate is doing something extraordinary I think is to be unreal in the light of the history of the Senate Regulation and Ordinances Committee reports, which are adopted almost invariably. Such a stance is unreal in relation to the means by which the House of Parliament in the democratic process have an opportunity to debate what is a law. Because an ordinance is introduced and may then be disallowed as opposed to a Bill being introduced and debated a different procedure applies. It is only the matter of this chamber wishing to debate, wishing to have its views expressed and wishing to have those views considered that we are talking about. So far as I am concerned, it is no more than a matter of ensuring that before a final conclusion is reached and the law becomes final it is debated and the views expressed are taken into account. Therefore I do not believe that the Government is covered in credit when it says: 'Notwithstanding anything that you may say in debate we, the members of the Cabinet who discussed the matter, have made up our minds and we regard ourselves as infallible and unable to be aided in any way at all by anything that may be said in this debate '. The parliamentary process requires that there be an opportunity for debate and for consideration of the views which can be put forward to contribute to achieving the best result. As I said. I do not wish to debate the issue of home rule or the issue of abortion. I do not wish at this stage to do more than comment in relation to  Senator Evan's  amendment and to say that I do not believe that it clarifies the matter in a way that would enable a majority of honourable senators to vote. I think that the one that I have outlined probably better covers the majority of views which have been expressed. Therefore, I foreshadow that I shall be moving that amendment in the event that  Senator Evan's  amendment is not accepted by this chamber. 
by leave- I table the additional information received by Estimates Committee B and seek leave for it to be incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
-I draw some aspects of the report of Estimates Committee B to the attention of the Committee. I draw the attention of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  to page 2 of that report where, in relation to the Department of National Development, the Committee refers to the effect of staff ceilings where government undertakings are fulfilling a commercial role. The Committee was particularly concerned with the situation at the Australian Atomic Energy Commission where radio isotope production, which is a commercial undertaking of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, and potential sales are being hampered as a result of the operation of staff ceilings. In its report, the Committee also referred to the report of Senate Estimates Committee E in May of this year which drew attention to the same problem in relation to the Small Arms Factory at Lithgow. It is my recollection that this factory was unable to engage an extra 100 employees in an area where there was unemployment. These employees could have been gainfully used for the purpose of production for sales which could have been obtained overseas. It seems to me that there is a good case for the Government giving thought to changing the system to ensure that where a commercial undertaking is being operated by a government agency it should be able to put on such staff as are necessary to fulfil the commercial role. I ask the Minister, as this is something which has been commented upon on a couple of occasions, whether the Government has taken the matter any further and whether the Minister can give the chamber any indication as to the Government's reaction to these recommendations which have twice come from Estimates committees. 
I would like now to draw the attention of the Committee of the Whole to page 3 of the report of Estimates Committee B, in which reference is made to annual reports and the fact that these are sometimes delayed and, when delayed, the job of the Estimates committee is made more difficult than it would otherwise be particularly where it is dealing with one-line appropriations. The Committee drew particular attention to the situation with regard to the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and the fact that its most recent report was not available for reasons which were not, on the face of it, the fault of the Commission. The Committee said: 
Where the certification of financial statements is the cause of delay in the presentation of a Report, the Committee sees no reason why the Report should be withheld, but rather believes that it should be presented with a qualifying statement explaining the nature of the delay in relation to certification. 
This is a matter which has also been dealt with by the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations, which, in a report relating to the Australian Housing Corporation, made the following recommendation:  . . if a Report, with accounts in a form approved by the Department of Finance, and /or the Auditor-General's Report, is not ready for presentation to the Parliament within 9 months of the end of the previous financial year, then the Minister should, within 1 S sitting days, present an interim report to the Parliament on the Corporation's activities, together with informal financial statements, and an explanation for the unavailability of the unaudited accounts. 
It does seem to be a matter whereby it would be proper for the Senate to take an interest in seeking to have made, if necessary, an amendment to the law to ensure that there is a better system for the tabling of accounts to this chamber and to the House of Representatives in the fulfilment of the role of the Parliament in ensuring accountability and scrutiny of the organisations established by government. 
I simply wanted to draw attention to this part of the report. It may be that it will have to be at some other time that we can take the matter further. But this is something which arose specifically during Estimate Committee B hearings. I draw the attention of the Committee of the 
Whole to that and hope that when on an appropriate occasion the matter is raised, there will be general support in this chamber for an amendment to the law. 

 -Yes, Mr Temporary Chairman. Once again I refer to page 4 of the report of Estimates Committee B where, under the heading of 'Department of Trade and Resources', reference is made to the fact that grants have been made available to the Queensland Government totalling, over three years, some $10m. The first of these was made pursuant to an agreement of 23 February 1977. The grants are in respect of the closure of Fraser Island as a result of Commonwealth Government action and are to enable the Queensland Government to undertake employmentgenerating activities in the area affected by the closure of Fraser Island. What has happened though, is that although the Commonwealth has requested an audited statement that the expenditure was undertaken in accordance with the terms of the grants, no such audited statement has been received. Thus the Committee viewed with some concern the fact that although the Queensland Government had agreed to the terms when the agreement was made in February 1977 that an audited statement would be supplied, no such statement has been received. The Committee suggested that if there was not an acceptable explanation as to why such a statement had not been received, the Senate might like to reconsider its view towards approving the payment of further funds until something is done about this matter. I now ask the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  whether it has been possible for any explanation to be obtained and if not, what the current state of play is in obtaining an audited statement from the Queensland Government in relation to the expenditure of the moneys that have been granted to it. 
I wish to deal with the scheduling of Estimates Committees hearings. I do not seek anything other than what the Minister noted I wanted to say. I wish to draw the attention of the Senate to page 4 of Estimates Committee B's report where reference is made to the problem that arose where in the scheduling of Estimates Committees on 19 October, Committee B together with Committees A and F, were schedule to sit at 12 noon. In fact some controversial legislation was introduced by the Government and listed for hearing in the Senate for debate on that day. The Estimates Committees scheduled to sit, with all the attendant officers from the various departments, were forced to wait until evening before they were able to commence. It was a mammoth waste of a lot of people's time. I hope that we will not have a repeat of what I think could be described as a fiasco. The Committee does wish to draw the attention of the Senate to the huge waste of money and resources and of everybody's time as a result of that action. We have suggested that, when the Estimates Committees are scheduled to sit, they sit and that the Senate does not continue to take up the time that has been listed as it does involve so many officers being brought to the House of Parliament and to be in attendance, waiting for the Committees to start. Having the officers who are to appear before three Estimates Committees hanging around for six hours or more of wasted time is not in the best interests of efficient government. 

 -Mr Chairman, as I understand the procedure, it is now appropriate for me to refer to a couple of matters that arise from the report of Estimates Committee B. I wish to move two motions which arise directly from that report. I move: 
That the Committee, having considered the report of Estimates Committee B, recommends that expenditure by individual departments under the Advance to the Minister for Finance be referred to the appropriate Estimates committees for consideration in conjunction with particulars of proposed expenditure. 
Page 2 of the report of Estimates Committee B referred to the fact that whilst there is some scrutiny through the Public Accounts Committee of expenditure under the Advance to the Minister for Finance the procedures of the Estimates committees would be far more effective if the committees had before them not only the appropriations but also that part of a department's expenditure which is included in the Advance to the Minister for Finance. The whole of the expenditure could then be seen in total rather than having the dissection which exists at the moment when some expenditure is dealt with under the appropriations and other expenditure is dealt with under the Advance to the Minister for Finance, the details of which are not available to the committees when they are considering the proposed expenditure of departments. 
Estimates Committee B recommends that expenditure by individual departments under the Advance to the Minister for Finance should be referred to the appropriate Estimates committee for consideration in conjunction with the particulars of their proposed expenditure. It is not intended- I emphasise this-that details of that expenditure should not also be referred to the Public Accounts Committee. Rather, the Estimates committees should have the details before them so that they may look at the proposed expenditure in total. In no way at all is this recommendation intended to change the specific consideration of the expenditure under the Advance to the Minister for Finance being undertaken by the Public Accounts Committee. I think that this is a fairly straightforward matter. I do not think that I need to elaborate on it further. I moved the motion as Chairman of Estimates 
Committee B which unanimously made the recommendation. 
I apologise for the fact that the Minister has not received a copy. I thought that the motion had been made available. I certainly agree to the matter being dealt with when we resume. I will make sure that the other motion I wish to move is circulated immediately. 
-Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I had moved a motion which read: 
That the Committee, having considered the Report of Estimates Committee B, recommends that expenditure by individual departments under the Advance to the Minister for Finance be referred to the appropriate Estimates Committees for consideration in conjunction with the Particulars of Proposed Expenditure. 
I explained the objective of Estimates Committee B in making this suggestion. It has been pointed out to me by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  that there may be some ambiguity because the motion does not specify the year to which it relates. I am happy to clarify this and I feel that the best way would be to amend my motion by adding after the words 'Minister for Finance' the words 'for the preceding financial year' so that the motion would read: 
That the Committee, having considered the Report of Estimates Committee B, recommends that expenditure by individual departments under the Advance to the Minister for Finance for the preceding financial year be referred to the appropriate Estimates committees for consideration in conjunction with the Particulars of Proposed Expenditure. 
I seek leave to amend my motion accordingly. 
Leave granted. 
-As I foreshadowed, pursuant to the recommendations of the report of Senate Estimates Committee B I wish to raise another matter; that is, the question of the Committee's capacity to be able to take evidence in camera. On page 4 of its report the Committee stated: 
While the Committee commends both the AttorneyGeneral and the Minister whom he was representing for acceding to the request - 
The request was that the Committee be provided with details of Decentralisation Advisory Board loans or grants, interest rates thereon, general policy and the way in which they were being administered. At first there was a coyness on the part of departmental officers to give any details at all. After an adjournment and the Committee members pressing the request the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack),  as Minister representing the Minister for National Development, was able to give the information sought by the Committee. However, what happened raised the question of commercial confidence. The Committee did not press for details of the interest rates applying in respect of individual loans. There was some suggestion that perhaps it was perfectly permissible- had the Committee pursued it- that we should be able to get the information. As opposed to that, there were some members of the Committee who thought that that information was appropriate to be made available to the Parliament but not made available publicly- in other words it could be given in camera- 1 do not go into that question but rather the question which it raises. 
This question first arose early in the history of Estimates committees when the Estimates committee dealing with the appropriations for the Australian Broadcasting Commission sought some information at the instigation of  Senator McAuliffe,  if my memory serves me correctly, in relation to what the ABC was paying for certain programs. The ABC said that it did not wish to answer because it was in a competitive commercial situation and that the information which was being sought, if made public, would disadvantage it in its competitive commercial situation. Increasingly we have the situation where a large part of the appropriations- 63 per cent- is by special appropriations of one sort or another. Statutory authorities of various sorts are dealing with huge amounts of public finance in a way which is very significant in the national economy. I think that the Parliament, in the exercise of its function of scrutinising public receipts and expenditure and ensuring accountability of the various types of government undertakings- be they provided to departments in direct government expenditure or indirectly through statutory authorities- is entitled to know, and must be provided with a sufficient basis to be able to ensure that it can know what is happening with the various types of undertakings which come for scrutiny. 
Estimates Committee B saw the need to give the opportunity for consideration where a statutory authority in a commercial position said: 'We do not want to disclose that publicly. We are not trying to withhold the information from you but it may help our competitors'. I can understand that and sympathise with it, not in every case where it may be raised. Such a procedure ought to be available to be raised by the statutory authority and the committee concerned should then decide whether it would take the evidence in camera. 
We did not press the request about the detail of the individual loans but we pressed the request concerning the interest rate policy and that information was given. This matter raised the question which has come up from year to year and which the Committee wants raised here tonight. This question comes up at almost every Estimates committee hearing that takes place. There is some authority or organisation which says: 'That is a matter which could adversely affect our commercial competitive situation if we were to disclose it on the public record'. As the Standing Orders exist at the moment whether any evidence can be taken in camera is a matter for decision by the Senate, not by a committee. My view, which I put tonight to the Committee of the Whole, is that that is not a practical way to overcome the problem. 
If an Estimates committee in the middle of its hearings has a situation where somebody says: 'I do not want to answer that question because it will adversely affect us in a competitive commercial situation' surely the Senate should be prepared to leave it to the Committee to decide whether to take that evidence in camera. But to bring the matter to this chamber and have it debated, then eventually after all the processes have been gone through to go back into the Estimates Committee and take the evidence in camera is a cumbersome, clumsy process and a waste of time of the Senate. It is an inefficient process which ought to be changed. In the light of those attitudes which I have just expressed Estimates Committee B seeks not a decision here tonight but to have the matter referred to the Standing Orders Committee for final result. I move: 
That the Committee, having considered the report of Estimates Committee B, recommends that the following matter be referred to the Standing Orders Committee: 
The desirability of Estimates committees taking evidence in camera where commercial or other confidentiality is involved and it is appropriate that such confidentiality be protected. 
We seek no more than that this matter be referred again to the Standing Orders Committee so that, in the light of what I have said and in the light of the practice and the experience of Estimates committees, it might be reconsidered by the Standing Orders Committee. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
1 ) That, if the Senate be not sitting when the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations has completed its First Report on Statutory Authorities, the Committee may send its report to the  President  of the Senate or, if the  President  is not available, to the  Deputy President,  who is authorised to give directions for its printing and circulation, and in such event the  President  or the  Deputy President  shall lay the Report on the Table at the next sitting of the Senate. 
) That the foregoing provision of this Resolution, so far as it is inconsistent with the Standing Orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in Standing Orders. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. What is the present stage of development in the preparation of a national corporations and securities industry bill and the creation of a national securities commission? Does the Minister agree that progress in this area has been more than a little slow? Can the Minister indicate what steps are being taken to expedite the agreement which, however unsatisfactory it may be in the view of some of us, at least would constitute some progress? 
I seek leave to move a motion in relation to the three reports just presented by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle). 
Leave granted. 
In August of this year the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations presented to the Senate a report on the Australian Housing Corporation annual report 1974-75. The Committee stated in its report: 
The Committee considers that this situation - 
Of years of delayis unacceptable. The activities of the Defence Services Homes scheme, since the end ofthe 1974-75 financial year, have not yet been reported to the Parliament. For three years, the Parliament has been kept in ignorance of the operations of this important statutory corporation. 
The report went on to state: 
. the Committee considers that the spirit of the law has been breached. It is surely the intention of the reporting requirements of the legislation that the Parliament be informed, on an annual basis, of the activities ofthe scheme. 
The Committee considers that where a dispute arises as to the form in which an Authority's accounts should be presented, then, pending the resolution of the dispute, an interim report should be made to the Parliament, together with informal financial statements. In this way, the Parliament can be kept informed of the activities of the authority on an up-to-date basis. This procedure was, in fact, adopted by the Minister in October 1975, when an interim Report  . . was presented . . . 
The Committee therefore considers that the reporting requirements ofthe current legislation are inadequate and that a new section should be added to the Act. This section should provide that if a Report, with accounts in a form approved by the Department of Finance, and/or the AuditorGeneral 's Report, is not ready for presentation to the Parliament within 9 months of the end of the previous financial year, then the Minister should, within fifteen sitting days, present an interim report to the Parliament on the Corporation's activities, together with informal financial statements, and an explanation for the unavailability of the audited accounts . . . 
Parliamentary democracy requires that Ministers, as the representatives of the Executive branch of Government, keep both the Parliament and the people informed of the activities of Departments and Statutory Authorities, rather than permit bureaucratic differences to provide an excuse for keeping those activities hidden from scrutiny. 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the papers. 
I further move: 
That the Senate adopt the recommendation ofthe Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations that a new section be added to the Defence Service Homes Corporation Act 1 976 to provide that if a report, with accounts in a form approved by the Department of Finance, and/or the Auditor-General's report, is not ready for presentation to the Parliament within 9 months of the end of the previous financial year, then the Minister should, within 1 5 sitting days, present an interim report to the Parliament on the Corporation's activities, together with informal financial  statements, and an explanation for the unavailability of the unaudited accounts. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
by leave- I table additional information received by Estimates Committee B and seek leave for it to be incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
-I move: 
1 ) That, if the Senate be not sitting when the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations has completed its First Report on Statutory Authorities, the Committee may send its Report to the  President  of the Senate or, if the  President  is unavailable, to the DeputyPresident, who is authorised to give directions for its printing and circulation, and in such event the  President  or DeputyPresident shall lay the Report upon the Table at the next sitting of the Senate. 
That the foregoing provision of this Resolution, so far as it is inconsistent with the Standing Orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in Standing Orders. 
By way of very brief explanation, I say that this is simply a matter where one of the standing committees of the Senate has almost completed a report- that report is in its third re-draft at the moment and is expected to be finalised very shortly- and, as the Senate is about to rise within the next few days and perhaps before the report will be available for tabling in the Senate this session, the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations has unanimously requested the Senate to adopt the procedure which has been adopted on past occasions of allowing the report to be presented to you,  Mr 
President, and for it to be published through that means. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
by leave- I present the report of the Australian delegation to the thirtieth ordinary meeting of the Council of Europe. The report is also being presented in the House of Representatives by the other member of the delegation, the honourable member for Newcastle,  Mr Charles  Jones. In that place he will be moving that the report be printed. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is the Minister aware that the Tasmanian rural economy, hard hit over the years by the effects of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement, has received a major compensation from the development of the poppy growing industry for legal drug production? Is it a fact that the Australian Government has now succumbed to pressures from the United States to curtail the already relatively small- in world production terms- Tasmanian industry? If so, what percentage cut in the Tasmanian production is to be agreed to? Is this attack on this important Tasmanian industry really likely to have any effect on the control of illicit drugs around the world? Did the Tasmanian Government concur in the course apparently now agreed upon? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
It is fair to say that there is a definite feeling among the Australian people today that the machinery of government may have become too large and unmanageable. This phenomenon can be summarised in the oft used term 'big government'. In fact this concern about 'big government' is widespread throughout the Western democracies. In particular the proliferation of statutory authorities in these countries and Australia has raised the question of governmental activity becoming excessive in the economy and in the lives of ordinary citizens. For some years Australian parliamentarians have viewed this proliferation of authorities with growing interest and some concern. Many questions arose as to the number, identity, role and significance of these instruments of government. Consequently, in October 1977, the Senate referred the matter to the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations for investigation and report. 
The Committee found that as Commonwealth statutory authorities have proliferated, they have acquired an extraordinarily diverse set of characteristics. They are often outside the standard departmental structure with its safeguards of ministerial responsibility and accountability. Little or no attempt has been made to achieve uniformity in the justification for their initial creation, in the degree of operating independence granted to them or in the strictness and form of their accountability requirements. This situation has created considerable problems, both for the Executive Government in effectively managing Australia's economy and administration, and for the Parliament in ensuring that the authorities' ultimate accountability to the people is maintained. An important example of the difficulties which have arisen concerns authorities' financial activities. Some are financed wholly from the Budget and are required to pay all other income into Consolidated Revenue. Others are able to both raise and keep moneys free from the supervision of ministers and the Parliament. Many others fall between these two extremes. As a consequence, the total impact which authorities have on the economy is hard to measure. Moreover, the ability of the Government to effectively manage the economy is reduced by not having complete control over finances which are obtained and employed by organisations essentially owned by the taxpayer. The Parliament, according to constitutional theory, is solely responsible for appropriating public moneys prior to expenditure. Nevertheless, some authorities are able to generate and apply finances independently, free from complete parliamentary oversight. Another anomaly is that the Public Service Board has only incomplete control over authorities' staffing. For example, the Board's power to impose staff ceilings on some authorities is uncertain. Moreover, some authorities are able to buy and sell property outside of the control of the Department of Administrative Services. 
As we see it, therefore, the major problem which we face in an inquiry is to strike a proper balance between, on the one hand, the appropriate operating independence of authorities and, on the other hand, their satisfactory responsibility and accountability to the Parliament and the people. When the extensive scope of the subject became apparent to the Committee, we decided to approach the subject in a selective way, and to publish a series of reports on a continuing basis, extending if necessary over several years, with each report commenting on different aspects of the inquiry. 
The first report, which has been presented today, examines authorities primarily from the viewpoint of the Parliament and concentrates on measures to improve their accountability. We regard this report as introductory in establishing and outlining some of the background facts in relation to these authorities. As the first step, the Committee set out to identify those Commonwealth statutory authorities which are actually in existence. Surprisingly, no comprehensive list was available, and the Committee compiled its own by examining each piece of Commonwealth legislation and taking various other and, I might add, somewhat tedious steps. The list, comprising 241 authorities plus a large number of subsidiary authorities, is included in the report. We consider that the absence of a list is indicative of the haphazard ways in which authorities have been created, and of the attitude towards their proliferation. The Committee intends to update its own list annually so as to keep the Parliament and the people fully informed. 
An examination of existing authorities showed that similar governmental functions are being performed by different types of organisations, for example, by statutory authorities and by government-owned companies. This results in variations in the degrees of operating independence and accountability standards. This Committee suggests that these anomalies could be overcome in the future by adopting the standard practice of creating an authority by separate statute if it varies from the departmental structure in a significant way. The lack of attention which has been paid to statutory authorities is further evidenced by the dearth of official statistics on them. The Committee commissioned a consultant to undertake a preliminary study into the impact of authorities on the Australian economy. The results of this study, which are included in the report, indicated that their impact is both significant and underestimated. The Committee is therefore carrying out a survey of authorities to ascertain the full extent of their financial activity and economic influence. We consider this aspect of their behaviour to be most important, because authorities directly or indirectly owned by the taxpayer constitute a significant economic force and yet are often outside the accountability safeguards of a department and remote from the Government's economic management guidelines. The full results of the survey will be published in 1979. 
The Committee considers that the direct link which exists between the Parliament and the statutory authorities it creates requires that the 
Parliament should institute satisfactory procedures to ensure that authorities are properly accountable for their actions. If these procedures do not operate, then the authorities may well, in effect, be accountable to no one- neither to the Minister nor to the Parliament. We consider that the taxpayer is the universal guarantor of authorities and that authorities should therefore be accountable to the taxpayer, through the Parliament, in at least the same way as a company is accountable to its shareholders. A primary method of ensuring this accountability is the presentation to Parliament of a comprehensive annual report. There are many anomalies in the reporting standards of authorities. For example, of the 194 authorities created by the Commonwealth in its capacity as the national government, 67 have the standard reporting requirement, 29 have no reporting requirement and the remaining 98 have a wide variety of other requirements. Auditing arrangements also vary considerably. The Committee considers that, to remove these anomalies, an annual reports Act should be enacted to introduce a standard reporting requirement for authorities whereby they would report annually to the Parliament through a Minister. We also suggest that the Act provide for interim reports to be tabled when final reports are delayed. The Act could also specify the basic contents of reports, in relation to both financial and general information, and should render the accounts of all authorities subject to audit by the Auditor-General. Annual reports should continue to be examined by the relevant Senate legislative and general purpose standing committees. If implemented, these proposals will continue the movement towards increased parliamentary oversight of authorities. A prime example of this movement is the new arrangement regarding the failure to meet reporting requirements announced last year by you,  Mr President,  as a result of a report of the Joint Committee on Publications. 
Because statutory authorities are often created to fill a need at a particular time it is possible that some have continued to operate after the reason for their creation has ceased to exist, or at least their need to continue as a separate entity. One method of overcoming this problem is 'sunset' legislation, now widely used in the United States of America, whereby the enabling Act for an authority imposes a time limit at the end of which the authority automatically disbands unless specifically authorised to continue by new legislation. In this way, authorities have to justify their continuation rather than having an automatic right to an indefinite existence. The Committee believes that the 'sunset' principle should be considered for inclusion in the enabling legislation for future authorities, and we intend to consider its possible application to authorities already in existence. 
In future reports, as well as discussing the economic impact of authorities the Committee will attempt to answer the following important questions: Firstly, when should a statutory authority be established to perform a particular governmental function? The system of conducting government through departments which operate under Ministers who are responsible and accountable to the people through the Parliament has served Australia well. It should not be departed from without good reason and the Committee will attempt to specify what those reasons should be. Secondly, what degree of operating independence should be granted to authorities once established, especially in relation to their financial activities, their staffing arrangements and their dealings in property and other assets? 
The answers to these questions can be established only in close consultation with those Public Service departments which have responsibility for these matters. The Committee will naturally be seeking these departments' views, as well as those of others concerned with the inquiry, including, of course, the authorities themselves. The Committee will also proceed with inquiries into the operation of specific authorities. The depth of these inquiries will vary but in some instances will involve considerable examination. 
At the time we published the list we believed that it was as complete as we could make it but we did not guarantee its accuracy. In fact, it has now been drawn to my attention that we did omit at least one name. I wish it to be noted that to that list should be added the Receiver of Scalps for the Australian Capital Territory. I feel confident that this office is not intended to provide some form of sinecure for retired political operators and in fact I have been assured that it has been in existence since prior to August last year. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
by leave- As is obvious from the date of the report, it is some years behind, and this is a matter to which reference has been made a number of times by the 
Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations. So that the matter may be investigated and explained to the Senate, I move: 
That the report of the Capital Territory Health Commission 1975-76 be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations for investigation and report as to the delay in its presentation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
by leave- I speak in my capacity as Chairman of the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations. I remind the Senate that the Committee investigated the lateness of these reports last year. It presented a report to the Senate on the reasons for the very long delay which had taken place in the presentation of these reports. Therefore I do not seek to have these reports referred to the Committee. 
by leave- I draw attention to the fact that the Australian Film Commission report is for the year ended 30 June 1977 and that its presentation has been considerably delayed. I move: 
That the report be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations for investigation and report in relation to the delay in tabling. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport whether the Minister is aware that Bass Strait is one of the most heavily trafficked seaways in the Southern Hemisphere and, for that matter, in the world? Is the Minister also aware that significant oil and other exploration and research activity is being undertaken in that area, together with heavy fisheries and recreational activities? Further, is he aware that the waters of Bass Strait will be the major training waters for the Australian Maritime College? Is it a fact that there are no modern navigation aids in Bass Strait? Will the Minister request the Minister for Transport to consider establishing Loran, Decca or some other modern navigation aid in the Bass Strait area, in the interests of not only maritime safety and environmental protection from oil spillage but also increased efficiency of operations and training? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Education. In view of" the special importance of the development of the Australian Maritime College to all aspects of the maritime industry as well as to the people of Tasmania to whom it constitutes a new industry, can the Minister inform the Senate of the latest progress in relation to the staffing and the capital development of the College, as well as the commencement of the courses there? 
-Having heard  Senator Georges'  contribution to this important debate, I am reminded of something that appeared as a quotation from Horace in the report which we are debating. It said: 
No poems can please for long or live that are written by water drinkers. 
In relation to  Senator Georges'  contribution to the debate, I just wondered whether he was trying to prove some point about the need for cooperation not only in relation to the question of drinking wine or water but also a number of other things. 
I would like to raise briefly my concern over reports such as this. When one reads the report it is hard to take exception with the careful details contained in it. But when one only reads a Press report indicating that a Senate committee has taken upon itself to say whether it is fair or not fair for the Wine Promotion Board to be trying to promote the consumption of wine and what the standards ought to be, I think that the Press is rather taking upon itself the role of my brother's keeper. The consumption of alcohol and its effects in the community, which are well known, concerns me, as does the consumption of tobacco and nicotine and all the other things which society does because it wants to do them. Society usually knows the risks that are involved and, notwithstanding that knowledge, makes a conscious judgment that it will do them. Driving cars and killing ourselves at an incredible rate is but one example. 
That is the point I was going to make but  Senator Peter  Baume, the  Chairman  of the Committee, has made it for me. I would have thought that we should concentrate our attention far more on what is killing other people as a result of our choices than simply what is killing us as a result of our choices. That is where I disagree with the imposition of authoritarian attitudes in relation to the advertising of tobacco, wine, fast cars or whatever it may be that is dangerous to somebody if they mishandle it. We should start saying: 'When are we going to do something about the people who are given a licence to murder on our roads? When are we really going to get down to the psychological testing of the fitness of people to be able to take in their own hands a missile with death written on it?' That is what our roads are all about. When one starts to worry about whether the banning of an advertisement in relation to the consumption of wine or the advertising on television of cigarettes is going to make any difference - 
Perhaps I can butt in for a moment to the debate that is taking place across the chamber and say that what it has done is to help cricket because the sponsorship of cricket has become far more obvious now. The Benson and Hedges organisation has made that very clear. 
The sponsorship of other well televised public sporting events, such as golf, has become the advertising medium for the tobacco companies. 
For the time being. 
When the honourable senator who is known as 'feathers' starts flapping about having a Winfield I wonder whether he is talking about having a 'win', a 'field' or some combination in between and what he is cackling about. Returning to the subject matter, I am concerned that we will become authoritarian if we are not careful, even if we act with the best of motives. I am concerned that we will start to adopt the role of our brother's keeper. I am concerned that, instead of being a society that is organising itself to prevent people from harming others by positive acts against the will of the other person, we will start to say: 'Thou shalt not because it may have an effect'. 
I would find it hard to believe that the debate in relation to the consumption of alcohol could be regarded as novel in the whole history of humanity. I think of the role of wine in the whole of Greek mythology. Classical Greece was one of the great societies with which we on this earth have been blessed. 
A society of its time. I will be happy to debate with  Senator Tate  the details of what was imperfect about it as well as what was good. I would rather feel that classical Greece advanced civilisation notwithstanding its shortcomings. Certainly there was no suggestion that it would ban advertising of the consumption of wine. In fact, a lot of the Greek gods seemed to have the whole of their mythology based around the consumption of wine. 
I was not trying to be limiting in my identification of what was important to them. The point I wish to make is that that society grew and developed to such an extent that it made a major contribution to what has been described as one of the four ages of civilisation of the world and there was a very substantial emphasis within that society upon the consumption of wine. I do not think it could ever be claimed that the consumption of wine destroyed that society. I do not think it could be said that it destroyed any of the other great civilisations. I do not think it can be said that it will destroy ours. What can destroy ours is the failure to adopt one of the other rather famous Greek mottoes of moderation in all things, self-moderation. Surely what we ought to be trying to achieve in our society is a situation in which the people judge for themselves what is moderation and what is excess. 
I would have thought that that was one of the dilemmas of our society. I would hope that our education system, with the total development of our society, can proceed along the lines that people will be able to withstand advertising, interpret advertising, receive advertising and not be destroyed by advertising. If we cannot, the banning of one single thing or another will not achieve the results which may be desired. I think we are making a mistake in picking out one or two things and saying 'let us ban tobacco advertising' or 'let us ban or control the advertising of alcohol' instead of saying 'let us educate the community so that it can interpret and digest the sort of pressures which have come from the technological media', in the same way as people in ancient Greece were able to withstand that which was the living, lasting communication system of that day, that is the paintings, carvings and what have you, most of which depicted the use of a number of things which are now regarded as bad. 
I said that they were members of one of the more lasting and most contributory civilisations that have existed in the whole history of mankind. I do not accept that it was wine, tobacco or anything else that destroyed them. I think there were other events. I said that moderation in all things was also a Greek motto, which may well be observed by a large cross section of the community. 

 - Senator Walters asks whether there is any evidence that education has produced any answer at all. If that requires debating then let me simply say to those who do not believe it can achieve: Let us cut $2 ,200m off the deficit immediately by cutting out expenditure on education. If it has failed it is because of the mode of delivery and the message, not because education cannot achieve. I am not suggesting that our current education system is providing the answer; but I am suggesting that we stop thinking about repressive measures and start thinking about education measures as an approach to our problem. 
In conclusion, I was fascinated by a book which was sent to us all a little while ago by a doctor in New South Wales who says that smoking is good for you. I know that lots of people would not agree with him. But I thought the point he made about the use of statistics was rather good. He made the point that so often statistics can be conveniently used and that really one could show that the progression in the rate of lung cancer in the United States equated with the increase in the consumption of cigarettes, but it also equated with the increase in the number of Toyota or Japanese cars and that, if you like to graph them both out, you could prove equally that it was caused either by the consumption of cigarettes or the increase in the number of Toyota or Japanese cars. 
Thank you. The point is that one must be very careful about jumping to conclusions. 
No, but there are a lot of deaths in them. I do not select them as being a dangerous car but a very large number of people die in motor vehicles as well as at the end of a cigarette. I would ask the Senate, whilst expressing its concern about what is happening to our society, not to think that repressive measures provide an answer. Let us not think that if we ban the advertising on television of tobacco, wine or fast cars that we provide an answer to any social problem that is causing death and misery in our society. I do not disagree with this report in its detail but I do think it needs to be seen in a context in which there was greater emphasis on the education of our society so that people can make well informed individual choices and less emphasis on repressing some activity in our society. 
I have just listened to  Senator Cavanagh  speaking about recommendations contained in the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. He misconceived on argument. If it had not been for the bad example I would have agreed with him. Having interjected, I should like to take the opportunity to explain the situation. I interjected to suggest that  Senator Cavanagh  's example was the equivalent of the Donoghue and Stevenson case- one well known in the law- in which a woman brought on action for damages after she obtained a bottle of cordial with a snail in the bottle. This case eventually went to the House of Lords. It became a cause celebre in the development of the law of negligence. But the fact is that in the final wash up of the whole matter it was found that there had been no snail in the bottle. 
The point  Senator Cavanagh  was making was valid but his example was disastrous. That was the point of my interjections. I believe that he entirely misconceived what the Karen Green case was all about. I take the opportunity to make those few remarks because I would like to support totally the other remarks made by  Senator Cavanagh  about joint committees. I wish to develop fully what I believe to be some of the misconceptions of the Committee's report, the thrust of which I agree with totally. I refer to the importance of ensuring that in the legislative process there is adequate protection of civil liberties and the rights of the individual. That is what the Senate Regulations and Ordinances Committee has been doing for 46 years, and I believe that it has been doing it extremely well. I have had the privilege of being a member of that Committee with  Senator Cavanagh  for a period of time. I know the strength of his belief in the importance of the work that that Committee does. In suggesting that he was wrong in the example he used, I do not want it to be taken that I am in any way saying that he was wrong in the theme that he was putting. 
I will not take the time to do so right now because I understand that I am expected to make a couple of brief remarks and then to seek leave to continue my remarks. The thrust of the Committee's report was to ensure the protection of civil liberties. The problem which the Committee perceived was one of ensuring that Bills introduced in the House of Representatives were covered in the consideration of this matter at an early stage. The Committee saw the establishment of a joint committee as the only answer. It believed that the only way of ensuring that a Bill which has not yet come to this chamber will be considered from the point of view of the protection of the rights of the individual, of the civil liberties in our society, was to have a joint committee and to have the Bill go before that committee at an early stage. That is just not so. Canada, to give an example, has a Senate of far less strength and, without disrespect, public repute than the Senate in Australia. It is not an elected chamber, and there are severe limitations on its activities. However, Canada has overcome this problem. It follows one of the other ways by which this matter can be approached. It has the capacity to consider, and does consider, Bills which have been introduced into the lower House before they have been introduced into the Senate. If it wishes to have a committee consider a Bill introduced in the other chamber it can refer that Bill to a committee for consideration prior to its being introduced into the Senate. This shows the fallaciousness of the basis of argument which has been the mainstay of the report we are debating. 
What the Committee is saying about the importance of the protection of civil liberties is something with which I totally agree. The Committee is saying that the only way to ensure it, in effect, is to have a joint committee. I have just demonstrated tonight that at least one other parliament similar to our own has found another way. At a later stage I wish to debate in some detail the other aspects of the undesirability of joint committees and the desirability of this chamber continuing to develop its role, such as has been exemplified by the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. By arrangement, I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
by leave- There is much I would like to say in relation to this matter. I will place some facts before the Senate so that honourable senators may weigh  Senator Gietzelt  's remarks with the aid of these facts. They are basically taken from a publication  Air Transport World  of January 1979. The figures show that as of November 1978 the average air fare in Europe, expressed in United States cents per mile, was 31.7c; in the United States of America the average air fare was 13.4c per mile; and in Australia the average normal economy fare was 13.7 US cents per mile. That means that Australia's air fares are fractionally above those of the United States and less than half the average in Europe. These facts are relevant to this debate. I do not wish to say that there are not ways in which further economies can be made and in which further alternative choices can be made available to travellers and tourists in Australia; but it needs to be understood that some of the allegations made against the Australian domestic airlines are not necessarily well founded. Perhaps this matter can be debated further at another time. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table giving a comparison of air fares. 
Leave granted. 

<graphic href="080232197903060_21_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="080232197903060_21_1.jpg"></graphic>

Examples are given for varying distances in Europe, and the United States and Australia. I think that the honourable senator will be able to find the comparability he wants from the table. The interpretation is a matter for honourable senators. I have made it available so that they can take it into account in further considering this matter. I thank the Senate for the opportunity to incorporate this document in the record. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Chaney)  adjourned. 
by leave- I join  Senator Bonner  in paying a tribute to Eric Bessell. He was a Vice-President of the Liberal Party in the Braddon electorate from 1961 to 1 966, State  President  of the Liberal Party in Tasmania from 1966 to 1973; National VicePresident of the Liberal Party from 1970 to 1973; and then, for an all too short period, in 1974 and 1975 a member of this Senate. I would like to remind people of what is involved, particularly for somebody who is resident on the far side of Wynyard in Tasmania, in being a State  president  of the Liberal Party. It involves travelling time, family dislocation, cost and other things which amount to a total family contribution to politics and the Liberal Party. Eric almost became known as the low flying aeroplane because of the trips he took over that period to Hobart and Launceston in connection with the affairs of the Liberal Party.  His  contribution was substantial by any standard. He was supported by his wife, Rita. Whilst not wishing to take a great deal of time on an occasion such as this reminiscing about people who have gone to the next phase of existence, or otherwise, I simply say that Eric Bessell made a contribution to politics in Australia which, I believe, was significant. 
Will the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Transport give consideration to the question whether there is any good reason for the continued existence of TransAustralia Airlines as a wholly owned Commonwealth statutory authority? Would it not be consistent with the philosophy of the Liberal Party to see TAA become privately owned? If so, will the Government consider the formation of a company to purchase TAA, with such company having a shareholding structure which would give preference to TAA employees and involve at least some aspects of the Kelso plan with a limitation on the percentage shareholding to prevent any individual or company from obtaining a major or controlling interest in the company to be formed? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is it a fact that a Commonwealth statutory authority, namely, the Australian National Railways Commission, has not presented a report to the Parliament since its report for the year 1974-75? If so, what possible reason exists for this apparent total disregard for the responsibility of the authority to be accountable to the people through the Parliament? Will the Minister seek to obtain an undertaking that a statement will be presented to the Parliament within a fortnight providing at least some information on the position of the ANRC and whether the Commission proposes to get around to letting us know what it has been doing all these years? 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
1 ) That, in the opinion of the Senate- 
Senators should no longer hold office as Ministers of State, with the exception of any  Senator holding  the office of Leader of the Government in the Senate, who, in order adequately to represent Government priorities to the Senate, should remain a member of the Cabinet; and 
Chairmen of the Senate's legislative and general purpose standing committees should be granted allowances, staffs and other entitlements similar to those currently granted to Ministers other than Ministers in the Cabinet. 
2 ) That copies of this resolution be forwarded to- 
the  Chairman  of the Remuneration Tribunal; and 
The Prime Minister, with a request that he initiate action to give effect to the proposals, including any necessary amendments to departmental estimates. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. It relates to proposals that have been made recently for new taxes. I preface my question by reminding the Minister that less than one week ago the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Hayden,  canvassed five changes to the tax system including the introduction of three new taxes when he said: 'We are introducing new taxes to avoid jacking up old taxes'. I ask: Is it not a fact that in the years 1 972-75, the party of the Leader of the Opposition used the most macabre but nonetheless novel taxation device to fill its coffers, namely, a soaring inflation rate? Is it also not a fact that  Mr Hayden  as Treasurer in 1975 introduced a most vicious and deceptive new tax system which was calculated to produce the largest ever increase in receipts in personal income tax between any two Budgets of the Commonwealth, namely, an increase in personal income tax receipts of $2,61 lm or an increase of 43.02 per cent? Did not the then Treasurer, now Leader of the Opposition, say in the Budget Speech in 1975 that his proposals were 'perhaps the most revolutionary changes since the inception of our personal income tax system' - 
And 'the new system represents a very considerable advance '. 
-This matter was debated on 1 March, and the debate tonight is a continuation of what occurred then. However, let me repeat the nature of the report and the subject matter of the debate. The Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs produced what I regard as a generally important and good report which advocated, basically, that there was a need in relation to all legislation to ensure that civil liberties were preserved and protected; that there were no undue degrees of delegation of legislative power; and that the interests of the public were adequately protected by the Parliament. 1 believe that we would all find it very hard to disagree with those propositions. In fact, I support them totally. 
An important function of the Parliament is to ensure that the Executive, in the exercise of Executive power, does not unduly interfere, or over-use the power to delegate; to ensure that civil liberties are protected. That is one of the major reasons for the existence of the Parliament. In my view the only question that arises for debate is how best it can be done. It is of some signficance to mention briefly that we do exist in a bicameral system. Some people in the community think that a bicameral system should not exist, that we should not have a Senate. Others believe that we should not have an effective Senate. I believe that we should have both a Senate and one that is effective; that one of the most important parts of an effective Senate, of an effective bicameral system, is the separateness of the Houses. Unless the Houses are separate, unless we can so far as possible ensure that the House of review, the second chamber, the chamber of second thoughts or whatever you like to call it, is as divorced as possible from the House of government and from the Executive the bicameral system will not be fully effective. 
I regard that as an honourable comment, an accolade which, in fact, I will quite happily accept. Yes, I may well be called a Senate chauvinist. I believe that Australia has good reason to be grateful to those who have fought in the past, and in particular during the period of the constitutional debates of the 1890s, to ensure that the Senate would be able to exist as a separate and distinct House. Some 35 per cent of the total debates during the constitutional conventions of the 1890s was devoted to the question of what ought to be the Senate's role and its powers. The net result has been that the Constitution has been designed on such a basis that we have the most powerful, the most independent, elected upper House, probably, in the world. That is something of which we should be proud and, to that extent, I accept happily the term Senate chauvinist. I am proud of the fact that we have been able to develop this system in Australia. Although it may at times have not worked as effectively as some of us would have liked, by and large it has worked effectively. Certainly, the opportunity is there for it to work even more effectively. 
Perhaps the departure of  Senator O  'Byrne would allow it to reach almost perfection because he would not be sitting here muttering away and disturbing my train of thought while I am talking about matters of not inconsiderable importance. 
If  Senator O'Byrne  would not mind, I would like to get on with talking about civil liberties, the scrutiny of Bills and the role of the Senate in relation to those matters. I make the point that within a bicameral system separateness is of the utmost importance. It is the justification for the continued existence of the bicameral system. When the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee was preparing its report it had some regard for what sort of committee should be designed for the scrutiny of legislation and said on page 15 of its report that it could be one of the eight legislative and general purpose standing committees of the Senate depending on subject matter, and existing standing committee- either the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee or the Regulations and Ordinances Committee- or a new committee specially established for the purposes- either a Senate committee or a joint committee of both Houses of the Parliament'. 
Having reviewed some of the problems and questions, it came to the conclusion, which is the reason for my entering this debate, that it was most desirable that this function be carried out by a joint committee of both Houses. The Regulations and Ordinances Committee of the Senate has, I believe, functioned extremely well for some 46 years. That fact is referred to and acknowledged in the report of the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee. I doubt whether there would be many who would not arguecertainly I believe that  Senator Cavanagh  would agree- that the Regulations and Ordinances Committee has fulfilled an important function. 
But only when the honourable senator uses examples which are not appropriate. That is what happened the last time we debated this matter. Getting back to the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, most people would agree that it has done an extremely important job and done it well. In relation to delegated legislation it has looked after the very matters which the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee was concerned should be better scrutinised in legislation coming before these Houses of Parliament. One of the reasons- it seemed to me to be a major reason- that were given by that Committee for suggesting a joint committee was that there are two problems. One is that the committees of the Senate are already fully loaded with work. 
And, secondly, that the - 
I was about to quote when  Senator Grimes  interjected and said something about a thread. I was trying to find the place in the report from which I wish to quote. I thank  Senator Grimes  for his intention to help me and I would be happy if he joined in the debate. I am sure that he was only trying to be helpful. It seemed that there were two bases upon which the Committee suggested that there should be not a Senate committee but a joint committee to scrutinise legislation. One was that most legislation is introduced into the House of Representatives and not until a relatively late stage does it come before the Senate, having already been processed through the House of Representatives. The Committee said that it is desirable that questions in relation to amendments to protect civil liberties be considered by both Houses and that there be the opportunity to consider them at an early stage; therefore, we need a joint committee. 
It so happens that the Senate in Canada- a not particularly powerful Senate and, unfortunately, a non-elected Senate- has taken to itself the role of scrutiny of legislation which is proposed in its lower House, the House of Commons. It has no problems there. As soon as legislation is introduced into the House of Commons it is referred to the Senate's scrutiny committees. I believe that that situation could exist in our Senate. I see no reason why that should be an argument for us to have a joint committee. The second matter referred to by the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee was the one which  Senator Grimes  found of some interest- the load on the committees as they exist at the moment. In paragraph 4.7 of its report the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee said: 
The common factor in our rejection of existing Senate committees as the appropriate scrutinising vehicle is that the new function would unduly derogate from existing functions or even overload those committees to such an extent that their existing work would be imperilled. For this reason we believe that a new committee should be established specially for the purpose. 
I have no problem in agreeing that a new committee should be established especially for the purpose, but I can see no reason why it should be a joint committee or why we should not enlarge the Regulations and Ordinances Committee to make it a regulations, ordinances and legislative scrutiny committee with perhaps two divisionsthe delegated legislation division and the division dealing with Bills. I believe that that Committee has over its 46 years of existence built up a very considerable degree of expertise and experience in looking after questions related to civil liberties. I believe that it has the capacity to expand that role further and I see no reason why it should not be given the opportunity to do so. If the experience of time proves that for some reason a committee such as the one I suggest- an expanded Regulations and Ordinances Committee- cannot adequately carry out the function, perhaps at that stage we can give further consideration to the suggestion of a joint committee. 
For all the reasons set out in the report of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System- Parliamentary Paper No. 128 of 1 976- and the interim report of that Committee- Parliamentary Paper No. 275 of 1975- there was a general view that joint committees are undesirable and unlikely to function satisfactorily. I do not think I need to spend a lot of time indicating why the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System came to that view. I think that its reasons are generally well known. They include the differences in the working times and operational times of the two Houses, the differences in geographical location, the differences of interest, the differences of function of the two Houses and the fact that experience has shown that perhaps the best joint committees and the only joint committees which we should have are those which are related to the domestic affairs and the organisation and operation of Parliament House itself and not related to the individual and separate responsibilities of the Houses of Parliament in their roles as the House of government and the House of review. 
I commend the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee on its report on the need for there to be some scrutiny of Bills to ensure that civil liberties are adequately preserved. I commend most of the suggestions made by that 
Committee and submit that the Senate would not be looking to the best interests and the continued operation of the bicameral system by advocating that this function be carried out by a joint committee on which the Senate would be swamped not only by the numbers of people from the House of Representatives but also by the Executive influence. Far from that, I would much prefer to see a situation where the Senate is as removed as it can be from direct contact with and the influence of the Executive so that the Senate can properly fulfil its House of review function. To enable it to do that I would like to see its committee system continue to develop as it has over the past eight or nine years- develop very substantially. I think this role could well be carried out by a Senate committee, and let whatever the House of Representatives may choose to do about the question be a matter for that separate and Executive dominated House. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
by leave- The report is quite old and, in the same terms as I have moved previous motions, I move: 
That the following matter be referred to the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations: The annual report 0f the Australian Development Assistance Agency for the year 1 976-77. 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer Is it a fact that the Savings Bank of Tasmania has recently been advised by the Reserve Bank of Australia that its call rate of 8.5 per cent on solicitors' trust accounts is outside the guidelines of arrangements between the banks generally and the Reserve Bank, and that the Bank has been requested to cease to offer accounts on call at a rate of interest in excess of 6.25 per cent for amounts over $4,000? Is this action discriminatory against the Savings Bank of Tasmania and is it a restraint against reasonable competition; or is it a part of some overall policy to force down interest rates? If it is discriminatory, will the Minister take steps to have the discrimination removed? 
by leave- As the other Senate member of the Australian delegation attending the meetings of the InterParliamentary Union in 1978, I totally support everything that  Senator Douglas  McClelland said about the report of the delegation. The conference was most useful. I would support most what the honourable senator said about members of this chamber and of all parliaments taking the opportunity to read something of the resolutions which were eventually hammered out and which reflect the views of a broad crosssection of parliamentarians of the world. One of the problems is that I do not think that a number of the parliaments represented would qualify as democratic parliaments or democratically elected parliaments. Nevertheless their representatives reflect something of the leadership of the countries from which they are drawn. The InterParliamentary Union provides a major meeting place for parliamentarians of the world. I do not think it is necessary for me to do more than simply emphasise that the resolutions contained in the report are worthy of consideration by all governments, by all parliamentarians and by the people of all countries as representing a world opinion. 
I make one brief reference to something which has already been reported to the Senate and to the Parliament. I refer to the Council of Europe Conference held at Strasbourg which was attended by some of the delegates who attended the IPU Conference. Those delegates were able to participate in the proceedings of what is the greatest gathering of democratic parliaments in the world. The attitudes expressed at that Conference, I believe, reflect some of the important world attitudes, and were not markedly different from those formed as a result of the IPU Conference. I take this opportunity to refer to a matter which has been mentioned previously, namely, the importance of selecting delegates to attend both the IPU Conference and the Council of Europe Conference at Strasbourg sufficiently early for them to have adequate briefing and undertake adequate background study of the issues likely to be raised. This would enable better participation by the Australian delegation in conferences which they attend. I totally support what  Senator Douglas  McClelland has said and welcome the presentation of the report. 
Sitting suspended from  12.45  to  2.15  p.m. 
Whilst I have considerable sympathy for much of what  Senator Cavanagh  has said, I make one or two points, lt seems to me that he trying to introduce some new rule, in inverted commas, that in order to be granted leave one party must in advance give an undertaking that somebody else will be granted leave. 
This is unworkable. I sympathise entirely with the proposition that, if  Senator Peter  Baume were to be given leave to make a statement,  Senator Chipp  should have a right of reply, or be able to give his side of it. I do not imagine for a moment that had he sought to do so leave would have been refused. 
I was sitting in my seat at the time. That was where I was. 
I was not asleep. I was listening with considerable interest, and some degree of concern, when the honourable senator intervened in a way which I thought, perhaps with the best of intentions, may have added to the problem rather than overcome it. I put the other side of the argument: If in pursuit of the general principles that  Senator Cavanagh  has enunciated, and with which I would agree- that fairness must prevail in this chamber- we are to try to have set rules we shall reach an absurd stage. For example, how many people are to be given leave? 
I do not think that we need that sort of rule. Honesty and decency would have prevailed tonight but for an intervention in an effort to demand something which could not really be given. 

 - Senator Cavanagh is entitled to make a speech about this subject. He has made it. I would hope that I could make mine. I did not interject while he was speaking. I wish briefly to make some points as to the running of this chamber. I have been interrupted so many times by  Senator Cavanagh  that perhaps I should re-state my position. By all means, let us try to have fairness in this chamber. Let us ensure that people are given an opportunity to make personal explanations. The situation tonight was that  Senator Baume  had been attacked. He was entitled to make a personal explanation. If his personal explanation left matters which required  Senator Chipp  to have an opportunity to reply then he should have had that opportunity. If somebody had tried to stop him I would have crossed the floor. 
I direct a question to either the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs or the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, whoever is the more appropriate. By way of brief preface, I refer to the case of an American citizen resident in Canada who, as a Professor of Chemical Engineering, wishes to spend his sabbatical leave in Australia and who has been required to be fingerprinted when applying for his visa. 1 ask: How long has Australia required fingerprinting in such circumstances and what is the purpose and justification of the action taken? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. The Minister may be aware that in recent years a period of more than nine months has elapsed after the close of their reporting period before the following statutory authorities have presented reports: The Australian Wool Corporation, on five occasions since 1972; the Australian Dairy Corporation, on five occasions since 1972; and the Australian Wheat Board, on each occasion since its restructure in 1974. Can the Minister indicate why each of these statutory authorities has not been able to comply with any reasonable reporting requirement?  I  ask the question particularly bearing in mind that public companies which do not comply with far more stringent reporting requirements are prosecuted. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Science and the Environment. Is it a fact that the Tasman Island weather reporting station has been converted to automatic operation? Is it also a fact that it is one of the important weather stations for fishermen, small ships and others operating in southern Tasmanian waters? Further, is it a fact that the operation of the automatic station has been far from satisfactory in that of the six elements to be relayed all have been reported on only 44 per cent of occasions during the past 12 months, and for 7 per cent of the time there have been no reports at all? Can steps be taken to make the automatic station more reliable? In view of this history of unreliability, is this a further cause for concern over the proposition that the manned station at the most important light and weather station on Maatsuyker Island be converted to automatic operation and at least a case for deferring that until certainty of weather reporting can be obtained? 
-I present the report and transcript of evidence from the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! I do not believe that there is a point of order.I believe that the motion was carried. I heard only one call for a division, from  Senator Georges,  and no more. It is my understanding and belief - 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I merely say that if 1 failed to hear you,  Senator Cavanagh,  that is unfortunate. I heard  Senator Georges  call once and that was the only call I heard. The motion was declared passed. 
I find myself in an exceedingly difficult situation. I just had a call from across the chamber that the arrangement that was made is off. An arrangement was made whereby I, as  Chairman  of the Committee, would present two reports and seek that the debate on the reports be adjourned until tomorrow to be dealt with then. I propose to reverse the order in which I was intending to deal with those reports and to introduce a report relating to 'Departmental Expenditure on Newspapers and Periodicals'. I ask  Senator Douglas  McClelland to take the time that it takes me to introduce that report to reflect upon the other arrangement. 
I present the report from the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations on its inquiry into 'Departmental Expenditure on Newspapers and Periodicals'. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave- 1 move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
In so doing, I indicate that as a result of a recommendation by the Senate Estimates Committee B in October 1 977, the Senate referred the matter to this Committee on 28 February 1978 for investigation and report. The Committee set out to ascertain the level of expenditure on newspapers and periodicals by Commonwealth Government Departments, and to investigate the guidelines which exist for the control of that expenditure. The expenditure by Commonwealth Departments on newspapers and periodicals in 1977-78 is set out in the report. Total expenditure was approximately $ 1 , 599,000. The amounts spent by each Department ranged from $607 to $258,100, and averaged approximately $53,000. In May 1978, the Departments of Finance and Administrative Services reviewed departmental purchases of newspapers and periodicals. There are no universal Government guidelines for Departmental expenditure on newspapers and periodicals. However, the Departments of Administrative Services and Finance in the review examined the internal procedures of each Department for the control of expenditure on those items. 
Procedures for dealing with requests vary from department to department; however in all departments the approval of senior officers is required. A number have rules, guidelines or policies, set down by senior officers, within which the approving officer makes decisions. The review was initiated following the Treasurer's expression of concern in early 1977 for economy measures to be taken by all departments. It found that individual departments have a widely varying need for newspapers and periodicals. Whilst the major daily and weekly publications are common to all departments, each department has an individual need for particular publications. For this reason it was not considered desirable for general directions to be issued to all departments curtailing expenditure on newspapers and periodicals. Moreover, between 1976 and 1977, the actual purchases of newspapers were found to have been reduced by 9 per cent and of periodicals by 2 per cent. The Committee has no doubt that it is necessary for public servants to have ready access to newspapers and periodicals which are the basic sources of written information in countries such as Australia. Having reviewed the present costs, and the management methods of departments to control expenditure on newspapers and periodicals, the Committee considers that they are satisfactory in view of the relatively low level and slow rate of growth of this expenditure. This was the same conclusion reached by the Government review. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
 Motion (by  Senator Rae)  proposed: 
That the adjourned debate be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
I present the report and transcript of evidence from the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations on its inquiry into the Capital Territory Health Commission Annual Report 1975-76. In doing so I thank the Opposition for its co-operation in making the arrangement to enable me to present this report tonight on behalf of the Committee. I also thank the Opposition for agreeing to the arrangement that I would present the report and indicate a motion, of which I give notice for tomorrow, on the basis that the matter can be debated tomorrow. The Opposition can indicate its views then and, as I understand it, its support for the motion. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
In doing so, I indicate that this Committee has been given the responsibility by the Senate for the continuing oversight of the activities of Commonwealth statutory authorities. In August 1 977 we became concerned about the delay in the presentation of the 1975-76 report of the Capital Territory Health Commission. Preliminary inquiries were made at the time. The report was eventually tabled in the Senate on 2 1 February 1979, that is, over two and a half years after the completion of the financial year to which the report related. As a result of this late presentation, the report was formally referred to this Committee by the Senate. We have subsequently taken evidence at public hearings from the Capital Territory Health Commission, the AuditorGeneral's Office, the Department of Finance and the Department of Health.  We  were primarily concerned with the reasons for the delay in the presentation of the report and with the problems which occurred in its preparation. The history and the causes of the delay in the presentation are set out in the Committee's report. The essential problem was a dispute over the form of the Commission's accounts. 
The Committee considers that the circumstances surrounding the report's disgracefully late presentation represent an unsatisfactory disregard for the obligations and responsibilities to the Commonwealth Parliament of the Commission. If the 1975-76 financial statements of the Commission had been presented to the Parliament in the 1976 Budget session, they would have been accompanied by a qualified certificate from the Auditor-General. They were not in fact presented until over two years later- and yet were still accompanied by a similar qualified audit certificate. The lengthy negotiations and discussions which had occurred in the interim resulted in no substantial change in the report as presented to the Parliament. The text of the report, comprising 126 pages, was ready for presentation in the 1976 Budget session. This was held back for over two years because of a dispute over the accounts, which comprise 4 pages and which were eventually presented in the same form as originally prepared. The text of the report, as finally seen by the Parliament, whilst informative and detailed, was largely of historical interest only in view of the time which had elapsed since the period described. 
This Committee has set out its views on the relationship between statutory authorities and the Parliament in its first report on 'Statutory Authorities of the Commonwealth'. As stated there, it is essential that authorities are accountable and responsible to the Parliament which creates them. A primary form of this accountability is the presentation of an adequate annual report within a reasonable time. The history of the 1975-76 report of the Capital Territory Health Commission represents a totally unacceptable standard of accountability. The solution to the problem is one which the Committee has suggested elsewhere. We consider that the Commission should have presented an interim report, with draft financial statements, to the Parliament while the accounting dispute was being resolved. We have suggested in our report on statutory authorities that such a practice be introduced for all authorities through an annual reports Act. If this provision had been in operation the Parliament would have received a report on the Commission 's activities not only for 1975-76 but also for 1976-77 and 1977-78. Reports for these later years have not yet been tabled. We consider that the Commission should certainly present an interim report should a delay occur again in the future. The Commission itself considered and rejected the possibility of presenting an interim report for 1975-76. For the reasons outlined in our report we consider that this decision was incorrect. 
A further, and even more important, matter arose during this inquiry. The accounting dispute occurred because the Commission wished to employ a system of cash accounting. The Committee was informed that this system was introduced throughout Australia's hospital services when the cost sharing agreement between the Commonwealth and the States began. However, a cash accounting system has serious drawbacks. The Department of Health admitted in evidence that the system does not disclose the true cost of Australia's hospital service because items such as the provision for superannuation and long service leave and a number of other matters are omitted. 
The Committee regarded this evidence with great concern. The situation appears to be that because the provisions for certain liabilities are excluded from the accounts used by hospitals the complete liability of government, and therefore of the taxpayer, for the services is unknown. There are few more expensive facilities financed from the public purse than hospitals. It is bad enough that the financial details of these services are not known but even worse when the intentional ignorance of these unstated liabilities amounts to a disregard for a large and mounting degree of indebtedness which the taxpayer at some stage will have to meet. We therefore intend to request that the Committee be given additional terms of reference which would enable us to investigate hospital costs so that the real expense of the provision of hospital services in Australia may be taken into account in determining health policy. We intend that this inquiry would lead to a recommendation on a form of accounting which would readily disclose those full costs in the future. 
We note the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare entitled 'Through a Glass, Darkly; Evaluation in Australian Health and Welfare Services' which was tabled in the Senate on 3 May 1979. The Committee, in its report, expressed its primary concern over the lack of evaluation of Australia's health and welfare system and also stated that bodies should be accountable for the public moneys which they use. We, in our area of responsibility, express our concern in relation specifically to the accountability and costing of hospital services. The additional reference which the Committee will be seeking will be the cost accountability of Australian hospital services. Pursuant to Standing Order 36aa, I give notice that tomorrow I shall move: 
That the following matter be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations: The Cost Accountability of Australian Hospital Services. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned.  (Quorum formed). 
I seek leave to amend Business of the Senate, Notice of Motion No. 1 to read as follows: 
That the following matter be referred to the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations: The cost accountability of Australian hospital services funded wholly or in part by the Commonwealth. 
Leave granted. 
Motion (by  Senator Rae)  agreed to: 
That the following matter be referred to the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations: The cost accountability of Australian hospital services funded wholly or in part by the Commonwealth. 
I bring up the report of Estimates Committee B on the particulars of proposed additional expenditure for the year 1978-79, together with the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave- I table additional information received by Estimates Committee B and seek leave for it to be incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
I seek leave to make a brief statement in relation to the report which has just been presented. 
Leave granted. 
It has been the practice in recent times for the  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations to move for the reference to that Committee of any report which is apparently belated in its presentation. This, of course, is a perfectly proper aspect of that Committee's role in relation to developing and ensuring the accountability of the various authorities to the Parliament. I would just wish to mention that although the presentation of this report is obviously late, I do not propose to move that it be referred to the Committee because the Committee has just completed an investigation of the 1975-76 report of the Capital Territory Health Commission. The Committee's report, which was tabled on 9 May, sets out the reasons for the delay generally in relation to the presentation of the Health Commission's reports. Anybody who is wondering why the report tabled today was presented so late will find an explanation and comments set out in the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations of 9 May. 
I would like to refer briefly to a matter raised by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. I believe that the work of a committee which has been harmonious and most effective has been, unfortunately, inadvertently misconstrued. The Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations, of which  Senator McClelland  and I are members, has reported to the Senate on a number of matters. I confirm what  Senator McClelland  has said, that is, that at no time has the Committee suggested the sale of Trans-Australia Airlines. I also confirm that I have not suggested in any way that the Committee has made such a recommendation. I have put forward a personal view. It is a view which is supported within sections of the Liberal Party of Australia. It is neither a matter on which I would expect the Senate Standing Committee- made up as it is of three Liberal and three Labor members- to be likely to reach agreement nor a matter which is to be dealt with by the Committee. The Committee has not sought or purported to deal with it. I have never at any time purported to suggest that it was dealing with it. 
I shall read briefly the statement which I made correcting the situation and to which  Senator McClelland  has referred as it will help to confirm what he has said. 1 issued a statement on 17 May 1979 in which I said: 
Wilh regard to my proposal to sell TAA to a company to bc formed by the Commonwealth Government with an emphasis for employees and small investors to purchase the shares, I wish to make clear that this was put forward by me as an individual  Senator. 
At no time have I suggested that this proposal was contained in any report of the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations. 
In so far as the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  may have indicated that he believed the matter was raised in a Committee report he was, as he has explained to me since, acting on a misunderstanding created by something he was told yesterday morning and before he had a chance to examine the Committee's report. 
I first raised the matter publicly in a question in the Senate on 20 March 1979. 
I propose to pursue the matter as an individual  Senator and  member of the Liberal Party. 
I shall now quote briefly from a front page report on this matter in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 16 May. The report states: 

 Senator Rae is  chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations, whose main role is to oversee all Commonwealth statutory authorities including TAA. 
He stressed he was speaking as an individual senator, and not as  chairman  of the joint committee. 
I may say that that is what I did whenever I was speaking about this proposition to any section of the media. I understand  Senator McClelland  's concern that some of the supporters of the Australian Labor Party think that he and his colleagues on the Committee have behaved in a way which would not be regarded as traditional within the Labor Party and therefore his concern to clarify the matter. I also emphasise that our Committee has been, and is continuing to be, involved in work which is primarily related to an assessment of the accountability of statutory authorities in Australia- an assessment of the procedures; an assessment of the adequacy or otherwise of any legislation which exists at the moment in relation to accountability; the timeliness of reports; the adequacy of those reports; and all other aspects of the question of accountability and the role of the statutory authorities in the economy of Australia. That is the major function of the Committee. 
While I am speaking I would like to take the opportunity to outline briefly to the Senate the proposal which was referred to in the Press and other sections of the media last week. I believeagain I stress that I am expressing an individual and personal point of view- that big government is a matter of concern not only in Australia but also in a large number of similar countries in the world. I believe that in the post-war period government has tended to grow to the stage where it is too intrusive, where it is too large and where it has problems in governing itself. I think it is interesting that a question raised in Canada, the United States of America, Britain and other places has been: Can government govern itself? 
We have a situation where statutory authorities, government departments, government activities have expanded dramatically in Australia, both from a Federal point of view and from a State government point of view. We have almost 250 statutory authorities of the Commonwealth. In Victoria alone there are over 500 statutory authorities. I cannot give the figures in relation to the other States, but they are comparable to the Victorian figure, according to their size. There are vast numbers of statutory authorities of the Commonwealth. Where they are engaged in commercial activities, where they are engaged in activities in which there is no direct government function, I find it hard to understand why they should be conducted by the government. 
Trans-Australia Airlines was established in the early developmental period of the domestic airline services in Australia. After the Second World War I believe that it was not unreasonable that government should have been involved in the development of a domestic airline service. I believe that it was not unreasonable that government funding and government assistance should have been available. What has happened since then is that we have developed a two airline policy. We have a situation where our domestic airlines are subject to a large amount of government interference as well as an amount of government support through guaranteed loans to enable the airlines to purchase aircraft. In fact, one of the rather extraordinary things about TAA is the extent to which it has relatively low shareholders' funds and very high loans as a result of the guaranteeing of those loans by government. The situation is that its gearing ratio is quite extraordinary for an operation of its size. But that is a matter to which I will refer further in a moment. 
Since the two airline policy developed and since our airline system has developed, we have reached a stage at which many Australians believe- I believe this also- that it is time to review our approach. I think it is time to ask: Is there a good purpose still to be served by having government own and operate one of the two national airlines? From what I can see, it is not necessary in the operation of the two airline policy for one of the two airlines to continue to be owned by the Government. Whether we should keep the two airline policy or vary it and whether the Government should keep the ownership of TAA are separate questions, which are divisible. I believe that both questions need consideration. 
I would like to refer today only to the question of selling TAA. I think that if it were owned by private enterprise and if it were in direct competition with another private enterprise airline, we would be more likely to have the natural development of a greater degree of competition and, whichever party was in government, it would be more likely to start to review the two airline policy with a view to achieving that which most Australians seem to want, which is a departure from what Australians see as a marked lack of competition. It may be that some of the criticism of TAA and Ansett Airlines of Australia as the heavenly twins, as they are quite often called, is unfair. It may be that their public relations is not as good as it should be in explaining the extent to which competition does exist. But I do say that it is a common belief throughout Australia that there is a lack of competition between the two airlines. People see the airlines sending aircraft off as if they were tied together with a string, one after another, at particular times of the day instead of people having a greater choice of services, it is a matter of which airline one travels with at a particular time. Many people complain about this. 
One point I wish to emphasise is that it is often mistakenly said that Australia's airline services are very expensive compared with those provided in the rest of the world. I produced and tabled in the Senate no so long ago, figures showing the comparative situations in regard to cents per kilometre flown in the United States, Europe and Australia. Those figures show that the normal economy fares of Australia's domestic airline services are comparable with those of the United States. The number of cents paid per kilometre in Australia is less than half the average number paid for similar normal economy fares in Europe. I believe that that is something of which Australians can be proud. The Australian airlines- one at the moment is government owned and the other at the moment is privately owned or is a public listed company- have been able to develop a safe, efficient, and reasonably priced airline service for Australians. 
But we in Australia suffer from the tyranny of distance. We suffer from the fact that in Europe one can travel from national capital to national capital for a price which is relatively low compared with the price one has to pay in Australia to get from one State capital to another. Because Europe is so much smaller than Australia and Australia is so large, it adversely affects a large number of aspects of the development of our national economy and national life, it adversely affects our tourist industry, and a number of other matters. 
The difficulty is not the fact that we have to pay a large number of cents per kilometre but that we have to travel an awful lot of kilometres to get from one part of Australia to another. This is a matter which may have to be taken into account in looking at other ways in which we can overcome the problem of moving people, providing mobility for people, around this continent of ours, even though to this stage the airlines have been able to develop a safe, efficient service at a relatively low cost per kilometre. I believe that greater competition could help in the development of that sort of service. I think that' the airlines themselves would probably find that a number of aspects of the two airline policy are not matters which they would regard with a wild degree of enthusiasm. 
Without being in any way a radical, I cannot see any reason why we should not be starting to think of making two changes: One generally to the two airline policy and the other to the structure of TAA. I believe that a number of useful purposes could be served in considering the structure of TAA. Why does government have to involve itself in commercial activity in our type of society? I do not know the answer. If there were a national role to be played, such as is the case with Qantas Airways Ltd, I could understand the present situation. One might argue that Qantas is the national flag carrier, that it is operating under international agreements made between the Government of Australia and other governments, that it is operating against other government-owned international airlines. It may be argued therefore that our international flag carrier ought to be a government-owned operation. I make no comment as to whether that is right or wrong; I simply say that could be an argument. So far as TAA is concerned, no such argument can be advanced for the continuation of government enterprise as opposed to private enterprise. The Government has long since lost its developmental role. In the early development days of TAA a case may have been able to be put that government had a role to play. 
If we were to consider this proposition of selling TAA, I believe that the time is right to try to engage a greater degree of flexibility and competition and to take the opportunity to improve the workings of our private enterprise economy. I emphasise that not only  Senator Douglas  McClelland has been concerned but also I have been concerned about some of the misunderstandings that arise. The Labor Party spokesman on transport,  Mr Peter  Morris, has claimed that I wish to suggest that TAA be sold to big business. The point I have made repeatedly is that it be prevented from being sold to big business. For that reason I wish to outline again the plan. The plan is that the Government should incorporate a company which would be a public listed company. It would be listed on the stock exchanges, but its share structure would be such that first priority would be given to the employees of" TAA to purchase shares in their company. That could be done through a plan which was developed by Louis Kelso in the United States and which is operating successfully in a large number of cases in that country. He cites the example of a janitor at Sears Roebuck, a company which has engaged in this type of plan. The janitor retired not so long ago with $600,000 worth of shares in Sears Roebuck. I believe that a large number of advantages exist from having an approach of worker participation in equity as opposed to the approach of worker participation in management. 
I believe that if we have worker participation in equity there is greater encouragement to the employee without taking away the opportunity to have some appropriate worker participation in management. If there is worker participation in equity through a company structured to give priority in share holding to the employees, a situation is provided where employees receive three rewards for their work instead of just one. Firstly, they receive one reward of salary or wages, secondly, they receive the reward of a growth in their equity in the company through the growing value of the shares- if it operates successfully and as it grows with the growth of the nation- and, thirdly, there is the reward for their effort which is through the dividends on the shares which they hold. So instead of employees in this situation having only a single reward they have a triple reward. I believe that this is far more likely to make them enthusiastic, efficient and productive employees than if they are limited to a situation where their reward is solely that which they can grind out in industrial negotiation. All too often in the airline industry in recent years employees have resorted to strike tactics in order to achieve some improvement in income. I would think that if employees could see that the company was more likely to be profitable if they kept the airlines running and that they would get a share of the profits, then they would be less likely to look only to industrial disputes in order to improve their position. 
There are many aspects of our capitalist or our private enterprise system which I believe need development and review. If we are to retain that system it has to be efficient, fair and supported by a large percentage of the population. If employees do not feel that they are involved in it or if they do not feel that they have the opportunity to participate on a fair basis, then I believe that they are more likely to be attracted to other approaches such as those advocated by some of the democratic socialist and socialist parties which advocate the nationalisation of the means of production, distribution and exchange. This is the approach of the communists or other people who do not put at the foremost the private enterprise system as the best system likely to make an economy work satisfactorily for the people who are involved in it. If we want the private enterprise system to work satisfactorily then I believe we have to facilitate the individual around Australia, the person with small savings, the employee as well as the big investor- the capital owner- to be able to participate in private enterprise. This is one important way in which it would be possible for the Government to give a lead to those who are at the moment in controlling positions within our capitalist system to encourage worker equity participation and to encourage small investor participation. 
I believe that one of the most disastrous things that has happened to Australia in the past 10 years or so has been the effect of a succession of rip-offs of small investors; a succession of routs and ramps and raids by people- many of whom ought to be in gaol but are not- who have used an ineffective police system in Australia, the stock exchange, or the existing company law, for their own benefit in order to manipulate, abuse and destroy the savings of many small people. I do not regard that as being likely to be conducive to people enthusiastically supporting a private enterprise system. I believe that we should start to make the regulation of that area effective. We should not do this with a view to making people's decisions for them, not with regulations which say you must do this or you must do that, but with regulations which ensure that the system works fairly, freely and openly and in which disclosure is an important part. Disclosure is as important as a quid pro quo to limited liability arising from incorporation. It has always been regarded as the quid pro quo. Disclosure needs to be taken further to ensure that people are not misled and that they are able to make their decisions based on full and proper information. 
I see the cleaning up of some of the abuses and malpractices that have taken place within our securities industry over the past 10 years and more as an important part of the development of what some people describe as participatory capitalism. Rather than use that term, I say that it is a system in which the average individual, who can save some money, believes that by investing that money he can improve his position, his participation in the growth and rewards that come from growth in this great country of ours. I suggest that the Government should be giving a lead in this respect. It should be using the opportunity it has with Trans-Australia Airlines to give that lead and to try out the Kelso plan which is not a novel plan. It has been around for a number of years and has been considered in Australia, particularly since the Company Directors Association of Australia brought Louis Kelso out here in late 1975 at which time he gave a large number of lectures and explanations of how the plan works. I had the pleasure of meeting him at that time and I was most impressed with his proposals. 
No, but I believe that we can structure a company under the existing legislation. In fact I understand that at the moment a proposal is on its way to- if not with- the Minister for Transport suggesting just this in relation to TAA. It is from somebody who is an expert in the implementation of that plan. I hope that it will receive due consideration. I will inquire at Question Time tomorrow whether it has. Going further with my suggestion in relation to TAA, I emphasise that first and foremost the company should be structured to give priority in shareholding to its employees. Secondly, I believe it should be structured with a limitation on the size of parcels of shares, not to close up the market entirely or to adversely affect the marketability of shares but to ensure that it cannot be taken over by either overseas or Australian transport interests, or by other big business interests wishing to gain control. It will be possible to go further and legislate in relation to who may own shares and who may not. However, to me that seems unnecessary. If the company is structured properly it is not necessary to go to that extent. That has been done by certain State Governments in relation to another airline and by other State Governments in relation to oil exploration companies. It is not unknown in Australian legislation and in company law. 
In summary the suggestion in no way is to sell TAA to big business. In no way is it a matter of simply saying: 'Let us flog off one of the few successful things in which the Government is involved '. It is a matter of saying: ' Why does the Government have to engage in economic enterprises at all when they can be satisfactorily carried out on a private enterprise basis where there can be much greater incentive to efficiency and productivity?' I think that we have an excellent opportunity to do just that. Finally, I refer briefly to a situation in relation to annual reports. Today the annual report of the Australian 
National Airlines Commission, which administers TAA, was tabled in this chamber as well as the statutory statement made by Ansett Airlines. The reports were tabled 1 1 months after the end of the last financial year. I believe it is significant that Ansett Transport Industries Ltd was able to present to its shareholders its forty-first annual report for the year ended 30 June 1978 before the end of October 1978. That report has been available to shareholders, to stock exchanges, to regulatory authorities, to members of parliament, and to anybody else for more than six months. It is important that reports be made available early after the close of the financial year so that those who are concerned to consider what is happening, in this case in the airline industry, can get the information before it is so old as to be of historical interest only. I note that the statutory report to the Minister from Ansett Airlines of Australia, which was tabled today, is dated December of last year. Yet for some reason it has taken the Minister or his Department until now to get the report to a stage where it can be made available publicly. I emphasise that all the figures reflecting the full activities of Ansett Transport Industries were made available publicly last October in a report to its shareholders. 
Let me turn now to TAA. Today, for the first time, we have access to the figures and the report of TAA. I believe that this is one of the things which happens too often when a bureaucracy is involved in the administration of an activity. I understand that the financial statements for 1977- 78- that is, for the year ended 30 June 1978- were formally approved by resolution of the Commission in early September 1978. It would appear that the Commission is fairly efficient and effective in preparing its financial statements but they were made available publicly only today. I understand that the financial statements were forwarded into the bureaucratic machine in September last year. Until today the public, the taxpayers, who may be categorised currently as the shareholders in TAA, together with everybody else who is interested in the operation of the airline industry and perhaps TAA in particular, have been kept in ignorance of the figures. I cannot think of a reason why TAA could not have published its draft on the same basis as any other statutory authority publishes a draft. An explanation could have been given that the figures were still subject to approval or certification by the Auditor-General, or whatever other requirement may hold up publication. I note again that a very small part of the delay has resulted from the certification of accounts by the 
Auditor-General. As I understand it, the accounts were received back from the Minister for Transport or the Department of Transport in mid-March. They were forwarded then to the Auditor-General, who issued his certificate on 1 0 April. Again, one can hardly say that it was the Auditor-General's fault that matters were held up. I think it becomes reasonably clear with which Minister and which department the accounts have been residing, for good or bad reasons, for quite some period of time. 
I note that it was in June 1 978 that the previous annual report of TAA was tabled in the Parliament. It seems that the practice has grown up whereby TAA as a statutory authority provides information to the bureaucracy, the bureaucracy slowly takes its inexorable course, and eventually but very belatedly the information comes out at the other end of the process. 1 would have thought that if TAA were a publicly listed company owned by its shareholders- employees, the small investors of Australia- it would not be in the position of having to withhold its figures until after they had been through the bureaucracy. In making my remarks about TAA, I am not being critical of the company or of its operation. I am enthusiastic about how much better things could be in relation to the lot of the employees of TAA, the lot of our private enterprise system in Australia and the degree of competition and effectiveness in the airline industry of Australia. For that reason, I make this suggestion. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport: Is it a fact that TransAustralia Airlines annual report for 1977-78 was tabled, together with its financial statements, and therefore first made public yesterday? Is it a fact also that the annual report, including financial statements, of Ansett Transport Industries Ltd was filed and published to shareholders and the public on or about 28 October 1978? Is it a fact that TAA had prepared its financial statements and submitted them to the Government by letter dated 6 September 1978? What was the cause of the delay between September 1978 and yesterday in the presentation of TAA 's financial statements and annual report? Does the Minister agree that for reports of statutory authorities to be useful and relevant they should be made public as soon as possible after the close of the financial year to which they relate? If we must retain commercial statutory authorities, can steps be taken to ensure that government bureaucracy  does not delay and disadvantage aspects of their operation and accountability? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I refer to the statement made last year by the Minister outlining a policy package relating to the oil distribution and retailing industry. Will the Minister make a statement prior to the rising of the Parliament for the winter recess indicating the progress achieved in the implementation of that policy package as it appears that lack of progress is causing concern in sections of the industry? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to the now notorious fact that the Australian National Railways Commission has not reported since 1975. In view of the current rumours that the Indian-Pacific passenger service is suffering an average loss of about $5,000 per trip, will the Minister seek to expedite the presentation of the report so that the public may know, rather than speculate, on the financial affairs of the Australian National Railways Commission? 
It seems to me that you,  Mr President,  have clearly and carefully outlined the position which is well known and well acknowledged in this Senate. Any further debate on this matter is almost in contempt of what you have said and should not proceed any further. The issue is clear and I move: 
That the question be now put. 
That the question be now put. 
I feel that it may be helpful if I indicate- as one who was present during Committee B hearings- in response to what  Senator Georges  raised regarding judges' use of cars that the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  indicated that this matter is being investigated by his Department and another department. While problems exist this matter is being considered. Steps are apparently being taken in relation to the matter. That was the evidence given by the Attorney during the hearings. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
-We have had since this afternoon to examine the report of the Commonwealth Arbitration Inspectorate for the period 1 July 1977 to 28 February 1978. February 1 978 was only 1 5 months ago and one could almost comment that since the inspectorate has been able to submit something within that time its performance has improved. Perhaps the inspectorate misjudged, because there is a whole history in relation to what was the inspectorate and now is apparently, from the staff point of view, substantially the Bureau, which has been a matter of concern to successive Estimates committees for quite some period. A tremendous amount of work must have been put into preparing this report, which is fully four pages long. It does include also a quite large number of statistics, indeed some 27 pages thereof well spaced- not all by any means completely filled. 
The situation is not novel. The Estimates committees of the Senate are treated by the inspectorate and its successors in a way which perhaps leaves something to be desired. I would like to quote from the report of Estimates Committee F, which dealt with this matter in 1977. At page 100 of Parliamentary Paper 221-1977, which represents the combined reports of all the Senate Estimates committees, Estimates Committee F said: 
It considers, however, that delays in the presentation of many reports to the Parliament are inexcusable. A specific example, which first came to the attention of the Committee during its consideration of the 1975-76 Estimates, was the Report of the Commonwealth Arbitration Inspectorate. The Department of Employment and Industrial Relations advised the Committee on 14 October 1976 that the report was nearing finalisation, and subsequently advised by letter that: 'It is anticipated the 1 975-76 report will be presented to the Minister early in November and depending on the printer published copies are expected to be available early in December'. The letter continued: 'As regards future reports the objective will be to seek to have the reports presented to the Minister before the Budget sittings in the year in which the report falls due'. The 1975-76 report, dated 20 December 1976, was not tabled in the Senate until 24 May 1 977. The 1 976-77 report has not yet been tabled. 
The report from which I quote was submitted in October 1 977. The report reads further: 
The Committee expected that a further explanation of the delay in production of the 1976-77 report might be forthcoming from the Department when answers to other questions raised in the course of the Committee's hearings were provided. However, the material which reached the committee on 10 October 1977 did not include any further comment on the matter. In view of the Committee's obvious interest in the presentation of the report to Parliament, the Department's omission seems curious. The Committee suggests that the Senate give consideration to deferring passage of the Vote of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations until details of progress on the 1 976-77 report are provided to the Senate. 
Every honourable senator will know that no Estimates committee reports in those terms unless it feels some degree of exasperation. It is hardly something that would be ignored. That was two years ago. If I may quote a little further- because I think it is of interest to the Senate in considering this whole matter- at pages 443 and 444 of the  Hansard  report of the proceedings of Estimate Committee F on 13 September 1977 there is reference to a question amicably and pleasantly asked by my colleague  Senator Mulvihill,  who over the years has taken an interest in the matter and I think has been particularly patient on this question. He asked: 
In view of the last exchange where  Senator Bishop  said the Department was pushing forward, how can you explain that this year and last year we have not got the Commonwealth Arbitration Inspectorate Annual Report in front of us? 
On behalf of the Department,  Mr Tregillis  stated: 
I am not sure at what stage the Report was in the course of preparation and when it would have been completed. I am not sure to what stage it is in the printing process at the moment. There is always a delay between when the Report is completed and when the final print is available and ready for tabling in Parliament. I can find out and then provide an answer, but I am not sure what stage the Report is at now. 
I feel somewhat sorry for  Mr Tregillis  because I think that others perhaps let him down. I now quote from the information provided by  Mr Tregillis  to the Committee, dated 18 October 1977. He stated: 
The Department recognises the importance of having the Reports available for examination by the Senate Estimates Committee when the Committee is considering Departmental Estimates and this is the basis for adopting the objective that Reports should be available in time for them to be tabled by the Minister during the Budget Session of Parliament. 
Unfortunately, it has not been possible to achieve the objective this year. 
I pause to say, nor in any other year, it appears. The Commonwealth Arbitration Inspectorate report for a period of eight months- 1 July 1977 to 28 February 1978- has been presented to the Senate at the end of May 1979. It is very hard to think of a reason why that should be so, and why it should be done without explanation or apology. I wish to quote from the report which was tabled today. This carries the explanation as to what has happened a little further. Somebody might say: 'Well, the Inspectorate has gone out of existence and therefore it might have been hard to find somebody who could produce the report for it '. The report states: 
The functions of the Arbitration Inspectorate were assumed by the Industrial Relations Bureau on I March 1978 with the proclamation of those sections of the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Act 1977 . . . which repealed section 125 of the Principal Act and inserted new sections concerning the functions and powers of the Bureau. The report therefore covers the period of operation by the Inspectorate from 1 July 1977 to 28 February 1978. 
It is quite obvious that there has been a continuity of the practice of people regarding with contempt the responsibility to report to the Parliament and to the people. I believe that the Senate should not permit that sort of practice to continue without taking note of it and without taking some action. It is the first time that I have taken the matter as far as this but in the past we have gently raised it through the Senate Estimates committees. I now say that I will not vote for the passage of the provision of funds for this area of activity unless a little more attention is given to obligations in relation to reporting. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it a fact that the Australian Wool Board, the Australian Wheat Board and the Australian Dairy Corporation have arranged jointly what they call a media meeting in Melbourne from 4 to 6 June 1 979? Is it also a fact that some nine interstate journalists, together with quite a large cross-section of Melbourne journalists were invited to attend the meeting? Is it a fact that the three statutory authorities have undertaken to pay all the costs, including the cost of two nights' accommodation, air fares and other travel, a cocktail party and a special dinner for the journalists attending the meeting? If the foregoing is factual, what is the real purpose behind the media meeting? Has the Minister been consulted or informed in relation to this exercise in what appears to be an attempt to obligate the particular journalists? Is this action by three statutory authorities, which habitually neglect their accountability responsibilities to the Parliament by the late presentation of their annual reports, a reason to examine further their handling of public funds? 
I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
1 ) That, if the Senate be not sitting when the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations has completed- 
Its Report on the Advance to the Minister for Finance; and 
Its Second Repon on Statutory Authorities of the Commonwealth, 
The Committee may send either or both Reports to the  President  of the Senate, or if the  President  is unavailable, to the  Deputy President,  who is authorised to give directions for their printing and circulation, and in such event the  President  or  Deputy President  shall lay each Report received upon the Table at the next sitting of the Senate. 
That the foregoing provision of this Resolution, so far as it is inconsistent with the Standing Orders have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the Standing Orders. 
To continue the debate on the Qantas Airways Limited (Loan Guarantee) Bill 1979, which is designed to enable Qantas to purchase further aircraft, I join with those honourable senators who have complimented Qantas Airways Ltd, and I state proudly that I think that we can say that Qantas does operate a fine airline. Qantas has an almost incredible safety record, of which it and Australia can be proud. Having said that, I would like to distinguish between Qantas 's operations as an airline and its operations as a property developer, which are nothing short of a national scandal. I agree with what  Senator Gietzelt  said earlier. I think that when Bills such as this, in which the Parliament is asked to provide very substantial assistance to a statutory authority or a wholly owned company of the Commonwealth, come before the Parliament quite a bit more information could be provided to the Parliament. 
One of the things I regret is that the annual reports of Qantas really are not mines of information. In fact, if one tries to get the full details of what has been happening in regard to the building which Qantas has been having erected in Sydney, one finds it very difficult to get any real material out of the annual reports. In fact, one could almost be led to the view that there is a deliberate obfuscation in relation to what is happening with that building. Let me very briefly describe the building. It is a building in the heart of Sydney- in the most expensive area of Sydney. I understand that it is a building which, if and when completed, will be something more than twice the size needed by Qantas for its purposes. Therefore, if Qantas is to recoup what is now estimated to be the likely cost of the building, it will need to let a large area of office space at a rate which is something like three or more times the going rate for office space in Sydney. 
I do not know what the ultimate cost of the building will be. We do not find any estimate of that anywhere. We do not find any information which would enable us to know that. But guesstimates appear to vary between $100m and $ 1 50m and I have even heard an amount as high as $ 1 70m being bandied about. I do not know; Qantas is not forthcoming in relation to that. But this matter has assumed the proportions of a national scandal. One might describe it, as some people have, as Sydney's second Opera House, or whatever other words might be used to describe something which has got out of hand, where the cost escalation has been incredible and where, quite obviously, the problems with respect to it are far more severe than people anticipated that they would be. I do not want in any way to buy into the endeavours to lay blame between the constructing company, the unions and the Qantas management, except to say that the ultimate responsibility to this Parliament and to the people of Australia lies with Qantas. Qantas makes the decisions; it decides what is to be done about the project. Unless it is prepared to work out some form of rationalisation in relation to the project, one imagines that it will carry a very heavy responsibility when we eventually do hear the final outcome of that ever-escalating problem. 
I believe that it would be hard to think of a good reason for one of the world 's greatest airlines departing from operating an airline, which it does so well, and starting to try to play the game of property developers. I think it would be much better for Qantas to stick to what it knows and does well and for property development to be left to others, who perhaps might burn their fingers. But if that were to happen at least publicly-owned funds would not be lost as a result of miscalculations in relation to property development. A fact that can be gained from the annual reports of Qantas is that already it is writing off millions of dollars a year in anticipated losses in relation to the building. This is before Qantas has come anywhere near completing or occupying the building. That is money which otherwise would be available for the further development of the airline or which would be available as a dividend from the earnings of the company but which is returned to Consolidated Revenue. 
Obviously, the decision to go ahead with the building was a most unfortunate one in the first place. But it may be that even more unfortunate decisions are being taken as a result of Qantas 's apparent refusal to do anything to rationalise the project, even at this late stage. I believe that there is a need for a response from the Government which indicates that it, as the shareholder, on behalf of the people of Australia, will insist on the shareholders' rights in relation to a company in getting some sort of answer from Qantas as to what is happening. The Government should require some sort of rationalisation of the project and for that to be made public so that the people of Australia will know just what is happening with their airline. I therefore invite the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney),  either tonight or in due course after he has consulted with his colleague, the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  to make some sort of public statement as to what the Government proposes to do in relation to what appears to be developing into a national scandal. 
Finally, in relation to the matter of air fares, I put forward the proposition that whilst advance purchase excursion fares have been and are of considerable assistance to some people, as the people of some nations prefer to travel in groups rather than to make single arrangements, it would be far better if we were to develop group inclusive tariffs for the Japanese, the Germans and others who prefer group travel. I believe that that is one of the most important developments which should take place next as we utilise the opportunities which have arisen out of the recently negotiated international airlines agreements. I hope that we will see the Government encouraging Qantas, and Qantas responding to that encouragement, to introduce group inclusive tariff at a very early date. Again, I compliment Qantas. As an Australian I am proud to fly with that airline. I am proud to see it represented at international airports. I am proud of Qantas as I believe it is an excellent ambassador for Australia. But I do regard it as one of the most unfortunate things that could have happened that it should have decided to extend its operations from merely operating an airline to entering into a massively disastrous property development project.  ( Quorum formed). 
in reply- It is my understanding that this practice has been developed with the consent of the whole of the Senate. It is my understanding that after consideration of a number of aspects, including those raised by  Senator Georges,  the advice is that the procedure adopted provides privilege in a similar way to which privilege would apply if the report were presented during a sitting of the Senate. I believe that it is an important practice for us to pursue. It means that the Senate committees will not be held up in getting their reports out in the way in which they have been at times. When a report is available it can be dealt with in this way and people can have an opportunity to consider it. It can be tabled as soon as the Senate resumes and any debate which people wish to have can  then  take place. It is a practice which I believe is highly desirable. I hope that we can continue it. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 4 June 1 979: 
1 ) In what Australian cities, and at what addresses do employees of the Commissioner of Taxation have: (a) sole; or (b) shared, access to public service canteens. 
What is: (a) the number of Taxation Office employees for whom each canteen caters in respect of ( 1 ) (a) and (b) above; and (b) the total number of persons for whom each canteen in category ( 1 ) ( b) caters. 
Which canteens in each category are conducted by: (a) private enterprise; (b) the Taxation Office; (c) the Treasury; (d) the Department of Finance; and (e) some other Government department or authority. 
Which canteens in each category are run on a basis of a separate accounting system. 
Where are the accounts of the canteens, for which a separate accounting system is operating, published. 
What was the profit or loss for the year ended 30 June 1978 of each canteen which is not run on a basis of a separate accounting system. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to the questions which have been asked this afternoon relating to the proposed sale of the Government's interest in the Ranger uranium project. I ask: While the Government is considering the sale of its Ranger interests, will it also, consistent with its philosophy, consider further the sale of Trans-Australia Airlines to a public listed company to be incorporated by the Commonwealth, in relation to which at least 50 per cent of the shares are offered to employees and in which the Commonwealth may retain some of the shares, and that other limited size holdings be offered to small investors? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
1 ) Is the Overseas Telecommunications Commission a Commonwealth Statutory Authority established for, and fulfilling, a public function. 
Docs that Authority publish a glossy magazine which, in February 1979, contained the articles 'Temples of Culture' and 'Sydney- more than an Opera House', as well as a series of articles and expensive photographs about matters not clearly related to the operation, or the public-funded function of, an overseas telecommunications authority; if so, how is the size of the total budget and non-budget deficit affected by such public relations exercises on the part of a Statutory Authority in a monopoly position at a time of extreme economic stringency. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 8 June 1979: 
Has the Australian Wool Corporation made a loan of approximately $ 1 .4m to Grazcos Co-operative Limited; if so: 
are the funds used for the loan part of a blend of Commonwealth and grower funds obtained pursuant to statute; 
is the issued capital of Grazcos Co-operative Limited $1,763,000; (c) what form of security was obtained in respect of the loan; (d) what was the financial position of Grazcos Co-operative Limited at the time the loan was made, and what is it now; (e) did the Corporation follow normal lending principles in granting a loan in the circumstances of Grazcos' financial position; and (f) does the fact of the loan appear in any report by the Corporation to the Parliament, and if not, why not. 
My question is not whether the Department of Defence will take my yacht on the same terms as  Mr Grubic's;  rather it is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry and refers to the replacement for the position of  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Corporation following the unfortunate death of  Mr Maiden.  In view of the importance of this position, I ask: Will the position be advertised internationally as well as nationally to endeavour to ensure that the most highly qualified person, particularly in marketing skills, will be attracted to and appointed to the position? 
I am glad that  Senator Evans  concluded his speech in the way that he did. I am glad to know that the Opposition is prepared to be reasonable. As  Senator Evans  acknowledged, there is a balancing to take place in relation to this matter. It is a question of whether, in fairness, these documents should at this stage be given the privilege which attaches to them by their incorporation in  Hansard,  which has been sought by  Senator Wriedt.  At this stage, the important points are these: First, there is the fact that the documents, as I understand it, have not been certified from the point of view of the accuracy of the translation. I regard that as probably the short end point. If the documents represented a certified translation from a person who is recognised as being acceptable to a court as a translator from the Slovenian language to the Australian language, then we would perhaps be able to debate the latter point. As I understand it, an examination of the translation makes it perfectly clear that it is not a good translation. 
Seantor  RAE- From someone who is in a position to be able to read the original document and the translation. That is what I am told. I believe that the problem can be overcome by there being sought a certified translation of the documents. Then perhaps we could see whether the other points apply. I simply make the point that the documents are not a certified translation. These documents cannot possibly be read in the original language by more than a very tiny percentage of the Australian population and, therefore, would have to be read in the translation. Before such documents are incorporated in  Hansard,  there ought to be an accurate certified translation. That is a sufficient reason for opposing  Senator Wriedt  's motion at this stage. 
There are further points to be considered, such as the damage the incorporation of these documents can do to the rights and interests of the person concerned, the effect that it may have on his rights in relation to the inquiry which is being undertaken at the moment and which affects positions which he holds, and the effect that it may have in relation to his rights to damages in relation to any publication which has already taken place. Those are questions which I do not think arise at all at this stage because we do not have a certified translation, and there should not be any attempts to incorporate the documents in  Hansard  until such time as there is. Therefore, I do not propose to debate the other points because I think that is a sufficient answer in itself. 

 -Mr President- 
 (Quorum formed). 

Government senators- Hear, hear! 

 - Mr President, I thank you and I thank honourable senators for the 'hear, hear'. After what we have been listening to I imagine that some people might feel that a change of tempo and content is called for. I hope that I can provide that and that we will not have the problem we have just experienced. I think I could be most kind to  Senator McLaren  by saying that I am glad that not too many people heard what he said. Had they done so, they would have been even more convinced than they were before that there is something wrong with the way in which he approaches the subject of politics. He reminded me of his federal parliamentary leader,  Mr Hayden,  who, in commenting on the Budget, made his most significant contribution when he told a story about himself which I believe tells a real tale. It is quite significant in the context of what the Labor Party and its leader are all about. He said: 
When I was much younger, my mother caught me walloping a donkey on the hindquarters just to see it keep braying and bucking. 
That is a quotation from the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 28 August 1979 at page 663. When I was listening to  Senator McLaren  I could think only that he is following his leader-- 
That he is the donkey and obviously his leader has been practising on him, which is what got him stirred up. 
I would like to talk about the Budget and I thank you for the invitation to do so. Having heard on Budget night what had happened in relation to tourism I was forced to say: If I die tonight the undertaker will never wipe the smile off my face'. That night tourism came of age. Tourism has been an interest of mine and of a number of other honourable senators in this place - 
On this side of the House. We tried to achieve for it the recognition which we believe it deserves and which we now believe it has attained. Tourism is one of the greatest growth industries in the world, if not the greatest growth industry in the world. It has resisted all the trials and tribulations which have resulted from the huge hike in the cost of fuel.  Senator McLaren  unfortunately has left the chamber. I wanted to try to enlighten him. He said that tourism had no future. He is a typical Labor Party knocker. He was knocking the tourist industry to which my colleague,  Senator Messner,  had referred. He said that tourism had no future because energy prices were going up and nobody could afford to travel. Energy prices for travel purposes in Australia are about half of those in most of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development countries, yet since the hike in energy and petrol costs tourism has continued to grow. It is one of the major growth industries in the world. 

 - Senator Bonner reminds me that Magnetic Island, with its mini-mokes and its many other attractions, is one of the many areas where tourism is continuing to develop. 
Let me get away from the donkey-walloper approach to politics and get on to the positives. Let me talk for a little while about tourism and this Budget. Something which was promised in 1975 by the Liberal-National Country Party coalition in its policy was that as soon as economic circumstances permitted we would introduce a depreciation allowance in respect of tourist accommodation buildings. That matter has quite a long history. It goes back as far as 1954. In 1954 the Hulme committee recommended that it ought to be introduced. It has been recommended by a variety of other bodies since then. In 1975, after the Labor Government of that era had refused to introduce it, the Liberal Party decided as part of its policy that as soon as economic circumstances permitted it would be introduced. It has now been introduced. It is a  Vh  per cent- that is, a 40-year life term- annual allowance of depreciation in respect of incomeproducing buildings such as hotels, motels, guest-houses and the like used for the accommodation of travellers. 
This is a great day for the tourist industry. It means that people can now invest in that industry with the full confidence that it has the total support, on a continuing basis, of the Federal Government. This is the breakthrough which the tourism industry has been waiting for. This is the breakthrough which will mean, I believe, that the finance sector of Australia will change the attitude which it has previously had towards providing funds for tourism development. From the time that this Budget was introduced anybody who is interested in any way in tourism can look forward to the fact that tourism has come of age. It is a real industry. It is an acknowledged industry in which people can invest with confidence. I believe that many people will be taking advantage of that. Already I have had reports from 
Queensland of a whole series of projects which will now go ahead. These are building projects in the various areas of Queensland's tourist attractions. I am told that several hundred million dollars already are likely to be spent in Sydney on the provision of good accommodation in that city. That city is strained already from the point of view of good accommodation. I am told from almost every sector of Australia that this is the encouragement which people have been waiting for. 
Having received that encouragement, what will happen now is that there will be a fairly significant investment in building in the tourist industry. Building provides jobs, as my colleague,  Senator Messner,  said. This is one of the job creating provisions in this Budget. The building industry, I believe, will obtain a tremendous fillip out of this provision and flowing from it will be a large number of jobs in the tourist industry, which is a fairly labour intensive industry. That is one of the reasons that it is so important that tourism has received the recognition and the assistance which it has received in the Budget. It will provide jobs. Technology does not take the place of a smile. It might take the place of somebody who is working on a production line or of somebody who is doing some other son of job in a manufacturing sense, but it does not take the place of the person who works in the industry and who provides a service to travellers and to tourists. We are going to have increasing job opportunities as the increase in tourism takes place as a result of the lead which this Government has given. I hope that the State governments also will follow this through because they have a very large and significant part to play in relation to tourism development in this country. 
I thank the honourable senator for the interjection. I was coming to that later, but I am happy to come to it now. Of all the garbage we have heard from some people in relation to this Budget, the matter referred to in the interjection is probably the subject of the greatest amount of garbage. We have been told that as a result of the increase in air navigation charges air fares will increase dramatically. Does  Senator Sibraa  know that over a full year- not this year, but over a full year- the increase in air navigation charges, taking as an example the fare from Melbourne to Launceston, which is one of the most important tourist routes, will add less that the cost of a Sunday newspaper to the fare? 
The Australian Labor Party has led us to believe that there has been a massive increase. I emphasise that over a full year the increase in air navigation charges will add less than the cost of a Sunday newspaper to a fare of approximately $50. That is supposed to be a massive retrograde step. What absolute nonsense! Let me continue to talk about air fares for a moment before returning to the Budget provisions. I do not mind which way I deal with matters, but having started to talk about air fares I will continue to do so for a moment. In this regard I pay tribute to the activities of the Minister for Transport,  Mr Peter  Nixon, in particular. I pay tribute also to the Minister for Industry and Commerce,  Mr Phillip  Lynch, for the work he has done. As a result of their activities, the number of visitors coming to Australia in the first six months of this year has increased by 28 per cent. Labor Party senators are attempting to say by interjection that that is disastrous. Given the 28 per cent increase in the first six months of this year, I believe that the increase we can look forward to in the future is untold. I would like to have a lot more time to develop that argument. I will return to it in a moment. 
Let me talk about domestic fares for a minute. Domestic fares have been restructured in a way which now means that the average fare being paid in Australia as a result of the introduction of advance purchase excursion fares, super-APEX fares, stand-by fares and other variations of fares is less than it was 12 months or two year ago. Apparently this is one of the things which the Labor Party cannot understand: What has happened is that the people who want regularity of service and first class service from the airlines are paying more for it; the average traveller is paying less. The persons who go on a holiday on a package deal or super-APEX, the young persons or others who can afford to run the risk involved in stand-by arrangements of perhaps having to miss one flight and go on the next, are all getting remarkably cheaper fares than they were getting a year or two ago. What has happened is that there has been a revolution in Australian domestic air travel. It is a revolution which is in the interests of the consumer. It has happened as a result of co-operation between this Government and the domestic airlines. 
There are so many good things to talk about in relation to tourism. Let me come back to some of the things which arose out of the Budget. The Australian Tourist Commission, which is principally involved in promoting Australia overseas as a tourist destination, has had its funds increased by nearly 100 per cent. I do not think that the Labor Party senators can laugh or cackle about that or say anything other than 'well done' to the Government for making a 93 per cent increase in the amount allocated to the Australian Tourist Commission. This will enable us to make sure that with the introduction of much cheaper international air fares Australia, as a tourist destination, will receive the maximum promotion. I look forward to seeing as a result not just the 28 per cent increase in visitors which has taken place already but a much more marked increase after the Australian Tourist Commission's activities in promoting Australia as a tourist destination have been carried out for a year or two. 
I keep getting interjections about Qantas Airways Ltd, some of which I reply to, others I do not bother replying to. Let me reiterate what I said in this chamber at, I think, the close of the last parliamentary session in May or early June. I believe that Qantas is the greatest airline in the world. I believe that we have every reason, as far as its airline operations are concerned, to be proud of it. But as far as property development is concerned, I just wish it stuck to running an airline. It is building a Taj Mahal in Sydney and it is a disgrace. 
Let me go on with some of the other aspects of this Budget. Provision is made in the Budget for $500,000 to be spent over the next two years on a domestic tourism promotion campaign. I welcome that measure also. One of the things which I believe we need to do is to encourage that 50 per cent of Australians who have never been tourists, who have never been travellers, to travel. Fifty per cent is a figure which amazes a lot of people, but the result of a survey showed that 50 per cent of Australians have not spent time away from home which would enable them to be categorised as tourists. There is a tremendous domestic market just waiting to be tapped as well as a huge overseas market. I believe it is important that the Australian Tourist Commission be able to get itself involved in working in co-operation with the States in developing a greater appreciation of Australia for Australians. We find that $300,000 has been allocated for special research in relation to marine services and technologies associated with the Great Barrier Reef, which is one of the world's major attractions. I believe it is one of the most important areas of the world. That is to supplement the activities which are taking place through the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority, which is centred in Townsville and which I had the pleasure to visit a little while ago and to hear about some of the plans for the development and preservation of the reef. 
I am delighted to refer to the fact that the Government has seen fit to set in train something which will make a tremendous difference to Tasmania and, I believe, to the preservation of Australian history. I refer to the proposals concerning Port Arthur in south-eastern Tasmania. Already it is a major tourist attraction. But unfortunately a lot of the buildings, some of which were damaged by fire in about 1929 or 1930 and which no steps have been taken to preserve, are starting to deteriorate rapidly. That area is an attraction because of its historical significance. Let me put this point in relation to its historical significance: Its real historical significance is not that it was a horror place but that the way in which it was conducted was the greatest advance that had ever taken place in any gaol in the world. At the time that Port Arthur was constructed it represented a major advance. It has a place in the penal history of the world. It should be preserved so that it can be seen and compared with what was happening in other parts of Australia, in other parts of the world, at the time that the model prison was developed. We can now look back and say what was done to people was horrific, but when we look at it in the context of the day we see that it was a major step forward compared with what was happening to people who were kept in the hulks anchored in the Thames and at other places around Europe. Compared with the way in which people were kept in prisons in England- horrible though it now seems to us- it must have represented a major step forward to the people who had experienced the prisons of Europe in those days. 
Work urgently needs to be done to Port Arthur. I am delighted that our Government has recognised that fact. Provision of $400,000 has been made in this Budget to start the work. It has been made on the basis of two Commonwealth dollars for every one Tasmanian dollar. So it is of major benefit to Tasmania. The work is not just being left to the Tasmanian Government because, as we know, the Tasmanian Government does not do a great deal unless it gets a bit of encouragement in one way or another from the Commonwealth. 
We also find an allocation of $2m has been made for the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service. This is a matter of considerable encouragement to the Northern Territory, which is developing a major tourist industry. The Government members tourism committee was there just a couple of weeks ago. The committee has been active not only in relation to depreciation allowances but also in relation to the development of Uluru Village at Ayers Rock and the urgent need to take some steps. More than 30 reports had been made in relation to the proposed Uluru Village at Ayers Rock, but nobody had grasped the nettle. I am delighted to know that decisions have been taken, money has been provided, and the development is now going ahead. The situation that had been reached at Ayers Rock was most unfortunate from the point of view of the very large number of tourists who visit there every year. The road in to Ayers Rock from the main north-south road is being sealed and the whole area is being developed in other ways. The village was suffering from overcrowding and is now to be moved away from the Rock to a new site, where proper environmental protection can be undertaken and a fine village will be built to cater for the needs of the tourists. 
An amount of $130,000 is being provided to the Bureau of Industry Economics, and I should like to refer briefly to its activities. Professor Johns and his team have done a very valuable job in research work relating to tourism. They were able to show what the tourist industry had always believed but many people, including Treasury, had never accepted; that is, that the tourist industry in Australia is a major industry. They were able to demonstrate, for instance, that it is of greater economic significance than the motor vehicle industry, and I think the matter is put in some sort of perspective when those two industries are compared. The team was able to demonstrate that every tourist dollar spent is divided between over 100 other industries. The tourist dollar goes around in the economy more than virtually any other dollar spent. Professor Johns and his team are going to do quite a bit more work to overcome an unfortunate situation. Very little information on the tourist industry, other than the 1973-74 survey, has been available to enable people to work out just what benefits can be obtained and which way policies ought to be directed. 
I am glad that the Government is going to take another step- one which will cost only a relatively small amount; I think from memory something like $36,000- and that is that Australia is going to join the world tourism organisation. That is something which has been advocated for some time by those who are really interested in tourism. Great benefits are to be obtained for Australia as a potential major tourist destination in the world through its membership of that organisation. 
Another matter which I think is not understood sufficiently by a lot of people in the tourist industry, and certainly no credit is given for it by people on the other side of the chamber, is that the Government has included the travel and tourist industry within the Export Market Development Grants Scheme. This is a tremendous opportunity for people involved in the industry to get overseas and promote Australia. What better way to supplement the work of the Australian Tourist Commission and Qantas- I pay credit to Qantas for its overseas promotion work- than for people to be able to spend their own money, to spend a dollar to make a dollar and to be provided with a considerable subsidy from the Commonwealth Government. An amount of $3.2m has been provided for this year, and I hope that the amount required under the scheme will be a whole lot more than that. If the tourist industry gets out and uses the opportunities that are available to it under this scheme it will make a tremendous difference to its own and Australia 's participation in the tourist industry. As I have said, tourism is one of the world 's fastest growing industries, and I think that Australia has every opportunity to join in that growth. 
 While talking of tourism I want to mention something that has not been done yet but which I believe should be done. I refer to the development of some of the circuits available to the people who live closest to us. While we are opening markets in North America, Europe and Japan, we should not forget that we have a very large population, including an increasingly affluent one, much closer to us. For instance, in Taiwan the growth rate last year was 34 per cent and the inflation rate 6 per cent, which is not a bad sort of development rate. An increasing number of people with increasing living standards can afford to travel. They would be most interested to come to a country such as Australia, and particularly to the northern part to see the mining areas and the Pilbara region, to go through the Top End, perhaps across to the Barrier Reef and then out. We need to open up circuits that are available to them. 
If we took a direct line from Japan to Taiwan to the Philippines and through Jakarta to Karratha, we would have a relatively short trip that opens up a population of 300 million people who could travel in a way in which they cannot travel at the moment. We just have to get things organised. I suggest that that is an area that needs further development. I hope that we can do quite a bit, in co-operation with China Airlines of Taiwan and with Philippine Airlines. I have had discussions with the people who run those airlines and they are both keen to develop the sort of thing I am talking about. I think such a trip would be of tremendous interest to those hundreds of millions of people, not all of whom can afford to travel, of  course,  although a considerable percentage of them could. 
My time is running out, so I will leave the subject of tourism to be developed a little further at another time and refer briefly to some of the things that have been done for Tasmania in this Budget. Again, I regard the Budget as being good not only in broad terms but also in relation to the particular interest areas that I have. I am delighted to find that the Tasmanian Fish Centre in Hobart, notwithstanding the protestations of the Labor Minister in Tasmania, has received $234,000 in this Budget. Apparently the Minister is complaining that it did not get enough. Some $200,000 has been provided for the development of a pilot industrial site at Legana, $3,000 for the re-equipment of the Launceston precision tool annexe, and the $400,000 I have already mentioned for Port Arthur. All of those things are important to Tasmania and to Tasmania's development. However, one matter of greater importance is the continuation of the freight equalisation scheme. Whenever I hear people say that that was something to do with the Labor Party I feel like - 
I feel like getting agitated; thank you. I want to go back into the history of that scheme. It arose out of the recommendations of a committee of this Senate. It is part of the value of this Senate and of the way in which it operates. I get so sick of hearing people such as  Senator McLaren  knocking the Senate as an institution, as he was doing a little earlier. It was out of the reference to a Senate committee of the Australian National Line freight rates to and from Tasmania that the whole freight equalisation scheme arose. It was through that reference that the scheme was developed, and I am delighted to say that the reference to the committee was a Liberal Party initiative. I am not saying that the Labor Party had nothing to do with it. I am saying that it was an initiative which came out of the Liberal Party; it was an initiative which was developed by a Senate committee and was carried on from there. 
The Maritime College is to receive nearly $ 10m under the current Budget. The college represents another major development for Tasmania which came as a result of an initiative of the Liberal Party, notwithstanding that from time to time it is claimed that that is not so. When I heard  Senator Wriedt  say earlier tonight that he had been trying for years to get some commitment out of the Liberal Party in relation to the second Hobart bridge, I wondered what on earth he had been doing. In 1974 that commitment was given by the then Leader of the Liberal Party. It was repeated by the then Leader of the Liberal Party in March 1975 and repeated again in November 1975. It has been a continuing commitment of the Liberal Party from the time it was first announced in 1974. It was our initiative and not that of the Labor Party, and I find it very hard to understand how  Senator Wriedt  could have the gall to come in here and claim some sort of credit for the Labor Party and some sort of criticism for the present Government. I compliment the Government on the Budget. I am delighted to be able to talk about things in which I am interested and have developed. I wish that I had longer to speak because there are so many other things in the Budget about which one could talk. 
Debate interrupted. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources or, alternatively, the Minister representing the Minister for Special Trade Representations. As that is the same person in this chamber, I invite an answer in either capacity. What progress has been made towards the establishment of a trade office in Taiwan on a similar basis to that used by the United States, the United Kingdom, Japan and many other major trading nations? I ask this question particularly in the light of our growing trade with that rapidly developing nation and the unnecessary impediment and inconvenience which the absence of a trade office constitutes for those wishing to engage in such trade. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1979: 
What stage has been reached in the preliminary consideration being given to the establishment of a National Engineering Laboratory. 
What an extraordinary afternoon we have been treated to. The matter of public importance that we are debating is the growing discrepancy in incomes in Australia under the Fraser Government. I repeat: The growing discrepancy in incomes in Australia under the Fraser Government. What did  Senator Button,  who raised this matter, talk about? He talked about doctors and lawyers. It was almost like a hate session of some sort, or perhaps it is just that he was upset that he had left his former profession and come into politics and decided that he would have a go at those who are left behind. I really could not understand what his speech had to do with the subject matter, nor could I understand what  Senator Gietzelt  was talking about. However,  Senator Walsh  was quite clear. He was true to form. He spent most of his time on a rather vicious attack on the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  retelling unsubstantiated stories as reported in the Press. What on earth that had to do with the question we are supposed to be debating I am damned if I know. 

 Senator Wriedt got a little closer to the mark, and I congratulate him for that. He talked about the subject to some extent; he was the first  speaker  from the Opposition side who even approached the subject. However, it is five years since the publication of the figures on which he based most of his speech and it would have been several years before that that they were gathered and processed. Certainly they show what we all know, that is, that there is and always has been in Australia a discrepancy in incomes between the lowest income-earning members of the community and the highest income-earning members. But I do not think the figures show anything more than we already know and they certainly do not prove that in the past four years under the present Government there has been a growing discrepancy in incomes. When  Senator Wriedt  went on to state that we as a Government had increased taxation by $23,000m he made a rather serious error. I think he meant to say that we had increased taxation to $23,000m. The fact is that during the three years of the preceding Government, if we are going to make these comparisons- I think they are somewhat odious, but let me get the record straight - 
I am about to quote from Table 6 of the Budget Papers. In the three years from 1973-74, when taxation revenue was $10,873m, to 1975-76, when it was $16,843m, there was an increase of 54.9 per cent. That is a fact, as will be seen from a table which in a moment I will seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard.  In the first three years of the present Government the total taxation revenue rose from $ 1 9,642m in 1976-77 to $23,288m in 1978-79, which was an increase of 1 8.6 per cent. So we are comparing an increase of 54.9 per cent in the first three Budgets with an increase of 1 8.6 per cent in the following three Budgets. That increase is shown in table 6 on page 262 of Budget Paper No. 1 . 1 seek leave to incorporate the table in  Hansard. 
I am seeking leave to incorporate table 6 on page 262 of Budget Paper No. 1 . 
Rather than have my time taken up I withdraw my request to have the document incorporated. Anyone who doubts the accuracy of the figures I have given can seek them out at page 262 of Budget Paper No. 1 for the current year. 
I believe that what we have witnessed this afternoon, with the exception of the positive part of the contribution by  Senator Wriedt,  is an example of the thinking which gives rise to the description of the dead hand of socialism. The speeches were divisive, reactionary, outdated and in no way contributed to overcoming such problems as may exist within Australia. The idea which seemed to be behind the thinking of the majority of the Labor Party's speakers was that if they attacked some tall poppies they would shake out a little pollen and everybody would be happy. I cannot imagine why that should be so, any more than I can imagine that the theory that government interference inevitably improves an economy has any basic validity which can be demonstrated. In fact, the socialist parties of Europe are far ahead of the socialist party in Australia- the Australian Labor Party- because they have virtually abandoned the idea that by continually interfering with an economy and manipulating everything governments can do better for the people than the people would otherwise do in a free enterprise economy. 
In any event, the people of Australia have relatively recently expressed their view in relation to government control of incomes. It was put to them by way of referendum and they rejected it overwhelmingly. In the context of this debate it is relevant to remind honourable senators that the people of Australia have expressed a view about giving governments control over the structure of incomes and have rejected that idea. What we need to overcome our problems in Australia is a further expression of the private enterprise principle of incentive so long as we do not overlook the role which I believe all of us accept falls on government, that is, to ensure that the weaker or less fortunate members of the community are protected. Unless a government has the means to be able to protect them what protection can it give? Productivity leads to the creation of enough bread to distribute in the community, but if the bread has not been produced it cannot be distributed. The idea that seemed to be inherent in some of the earlier speeches from the Opposition this afternoon was that if they divisively and offensively attacked some of the people who are receiving some of the higher incomes then somehow they would cure some of the problems of Australia. That is obviously garbage. 
The tax strike which we are suffering at the moment is an indication that the discouragement of the strong will not strengthen the weak. I think it is accepted in most parts of the modern world that we do not produce more by attacking the producers; we do not produce more in an economy such as ours by saying: 'We will take away the incentive from those who are willing to produce extra efforts, work harder and have greater capacities' and then equalise everybody. That simply equalises everybody down. 
That is the sort of approach that was being put.  Senator Wriedt  can say that that is not the argument. I am glad to hear him say that. The impression that was being given was that somehow, by attacking the higher income people, one succeeds in covering the problems of the economy. 
Let me conclude by showing what nonsense is the claim that there has been growing discrepancy in incomes in Australia under the Fraser Government. The 1974-75 report of the Commissioner of Taxation stated that 2.8 million individual taxpayers in Australia- approximately half of the taxpayers- were in the taxable income bracket of $3,200 to $6,400 per annum. They were the middle block in the total tax paying public of Australia. The 1977-78 report of the Taxation Commissioner showed that the same percentage- 2.8 million individual taxpayerswas in a taxable income bracket of $7,000 to $16,000 per annum. In other words, the income of the average taxpayer in Australia- I take the median between the two- has gone from $4,500 to nearly $12,000 per annum at a time when inflation has not nearly doubled. The fact that in 1974-75 there were 35,000 taxpayers on incomes over $20,000 whereas in 1977-78 there were only 38,000 taxpayers on incomes over $30,000- in other words, if we increase the figure by 50 per cent for the high income bracket we have about the same number of taxpayers in that bracket- shows the nonsense of this claim. It does not show that there is no case for doing something more about the lower income people in the community, but it does show that the Labor Party's motion is nonsense. 
I seek leave to make a statement and, as I will explain, to move a motion in relation to the report. 
Leave granted. 
Honourable senators will note that the report which has been tabled by the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  is an interim annual report for the year ended 30 November 1 978. In fact that report contains no financial statements whatsoever. The operations of the Australian Wheat Board are of very large dimension running into hundreds of millions of dollars. It is a matter of interest and of some concern that the financial statements are not available. There is no explanation why they are not available. From my search so far it appears that the last financial statements presented to this chamber by the Board were those for the year ended 30 November 1976. It appears that for the last two years the financial statements have not been available. This is a matter which has been discussed by the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations. By arrangement, I seek leave to move a motion to refer the report to that Committee. 
Leave granted. 
I move: 
That (he interim annual report of the Australian Wheat Board for the year ended 30 November 1978 be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations for investigation and report. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport: Is it a fact that very great concern is being expressed by fishermen, other small boat operators, conservationists, search and rescue operators and many other people about the proposed conversion of the Maatsuyker Island lighthouse in the south-west of Tasmania to automatic and the withdrawal of the existing staff? Does one of the stated reasons for that proposal relate to cost? Is it a fact that the fortnightly mail and supplies transport by helicopter is operated at a cost of $60,000 per annum? Were tenders called for the provision of that service? If not, why not? Is it a fact that the servicing could be provided by a suitable large fishing boat for less than half that amount- that is, for less than $30,000 per annum? Will tenders be called next time? Will the decision to withdraw manning of the lighthouse be reviewed in the light of any lowered cost and also in the light of the unique importance of that lighthouse as a manned meteorological observation station and a warning relay station in an area of heavy fishing, poor radio reception and extraordinarily bad weather? 
by leave- I move: 
Thai the Senate take note ofthe papers and the statement. 
I would just take the opportunity to point out that the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations has a reference, which it received last year from the Senate, in relation to the use of the Advance to the Minister for Finance. 1 can indicate to the Senate that the Committee has completed its consideration of that and the report is with the printer. It is hoped that it will be out later this week. If not, it will be out next week, depending on when it is able to be produced. 
It does seem to me that there are a number of matters of considerable importance to the Senate which have been referred to in the statement of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  It is unfortunate that in the past the Senate has not tended to debate the AuditorGeneral's report regarding the use of the advance to the Minister for Finance. It has awaited the consideration of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts report, which usually does not come out for quite some time, and the matter just has not found its way back into the Senate for debate. 
I hope that consideration can be given to discussing at an early stage the statement just made by the Minister, together with the AuditorGeneral's report and the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations in relation to the use of the Advance to the Minister for Finance. These are matters of very considerable importance to the Senate in its role as a house of review and in relation to the activities of its Estimates committees. I do not want the fact that some important developments have taken place, and are taking place, to pass unnoticed. I ask that the debate be resumed at an early opportunity. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
With regard to the interim statement of the Australian Egg Board 's activities for 1978-79 and the interim report of the Australian Dairy Corporation 1979, I seek leave to make a statement. 
Leave granted. 
As yet I have not been able to obtain an explanation why these are an interim statement in one case and an interim report in the other case. It may be that the recommendations of the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations in relation to the presentation of interim reports where final reports could not be made available within a reasonable time are being followed. If so, those responsible are to be commended. However, if interim statements are presented because there is some difficulty in presenting final statementsfor instance, because the Auditor-General is not satisfied with the statements which have been prepared or for some other reason- I believe that it would be desirable that the Minister presenting them should make to the Senate a statement giving the reason why they are interim reports and not final reports.  Senator Chaney  made it clear that the report from the Australian Electoral Office is a final report, except for the fact that it is not in final form because it will take several months to print. That seems to me to be a commendable case of making information available to the Senate before it deals with the Estimates so that the information can be taken into account. 
As opposed to that, if it is a similar sort of report to that which we had last week relating to the Australian Wheat Board report in which there was a situation where an interim report was presented, without any explanation and without financial statements, but at the same time there was published an annual report not stated to be interim, and in a completely different and glossy form made available apparently to others but not to the Senate, and again still without explanation, then I believe there are matters which require some further investigation. What I wanted to say was that these interim reports are a matter for either commendation or investigation. Until I have the opportunity to see them and discuss them with the committee, I am not sure which it is. I wanted to make the point that they have not been overlooked. We would like to have the opportunity either to commend or to investigate. 
-Further to  Senator Cavanagh  's expression of concern, could I draw his attention to the last paragraph of the statement which has been incorporated in  Hansard  by  Senator Chaney.  The statement reads:  1 have prepared a statement which lists each of the Standing Committee's recommendations and the current position concerning those recommendations. Copies of this statement were distributed to honourable senators when it was tabled by my colleague in the House of Representatives. Further copies are available in the Senate records office. 
This statement was tabled last week in the House of Representatives, and to the best of my knowledge everybody received last week an opportunity to read the statement in the  Hansard  if they did not hear it, and had circulated to their office a copy of the steps being taken. It does seem to me that whilst I would perhaps in other circumstances agree with what  Senator Cavanagh  has said, what  Senator Chaney  has done is perfectly reasonable. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Is it a fact that the Tasmanian Budget provides for an 1 1.8 per cent increase in revenue spending and a 9 per cent increase in the capital works program? If that is a fact, are those amounts higher than the inflation rate and in real terms do they constitute a growth in the funds available to the Tasmanian Government in the current year? 
by leave- I wish to make a very brief personal explanation.  Senator Button  said that I had fussed for years about the hire of pot plants by Government departments. The history of the matter is simply this: It was referred by a Senate Estimates Committee to the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations to investigate and report on, which the Committee did. 
My question - 
It is not on the same subject. In fact, it is on one that is far more interesting and rewarding, I trust, from the point of view of the answer. I ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications whether it is a fact that the Government has announced an increase in licence fees for marine band radios to $37 per annum? Is it also a fact that land-based CB radios are licensed for only $25? Since marine radios play a vital role in relation to safety, including weather information and warnings, position reporting, distress calls and the like, and can greatly enhance safety at sea and reduce the cost of searches, will the Minister review the decision and reduce the marine radio licence fee to that which applies to land-based CB radios? 
by leave- Once again, we have a situation in which a longdelayed report has been presented to the Senate without an explanation being given of the reason for the delay. It may be that the report contains an explanation of the delay. But I indicate to the Senate that when I do have a chance to look at the report, if it does not contain an explanation I will seek leave to move that the matter be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on 
Finance and Government Operations for investigation of the reasons for the delay. 
200 NAUTICAL MILE AUSTRALIAN FISHING ZONE 
by leave- I merely wish to draw the attention of honourable senators to the fact that the report is for the year 1977-78, which means that some 15 months have now elapsed since the conclusion of the period to which it relates. There may be some good reason why it is so late. I simply indicate that the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations would wish to look at the matter and, if necessary, take further steps in the Senate with a view to investigating the reasons for the delay. 
In speaking to the Navigation Amendment Bill and the associated Bills, I want to mention briefly a number of matters which are not referred to directly in the Bills but in relation to which I hope at some later stage we may see some action. The first matter concerns the lighthouse at the southwest of Tasmania known as Maatsuyker Island. Maatsuyker Island is in an area where it would be fair to say that the weather conditions can be among the most extreme that can be experienced for shipping and maritime endeavours. It is a very rich fishing ground. Maatsuyker Island is the first piece of land that people coming from South America and South Africa under the mainland of Australia are likely to strike. The first lighthouse they strike is the Maatsuyker Island lighthouse. This is an area of southwestern Tasmania where there is virtually no other habitation other than some people living at 
Port Davey itself. With all of those situations, it is believed by many people in Tasmania- by many of the fishermen, seamen and the people who are concerned- that the unmanning policy being pursued by the Government in relation to lighthouses around Australia is one which should be varied at least in this instance. 
It is also relevant to bear in mind that in this area radio reception is notoriously bad, it being interfered with by the topography of the very rugged area of south-western Tasmania. The cost of maintaining this lighthouse would be relatively minimal if it helped to avoid or speed up some search and rescue operations. Bearing in mind the relatively heavy use of the area by fishing boats, the nature of the weather and the difficulty in communication, the services of the lighthouse keeper at Maatsuyker Island can make a tremendous difference. This matter has been the subject of a number of representations to the Government by various people. I understand that at the moment the State government is considering what it should do. 
I will summarise briefly what has been said in a booklet put out by the Tasmanian Conservation Trust. The Trust sets out the reasons why it believes the Maatsuyker Island lighthouse should remain manned. It makes seven major points. They are: 
Keepers ensure protection of the island's flora and fauna, which have important features due to the island's history of isolation and low fire frequency. 
Keepers provide detailed weather reports to the Bureau of Meteorology, local fishermen and light aircraft. 
Keepers have provided a radio relay service to firefighters and search and rescue operators. An extension of this capacity to relay communications would be invaluable to fishermen, yachtsmen, bushwalkers and grounded aircraft. 
Keepers ensure protection of the valuable archaeological sites remaining from regular visits by aborigines to the island. 
The lightstation itself, particularly the mechanism by which the present light is operated, is of great historical interest, and should be maintained. At the time of publication, the haulage way, houses and lighthouse are listed on the interim register of the Australian Heritage Commission. 
The lightstation could serve as a haven for vessels in distress. 
The lightstation already plays an important role in coastal surveillance and this could be expanded. 
The booklet also summarises the attitude taken by the Professional Fishermen's Association of Tasmania which has made frequent representations to me and, I believe, to other Tasmanian members of the Federal Parliament in relation to this matter. The Professional Fishermen's Association has been particularly outspoken in its opposition to the unmanning program. It states: 
Forty-two per cent of the total State's abalone and 72 per cent of the State 's rock lobster catch are taken in the area from Cape Sorell to South East Cape. 
Maatsuyker Island is in about the centre of that length of coastline. The Association states further: 
More specifically, 20 per cent of the State's abalone catch and 10 per cent of the rock lobster catch are taken within sight of Maatsuyker Island. As well the area is presently being explored as a squid fishing, tuna fishing and trawl ground. 
The fishermen consider the presence of keepers on the island to be of extreme importance for the following reasons. 
Communication of weather conditions- in particular the swell and the state of the sea. This frequently results in considerable savings by fishermen who base their decision to embark on a trip to the South- West on the lightkeeper's reports. 
The island represents a haven for vessels in distress and the keepers can provide emergency supplies, medical treatment from a Flying Doctor kit, communication of problems to Hobart, and assistance in medical evacuation from the island 's helipad. 
Keepers can assist in the surveillance of foreign fishing vessels. 
Keepers ensure that the light is absolutely reliable. 
These are regarded as matters of great importance by the people who have to work and operate in those at times extremely difficult conditions. I hope that while the Senate is considering amendments to the Lighthouses Act it may pay more than passing attention to the policy adopted by the Department of Transport of unmanning lighthouses, in particular the Maatsuyker Island lighthouse. Recently I took up this matter in the chamber by way of a number of questions, and I have received a reply from the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  I take the Opportunity to indicate the details of the reply which I received. I asked: 
Is it a fact that very great concern is being expressed by fishermen, other small boat operators, conservationists, search and rescue operators and many other people about the proposed conversion of the Maatsuyker Island lighthouse in the south-west of Tasmania to automatic and the withdrawal of the existing staff? 
The answer was: 
Over recent years there have been many representations to me expressing concern about the proposed unmanning of Maatsuyker Lightstation. 
The second question was: 
Does one of the stated reasons for that proposal relate to cost? 
The answer was: 
Yes, the Commonwealth network of marine navigational aids is being modernised and upgraded in accordance with a 5 Year Plan. The Plan is based on a goal of zero real-cost increase and automation followed by unmanning of several stations is an integral part of achieving that goal. 
The third question applied to whether the island is serviced fortnightly by a helicopter at a cost of $60,000 per annum, to which the answer was: 
The service is provided by helicopter but the annual cost is more in the order of $30,000 per annum. 
I am not quite sure what 'more in the order of $30,000 ' means, but presumably it means more than $30,000 but not as much as $60,000 and something closer to $30,000. But I cannot take it much further. I asked whether tenders were called for the provision of the service and the answer was yes. I asked: ls it a fact that the servicing could be provided by a suitable large fishing boat Tor less than hair that amount- that is, Tor less than $30,000 per annum? 
The answer was: 
A large fishing boat could provide the service but costs would be similar and flexibility would be reduced due to increased lead times. 
I pause there because I understand that the owner of one fishing boat, known as the  Kathleen Del Mar,  has sought to tender for this service. He has said that he could operate the service for $30,000 or possibly less on a regular fortnightly basis. The vessel is substantial and could readily undertake the work. I take this opportunity to say that if cost is an important factor, on the face of it this is one way in which the cost could be reduced. I am also told by that fisherman that inquiries of the Department of Transport in Hobart drew forth no eager response- in fact virtually a nil response. It may be that there is a lack of enthusiasm for some reason unknown and unstated in these answers. I asked: 
Will tenders bc called next time? 
The answer was: 
Yes, if necessary, when the current contract expires. 
I asked whether, in the light of the unique importance of that lighthouse as a manned meteorological observation station and warning relay station in an area of heavy fishing, poor radio reception and extremely bad weather, the decision could be reviewed, to which the answer was: 
The final decision to unman is being delayed while the Tasmanian Government prepares a report which has been promised to me soon. 1 should think that the report, if it is forthcoming, will canvass the issues you have mentioned. 
The letter from the Minister goes on to state: 
The decision to automate Maatsuyker Light will have primary regard to the station's main function: that is, an aid to marine navigation. None of the submissions received so far has recognised this fact. However, my Department is very much aware of the several peripheral benefits which accrue from  a  station being manned and these factors will be taken into account. 
You will recall that the provision and maintenance of all the Commonwealth's marine navigational aids is funded entirely by the shipping industry through the Government 's Light Dues Levy. The Commonwealth is obliged to limit increases in that Levy to the absolute minimum by effecting cost saving measures wherever possible. The automation and unmanning of Maatsuyker Lightstation will save in direct cost about $50,000 per annum. 
It should be noted that negotiations are progressing with the Tasmanian Department of National Parks and Wildlife for them to take over free occupancy of buildings on Maatsuyker should they eventually wish to station a Ranger there. Provision of such an officer would, incidently, satisfy most of the peripheral benefits mentioned in submissions so far, all of which are matters primarily within State responsibility 
Safety at sea is a matter of Commonwealth and State responsibility. I believe that for too long we have been approaching the questions of navigational aids, position-fixing assistance, the provision of meteorological advice and recordings, the provision of radio relays and all of these other things on a too-compartmentalised basis rather than looking at the overall situation. As the result of the historical basis on which the provision of lighthouses was to be paid for by light dues, the Government, in fulfilling what ought to be its total task in relation to navigation and the other matters that I have mentioned, has been saying: 'If the major shipowners have to pay light dues they should have the primary say as to what sort of navigational aids should be provided and when they have that say, with all the automation that is available in the major ships of the world today, that is all that is necessary'. But this overlooks entirely that Australia has just expanded its off-shore control to a 200-mile economic zone and that Australia has growing maritime and fishing industries which use smaller vessels than those operated by contributors to the light dues. I do not know whether to date any step has been taken to inquire into the extent to which professional fishermen and others would be prepared to contribute in some way, but I see no reason why there should not be a broadening of the approach which has been adopted by the Government in relation to this question. 
It is the overwhelming view of almost everybody, except a few shipowners and the Department of Transport apparently, that Maatsuyker Island lighthouse is of major importance and should be retained because of the unique nature of the circumstances in which it exists. I hope that the Government can adopt a rather more broadminded attitude, possibly look at the question from the point of view of the functions which the lighthouse can serve and then seek funding partly from what it would cost to run an automated lighthouse, partly from the Department of Science and the Environment from the point of view of the preservation of the environment and the provision of meteorological information, partly from the point of the funding of a lifesaving station, in effect, and for various other purposes, so that together all these sources can provide the necessary funds to keep the manning of this station. The impression that I have to this date is that the approach has been far too limited in relation to the importance or otherwise of retaining the manning of lighthouses generally and this one in particular. 
That became rather evident at a seminar which was conducted in Melbourne on 2 March this year under the auspices of the Victorian Institute of Marine Science. The matter of navigation and position-fixing facilities in marine areas off south-eastern Australia was discussed. At that seminar the Commonwealth Government's attitude was made clear by a departmental officer who made the point that the Commonwealth Government's Maritime Services Advisory Committee is basically the representative of the people who pay for the provision of those facilities. Apparently relatively little of the taxpayers funds is involved in the provision of the facilities. Represented at the seminar was a broad cross-section of organisations involved with the maritime industry, such as the Victorian Institute of Marine Science, and various people related to fisheries interests, including the Tasmanian Fisheries Development Authority, the New South Wales State Fisheries, the Lakes Entrance Fishermen's Co-operative, the commercial fisheries section of the Victorian department; shipping interests, including the Broken Hill Pty Company Ltd, the Merchant Service Guild of Australia and Australian Offshore Services; the oil industry, which is concerned with oil exploration and position-fixing in Bass Strait; hydrographic and surveying interests, including the Public Works Department, the naval hydrographer, the Department of Surveying at the University of Melbourne; and recreational marine users and various other people. At the seminar, after consideration, there was unanimous agreement that the following action should be taken: 
1 ) The Commonwealth Government's Maritime Services Advisory Committee (Navaids) should include representation from various marine interests other than the commercial shipping industry. It is particularly important for the fishing industry to bc represented on the Advisory Committee. 
In view of the intensive use of Bass Strait and adjoining waters by a wide variety of industries and agencies (fishing, education and training, science, recreation, etc.) in addition to commercial shipping interests, an urgent requirement submission should be made to the Commonwealth 
Government for the provision of more accurate and comprehensive navigation and position fixing facilities. Such facilities should be provided on a 'test case' basis, providing useful information to assist the planning of navaid systems in other such intensively used ocean areas. 
There should be conducted an expert survey of navigation and position fixing requirements of the various marine interests using Bass Strait and adjoining waters and a review of facilities and equipment available to meet these requirements. The VIMS-- 
That is, the Victorian Institute of Marine Science- as an independent organisation with expertise in these matters, should conduct the study and make recommendations to the Commonwealth Minister for Transport, on the facilities and equipment required. Funds should be provided as soon as possible to enable the proposed study to be undertaken. 
I urge that very serious consideration should be given to those proposals, which came from a widely representative group of people who attended that seminar and which are important in a variety of ways in relation to the further development of the use of not only Bass Strait but also the various marine areas off south-eastern Australia. In the past that has been a neglected area of study. Relatively little study has been undertaken, particularly in relation to the continental shelf areas off Australia. Work on it is now starting to develop. In fact, a committee of this Senate is looking at marine science and research. But this is one aspect of that matter which, I believe, in the past has been approached in a far too narrow way. That approach could be improved very substantially by the Commonwealth Government adopting a broader, perhaps even multi-departmental, approach. 
I hope that the Tasmanian Government will put foward a proposition which recognises the part which it would have to play in relation to the continuation of the manning of the Maatsuyker Island lighthouse. But that is only one of the many aspects to which I believe the Commonwealth Government should be having regard and should be further developing. Certainly, it is an entirely wrong time to make plans to unman the Maatsuyker Island lighthouse. As far as the general position-fixing proposition in relation to south-eastern waters is concerned, I commend to honourable senators the report of the seminar to which I referred.  Mr Deputy President,  I seek leave to table a copy of that report so that it can be made available to any honourable senator who wishes to examine it. 
Leave granted. 
I present the report of Senate Estimates Committee B on the particulars of proposed expenditure for the year 1979-80 and departmental expenditure under the Advance to the Minister for Finance 1 978-79, together with the  Hansard  record of the Committee 's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave- At page 3 in the final paragraph of the report mention is made that the Committee was awaiting a reply from the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  in relation to one of the matters raised during the Committee's hearings. The Attorney-General had now provided a full answer to the question asked but the reply was not received until the Committee finalised its report. The letter will be tabled in the Senate together with other information received by the Committee at a subsequent time. 
I find some difficulty in knowing how to reply to the attack that has been made. It was so misguided, misconceived and confused that it was rather hard to follow what the Opposition was trying to get at.  Senator Wriedt  tried to compare apples and pears. He talked about figures of five or 10 years ago and, without adjusting them in relation to inflation, compared them with today's figures.  Senator McAuliffe  spent most of his speech arguing in favour of the Labor Party's proposal to borrow $4,000m, which in present day terms would be $7,000m, and then spent the rest of his speech berating the present Government for borrowing $ 1 ,500m last year. I say again that it was rather hard to follow what the Opposition was getting at. 
Let me refer to what I would have thought was a much more preferable approach to this question. Australia's external debt is now 5.3 per cent of gross domestic product. Ten years ago it was 6.5 per cent; 20 years ago it was 10.8 per cent. In other words, the dangerous situation- described in dramatic terms by  Senator McAuliffe  as being on the brink of bankruptcy- is one which has improved dramatically in the past 20 years, from a situation where external debt was 10.8 per cent of gross domestic product to one where it is down to 5.3 per cent. If that does not rebut the nonsense that we have heard this afternoon from the Opposition I do not know what will. 
I wish to deal now with a matter raised by other speakers which I think warrants repeating. A recent publication of the  Institutional Investor  lists credit ratings given by some 90 banks around the world. Those major financial institutions who participated in a survey conducted by the  Institutional Investor  rated Australia in the top 10 of the 93 countries surveyed-. That is the answer to what  Senator McClelland  was talking about and it indicates the current attitude in relation to Australia.  Senator McClelland  quoted what  Mr Salomon  said in November last year, but it is quite obvious that the bankers of the world do not agree with either  Mr Salomon  or  Senator McClelland. 
I refer briefly to another matter that was raised in relation to the spread of borrowings around the world. Some honourable senators have tried to compare some funny money deals, conducted by a back door method by the previous Government, with what might be regarded as the perfectly open, ordinary, straightforward means that have been adopted by this open, straightforward Government, which has not had to resort to lies to try to cover up what it has been doing in relation to borrowing funds. I do not want to go tripping down memory lane, as some honourable senators have this afternoon, but I remind honourable senators that a series of clear proven lies were told in relation to those overseas loans in 1975. 

 Opposition senators interjecting- 

I think the only comment I can make is that empty vessels make the most noise. I refer to the spread of Australia's overseas debt in relation to various currencies. It is 34 per cent in United States dollars, '23 per cent in Deutschemarks, 1 5 per cent in yen, 16 per cent in Swiss francs, 8.4 per cent in guilders, and 2.8 per cent in other currencies. In other words, our overseas debt is spread around a number of good, strong and representative currencies of the world. The borrowings are from some of our major trading partners, particularly in Europe, at relatively low interest rates, a matter which ought to be taken into account when making comparisons with some of the other types of loans at very high interest rates to which reference has been made in the debate this afternoon and which were proposed in 1974 and 1975. 
I will deal briefly with the current situation because people who listened to  Senator McAuliffe  's comments of gloom and doom may be concerned'. It is as well to note this statement on page 5 5 of Budget Paper No. 1 : 
The marked improvement in Australia's international competitiveness in recent years is assumed to be maintained and perhaps somewhat enhanced during 1979-80. The existing program of government overseas borrowing designed broadly to maintain the level of reserves is also assumed to continue, although the strengthening that has already occurred and is in prospect for the balance of payments should enable that program to be wound down substantially. - The Government's monetary policy is directed to restraining growth in the monetary aggregates to a degree consistent with a supply of funds adequate for sustainable growth in activity and employment while at the same time bearing down on inflation and inflationary expectations. . 
That, in summary, is the present Government's approach. It is one which has been supported consistently by other countries and by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, which has repeatedly confirmed that it is the correct approach to overcome the problems that are being suffered in this country and so many other countries. 
The assumption made in the Budget on the general trade position is that there will be a continuance in the growth of our trade. The latest figures out, those for September, indicate that to this stage that assumption is being borne out. For that month a record trade surplus was achieved. When one considers the steady measures that have been taken to counter inflation and to avoid creating uncertainty by continually making currency exchange adjustments, one must support those measures. I remind honourable senators that in the 1973-75 period three, if not four, such adjustments were made but only one, in 1976, has been made since this Government was elected to office. The borrowings which have been undertaken still represent a low percentage of the gross domestic product. As I have pointed out, 20 years ago Australia's borrowings represented 10.8 per cent of gross domestic product. The figure is now down to 5.3 per cent. Therefore, no one can claim that it represents a huge or dramatic growth in terms of Australia 's capacity to borrow and repay. The steps that have been undertaken by the Government have overcome the substantial destruction of our trade competitiveness during the period 1974-75. This has been rectified to a stage at which Australia can look forward to rapidly expanding trade, conducted on a competitive and successful basis. Again at page 47 of Budget Paper No. 1, we read: 
Over recent years external policy has been conducted against a background of sizeable current account deficits . . . financed to less than the usual extent by long-term private capital inflow. This stemmed not merely from the subdued state of the world economy, but from the domestic economic distortions which developed in the mid- 1 970s and which reduced the competitiveness of Australian industries and Australia's attractiveness to foreign capital. 
As I said a moment ago, insofar as any logical argument has been presented this afternoon by the Opposition,- it is totally refuted by the statements of the OECD.  Senator McAuliffe  claimed that Australia was on the brink of bankruptcy. One need only ask any real economist whether that is so. I refer to the opinion of the OECD, which most people in the world would accept as being made up of real economists. At page 45 of its report of June 1 979, on Australia, we read: 
Australia is a resource-rich country and there is every reason to expect that, over the medium term, world demand for agricultural products and minerals will lead to a restoration of strong capital inflows to finance the development of these resources. As experience in 1978 suggests, continued progress in restoring better price performance and financial stability generally could hasten the further recovery in these inflows. Accordingly . . 
These are the words that I emphasise-  the Government's policy of pursuing its stabilisation goals while temporarily supporting the balance of payments by official foreign borrowing would seem to offer the best chance of achieving sustainable improvement in overall economic performance in the medium term. 
I refer honourable senators opposite, who are obviously totally confused on the matter, to page 45 of that report which, as I have said, confirms that the Government's approach, including its overseas borrowings, offers the best prospect for the achievement of sustainable improvement in overall economic performance. That statement by the OECD, if nothing else, destroys entirely the unsubstantiated and unsubstantiatable claims that have been made in the Senate by the Australian Labor Party this afternoon. We have an improving position. We have an increasing capacity to borrow and repay. In summary, we have a very high credit rating round the world. We have the approval and support of the OECD for the policy that is being pursued. Our total external debt, rated as a percentage of gross domestic product, is only half of what it was 20 years ago. 
Bearing those matters in mind, how can it be said that it is a matter of concern that overseas borrowings have reached an amount which, in real terms, is still far less than the amount which the Labor Government, in 1974 and 1975, was proposing to borrow in one fell swoop. The borrowing of $4,000m then contemplated would be equal to an amount of $7,000m today. I suggest that we can refute the claim that Australia is in some way on the brink of bankruptcy and, rather, join the OECD and the Australian Government in saying that the picture for the future of Australia is looking good. I move: 
That the business of the day be now called on. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I can understand that tempers on the Opposition side have become a little frayed. My interjection simply referred to an old situation which is best described as 'He who acts for himself hath a fool for an advocate'. I was speaking about getting value for money. I meant that if people act on legal opinions which have been given for nothing it may be that they are acting in a way which is not entirely in their best interests. 1 can only suggest to members of the Opposition that they stop trying to malign people in the way that  Senator Keeffe  has done. He tried to suggest that in some way I was seeking to be paid by  Senator Harradine.  I think that most honourable senators would know that so far as Tasmania is concerned 

 Senator Harradine and I are not likely to be seeking either-- 
We happen to be political opponents. It is not likely that  Senator Harradine  would seek my opinion and it is not likely that I would be prepared to give it to him either free or for money. 

 - Senator Wriedt has sought the opportunity to be able to speak for some ten minutes if this motion is carried. It does seem to me and to my colleagues that  Senator Wriedt  should be able to move his amendment and that - 
I am sorry. He should be able to have it carried so he may speak if it is necessary, bearing in mind whatever may have been said by those who have sought the opportunity to exchange what I may describe as some greetings. If it becomes necessary for the Government to seek to reply to something that has been raised, the suggestion which we make is that a speaker on behalf of the Government will seek leave, and we hope that the Senate will give leave to enable him to refer to anything which has been raised. 
Only on the same grounds on which  Senator Wriedt  is seeking some time to respond.  Senator Wriedt  has been mentioned. If it appears that some Government senator has been mentioned in some way-- 
No, but if during the time which is given there is some basis upon which some person on this side of the chamber wishes to speak and an application to seek leave is made, I trust that the appropriate approach of this chamber will be followed. The suggestion which I make is this: The Senate may do what  Senator Carrick  has suggested and comply with the request which appears to be mutually agreed between  Senator O'Byrne  and  Senator Harradine  that they have time to be able to speak. This complies with the request that has been made by  Senator Wriedt  to enable him to have time to speak. If it becomes desirable- I do not expect this to be necessary- for a member of the Government to be able to have the opportunity to rebut something which has arisen I hope that leave will be granted. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Motion, as amended, agreed to. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I present the report and transcript of evidence of the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations on its inquiry into the Advance to the Minister of Finance. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
As a result of a recommendation of Senate Estimates Committee A in its report of May 1978, the Senate referred to our Committee on 6 June 1978 the use of the funds approved by the Parliament for the Advance to the Minister for Finance. This issue has concerned the Senate for some time. The matter has been debated in the Chamber on several occasions over recent years. 
There are two main reasons for this concern. The first is that the use of the Advance involves expenditure by the Government of moneys which have not been appropriated for the purpose by the Parliament. The second is that the amounts being allocated to the Advance have risen in the last ten years. In 1969-70, for example, the amount allocated to the Advance was $40m, which represented about 1.3 percent of the total amount of that year's Appropriation Acts. In 1978-79 the Advance was allocated $225m, which represented about 2.1 per cent of the total provision in the Appropriation Acts. 
The first part of our report describes the technical processes which are used in the application of the Advance. Honourable senators will be aware of these processes so I will not elaborate on them now. The Committee examined the Advance in order to answer the following questions: Does the current use of the Advance give too much latitude to the Government of the day to evade the principle of Parliamentary appropriation of expenditure which is required by section 83 of the Constitution? Would another system conform more closely with this principle and yet still provide the Government with sufficient flexibility? We concluded that a centrallycontrolled contingency fund such as the Advance is the best method of providing the Government with expenditure flexibility. 
We then went on to consider whether the actual operation of the Advance could be improved. The first conclusion we drew was that it is important to ensure that there is no sudden escalation in the amount allocated to the Advance. A sudden rise in the amount would provide the Government with more opportunity to evade the principle of maximum prior Parliamentary appropriation of Government expenditure. In 1978-79 the amount allocated to the Advance represented 2.3 per cent of the previous year's totals for the Appropriation Acts. Whilst any particular ceiling or cut-off point that one might specify must necessarily be arbitrary, we consider that bearing in mind the previous practice in this Parliament and in comparable countries, this present figure of 2.3 percent represents a point beyond which the Advance should not be allowed to grow without specific Parliamentary scrutiny and approval. We have therefore recommended that if in future years the amount allocated to the Advance in Appropriation Bills (No. 1) and (No. 2) is greater than the total of the Appropriation Acts of the preceding year then the matter should be formally considered by the Parliament. The most appropriate method of consideration is, in our opinion, to refer the matter to the relevant committee in each House, for example, the Senate Standing Committee on 
Finance and Government Operations and the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure. 
We discovered that considerable confusion has arisen as to the conditions under which moneys appropriated to the Advance can be made available in supplementation of existing appropriations for specified purposes. Without going into the full details, these are the terms which have been used to describe the criteria for access to the Advance by the various authorities: unforeseen and extraordinary expenditure'; urgent or special circumstances'; 'urgent and unforeseeable requirements'; 'urgent and unforeseen expenditure'; 'urgent or unforeseen needs'. This situation is obviously highly confusing and undesirable. The meanings of those various terms, quite obviously, differ substantially. The uncertainty was the cause of the disquiet expressed by Estimates Committee A in its report of May 1978. We have therefore recommended that the criteria be standardised so that access to the Advance to supplement existing appropriations should only be given in 'urgent and unforeseen' circumstances. We consider further that the term 'unforeseen' should be regarded as including 'unforeseen as to amount'. At the moment the criteria is set out in the Finance Directions. Ministers and others need not be bound by the Directions and they may be changed without the Parliament being informed. We therefore consider that the criteria should be given a greater legislative impact by placing them in the Finance Regulations made under the Audit Act. 
The Committee next considered expenditure from the Advance for new services for which no specific appropriation has been made. Expenditure on new items was of particular concern to the Committee because it is theoretically possible for the Government to use the Advance to fund an entirely new program so that when the Parliament is approached for appropriation it is presented with a fait accompli. We concluded after our investigation that the potential for abusing the Advance in this way can be overcome by earlier and more explicit disclosure of the expenditure from the Advance. We have therefore recommended two ways of improving the disclosure. First, we have recommended that the explanations accompanying the Additional Estimates should contain a separate section for each department showing the funds which had already been provided from the Advance. Secondly, we have recommended that the Government issue a public statement of approvals of expenditure from the Advance at the end of each month and that this statement be tabled in Parliament at the earliest opportunity. The statement would list all expenditure which requires creation of a new appropriation item and expenditure of amounts greater than $50,000 for the other categories of expenditure from the Advance. The Committee considers that the implementation of these changes to the operation of the Advance would strengthen the principle of prior parliamentary appropriation of the expenditure of public moneys and still leave the Government with sufficient flexibility over its affairs. I commend the report to the Senate. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
by leave- I table additional information received by Estimates Committee B and seek leave for it to be incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Education been drawn to a report in today's  Mercury  newspaper which claims that the threatened dismantling of the Mount Nelson campus of the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education is the result of pressure coming from the Federal Government? Is this so? Is the claim factually based or is it a figment of somebody's imagination? 
I wish to take the opportunity of the adjournment debate to speak very briefly to express a concern about the interests of a major Australian company in furthering its participation in Australia's development, and the rather small-minded attitude which has been adopted by one of the State governments. It is not a rare attitude. It is a problem within a federation. It relates to CSR Ltd, a company which has had a lifetime of association with Queensland, a company which is a major Australian company, a company which wishes to become further involved in the development of Australia, a company which I believe is well managed, a company which is significant and a company which ought to have the opportunity, if the market forces permit it, to be able to participate in a take-over and development to maximise the efficiency of the operation of the whole capital market system without interference by a State Premier who apparently regards anything which comes from south of the border of Queensland as beyond the pale and, if necessary, to be kept out of the development of a national attitude, a national development, a national efficiency on the basis that a company, even with that background of association with Queensland, is not to be allowed to participate in a take-over or a take-over attempt, which is natural within our total system, because it is not based on a totally Queensland shareholding. 
This is absurd. Queensland is controlled to a large extent out of the United States. Yet when an Australian company with a major Queensland association, when an Australian company which is efficient and competent wants to maximise the utilisation of the total capitalist system, in which I happen to believe and which I think is efficient only if market forces are allowed to operate, a man who purports to be in support of a private enterprise system- since he has been Premier, in the period from 1 97 1 to 1 979, he has increased the Public Service by over 30 per cent whilst private employment in that State has increased by less than 14 per cent- wishes to move in and prevent the market forces from operating to enable efficiency, which is after all the criterion on which the whole thing is based, and to prevent the company from having a go. 
I just wanted to take the opportunity to say that I think it would be the most retrograde thing that could happen to the potential development of Australia if the Queensland Government were to decide that north of the border is sacrosanct; that the Australian nation does not exist, that a company which has been involved in the development of Queensland, the development of the sugar industry and the development of a large number of other industries should not be allowed to attempt to participate in the development of the coal industry and a number of other associated activities with Thiess Brothers Pty Ltd. 
I am grateful to the Senate for the opportunity to express a concern about the development of Australia, about the private enterprise or capitalist system, about free market forces, and about what I would describe as the absurd aberrations of a rather small-minded local State nationalist attempting to interfere with those rather more significant forces applying. I thank the Senate. 
I disagree with  Senator Evans's  opposition. The expression is an expression which has achieved a degree of understanding which does not need to be avoided if we have to have this legislation. I do not believe that this is the desirable way to achieve it, but we are not going to achieve anything by adopting the argument of  Senator Evans.  The purposes of the University and of benefit to the University are expressions which are well understood and well capable of interpretation. I would simply indicate that, notwithstanding what I have said previously in relation to the whole Bill, the objection which has been taken is not one which appeals to me. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 17 and 18- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 19 (Membership of organisation not to be compulsory). 
I present the second report of the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations on its inquiry into statutory authorities of the Commonwealth. I move: 
That the report be printed. 
This is the second report by the Committee under its responsibility for the parliamentary oversight of Commonwealth statutory authorities and similar bodies. This continues the series of reports which we intend to present to the Senate on the subject. The main objects of this second report are to present the results of our survey of authorities' financial activities and to elaborate on our suggested annual reports Act to standardise the accountability of authorities. 
As honourable senators will recall from our first report, in view of the notable dearth of information on authorities' activities which was publicly available, we sent to authorities a questionnaire on their financial activities. The results have now been aggregated and analysed in this report. I will not go into the details of the survey results; rather I will choose a few sample statistics to indicate the scope of the economic impact of authorities. Authorities employed over 265,000 people in 1978, whereas departments employed only 119,000; their capital expenditure was over $ 1.6 billion; the total value of their land and buildings was over $2.2 billion; their total investments were over $6 billion. As these few statistics and the details of our report show, the economic impact of authorities is vast and has been considerably underrated. 
Our first report contained the first complete list of authorities. Our second report updates that list and takes the process a step further by categorising the authorities according to the functions which they perform. The Committee aims to establish standard and uniform accountability requirements for authorities and consistent criteria governing their creation and operating independence. We therefore recommended that statutorily defined standards of accountability should apply to each of the different functional categories of authorities. 
Our first report suggested the enactment of an annual reports Act to standardise the annual reporting and accountability requirements for authorities. Our idea was that, rather than amend the individual enabling Acts of authorities, Parliament should pass a new Act which would apply to all authorities generally. As honourable senators will be aware, at the moment a very unsatisfactory situation exists in relation to the accountability of authorities to the Parliament. There is a wide variation in their reporting requirements. Even when a reporting requirement is statutorily adequate it is often not complied with in practice. Our second report further discusses the contents of our proposed annual reports Act, including the standardisation of reportin g requirements. 
Perhaps the most important subject covered by authorities' reports from a parliamentary viewpoint is their financial activities. Our report discusses this issue in some depth. There is considerable variety in the financial policy of authorities. For example, some authorities are required to pursue a financial policy directed towards making a certain profit. Often those profits are measured as a percentage of the authority's capital. Yet some authorities receive large loans as a result of the Commonwealth-backed guarantees to which they have access. Those loans may not be taken into account when assessing the level of profit required from authorities. 
Borrowings by authorities are also significant. Under the 'gentleman's agreement' of the Australian Loan Council, only authorities which borrow more than $ 1.2 m in the financial year are subject to the full scrutiny of the Council. Moreover, some authorities are given permission to go out into the market place and borrow funds. The possible effects on the short term money market, interest rates and the money supply are clear. 
Another significant aspect of the financial behaviour of authorities is the amount of depreciation which they are able to charge. The more depreciation they are able to charge, the more they are able to finance their activities from their own resources. When the large surpluses enjoyed by some authorities are added to those provisions for depreciation it can be seen that those authorities are virtually separate economic entities with the financial ability to operate independently of outside resources and parliamentary appropriation. 
The basic recommendation of our second report is the enactment of an annual reports Act along the lines indicated by both this report and our first report. The Committee firmly believes that the standardisation of accountability and reporting requirements which such an Act would produce is highly desirable and would ensure that Parliament was adequately informed on authorities' activities. I reiterate that unless the Parliament ensures the accountability of authorities they are in effect responsible to no-one; neither to the Executive Government from which they have often been given a degree of independence nor, of course, to the taxpayers, who are their real owners. 
I  also take this opportunity to inform the 
Senate that the Committee's third report on the subject is well in hand and we hope to present it in the very near future. That report is based upon a series of case studies of annual reports which have been late in their presentation to the Parliament. Our investigations have uncovered many examples of unacceptable accountability practices. The third report will take considerably further our detailed recommendations for the contents of an annual reports Act.  I  commend the report to the Senate. 
I imagine that people who have listened to the debate so far may get the impression that it dealt only with student organisations and the membership thereof. In fact, the Australian National University Amendment Bill deals with a number of other matters which have not been mentioned, I presume because there is absolutely no contention in relation to them. The Bill covers a number of matters which have been the subject of discussion between the University Council, the University administration, the Department of Education and the Minister for Education  (Senator 
Carrick) for some time. They involve amendments to the Australian National University Act, basically to accommodate a need for change which has arisen since the Act was last amended. I take it that those provisions, which are supported by the Government and by the Council, are not opposed by the Opposition. I mention that simply to indicate that the Bill contains a number of matters which are not in dispute. 
Indeed, virtually only one aspect of it is in dispute. That relates to the way in which the University, as one of the many universities in Australia, and the Canberra College of Advanced Education, as one of many such colleges in Australia, pay fees to student associations and how they can be levied and disbursed. I have been a member of the Council of the Australian National University for 10 years. That is a matter of great pride to me because I regard the University as one of the finest institutions in the world. It is one of the institutions of which Australia can be truly proud. It is one which, although it has a much shorter history than many similar institutions in Australia or the world, has developed a reputation of which Australia can be truly proud. 
I find it unfortunate that tonight we are dealing on an acrimonious basis with a proposed amendment which I can only say represents an interference in what I would have hoped was an area of administration that could have been left to the Council which has been described by  Senator Tate  as one of some general eminence and in which some trust could have been placed. I found it most unfortunate that my colleague,  Senator Puplick,  should have made the statement that he did in relation to a motion that was carried at the meeting of the Council on 9 November. He said, in effect, 'There is a move to distribute money to the AUS'. He said that that was his interpretation of a motion which, in fact, said that the Council had reached the stage where, having earlier in the year said that it requested student organisations to make no payment to the Australian Union of Students until the Council had considered this further, rescinded that request. It referred to the General Services Fee Advisory Committee which is nominated and selected by Council and which has the function of determining, subject to Council, to which organisations fees will be paid and in what proportion and the total question as to whether the AUS and any contribution to it fall within the concepts already determined by Council as being in the interests of the University. _ " 
What happened, and I suggest what has been ignored, is that early this year the Council considered very seriously what it had considered for some two or three years. It moved from a position which I found difficult to support on an occasion when I moved a motion and could not get a seconder. I found myself somewhat lonely. It was in relation to voluntary membership of student associations. It seriously and conscientiously came to some conclusions in relation to a statute which it has the power, subject to the approval of the Governor-General, to introduce. That statute sets out the basis upon which the Council believes that the question of voluntary student membership and contribution of fees should be approached. What happened last Friday at the Council meeting was that it rescinded its previous motion, which was binding in that nothing could happen, and said- it was a reasonable step forward- that it would refer the matter to the General Services Fee Advisory Committee for recommendation as to what payment, if any- I am sorry that my colleague  Senator Puplick  did not emphasise the words 'if any'- should be made by University associations for the purpose of affiliation with the Australian Union of Students. It happens that there has been some argument during the period in which there has been discussion and negotiation- and in a moment I will congratulate the Minister for Education upon the attitude that he has adopted in relation to this- on both sides of Lake Burley Griffin. There has been a continuing obligation on the part of a number of university organisations to pay affiliation fees. 
The legislation has not been in existence. The law has not said 'You cannot make a payment'. The organisations are still affiliated. Are we suggesting that the University Council is not permitted to take into account, for instance, the question of whether there is a legal obligation for this year to make a payment? I would have hoped that, particularly from this side of the chamber, there would have been a recognition that there is a problem which does need consideration and which does not lead to the sort of judgment which was being made when it was suggested that there is a move to distribute moneys to the AUS. If I could put it another way, there is a move to sort out a problem, and the resolution which has been taken by the Council is a responsible resolution to set in train a sequence of events which will enable the problem to be resolved. 
I have undertaken to the Government Whip to be brief tonight. That is a matter of some regret, but it has been caused by the obfuscation of the general proceedings of this chamber over many days by an Opposition which seems to be more intent on wasting time than getting on with business. I find it unfortunate and objectionable that time on an important matter like this, one in which I am interested and about which I am concerned, should now have to be limited because the Opposition has frittered away the time of the chamber. Let me refer very briefly to the fact that compulsory membership of student associations has been a matter of concern to me for a long time, since long before the time when a whole lot of people who have been sounding off about it loudly began to show concern. 
I accept that. I do not like compulsion, I do not like the gag. I do not like all sons of things like that. 1 have been opposed to compulsory membership of student associations for a very long time. I had sought to put the view on the Australian National University Council that this situation should not exist. That view is accepted by the Council at this time. While referring to the student association at the ANU I notice that  Mr Bartos  is in the Gallery this evening. I should like to suggest that, whilst our views may not be identical, I think it is important to recognise that the student association has come a very long way in moving towards a changed attitude on this matter. What is so unfortunate is that we should find amongst some people the attitude that one has to take a sledge hammer to crack a nut. I find it unfortunate that this has not been able to be left totally to what is, I believe, a responsible council at the Australian National University to assess- bearing in mind, and certainly as a virtually totally publicly-funded organisation it should bear in mind- some reasonable attitudes which are put forward by the Government of the day which is organising the funds, which this year amount to $86m, which is not exactly a minor amount of money. Of course the Council should take that into account. But I do regard it as unfortunate that we do not appear to be prepared to say 'Let us try to make a system work in which a government can make its views known, knowing that it has the sanction if necessary to withdraw the funds'. That is the ultimate sanction. It is unfortunate that if we have to legislate - 
The Council has moved further than either the Government or any other section of the community in relation to this question, and one of the things that I regard as unfortunate is the extent to which there has been a maligning of the Council of the Australian National University as being obdurate, stupid, and made up of a group of revolutionaries. As  Senator Tate  said, if we look through the list of the people who are on that Council, it could hardly be regarded as anything other than one of the most carefully selected and resonably responsible bodies in the community. There has been a major change. There has been a recognition of the sort of problems which were having attention drawn to them. 
I do not go along with the criticism that has been made of the Australian Liberal Students Federation. I happen to be one of the trustees, and it is my honour to be one of the trustees; I have spoken to them and I make no secret of it. I have been a guest  speaker  at their annual function and I have spoken on this subject of voluntary membership. But to me the unfortunate part is that we seem to be going further than is necessary. We seem to be reducing a situation in which there could be trust to a situation in which there is mistrust, and that is the sadness. When I hear  Senator Puplick  threatening that there will not be able to be communication between the university administration and the committees of this Parliament, saying that there cannot be trust any longer, I find that a matter of great sadness. It is one that has stirred me to breach an understanding I gave to the Whip not to speak for very long tonight. I find that one of the matters of great concern, and I should like the opportunity at some time to speak at much greater length about the way in which the University functions and about the way in which the University Council functions, and the disaster which I think will befall one of Australia's great institutions if this sort of attitude, which seems to be behind the debate which is taking place here, is going to prevail. 
Because of the understanding which I gave, which I understand is part of an arrangement to get on with the business of the Senate, and because there has been an unconscionable delay in getting on with that business, I curtail the remainder of my remarks. But I ask people not to make hasty judgments, not to make unfair judgments, about the Council of that University. I congratulate the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  for the attitude which he has adopted in relation to this matter. I believe that  Senator Carrick  has enabled there to be a development from the original Bill, which I would have regarded as Draconian in the extreme, and which I think probably would have induced me to vote against it, to one which I am just not prepared to support. I congratulate you,  Mr Minister. 
I do not propose to vote in favour of the Bill because whilst it contains many desirable features which are of a machinery kind, I think it is unnecessary for the Parliament to impose on the Council of the University requirements in relation to these areas, particularly when the Council has made it demonstrably clear that it is prepared to act and has spent a very large part of more than 12 months of Council meetings discussing the very issues which are being so cursorily and superficially discussed here tonight. 
With a degree of sadness that we have before us this sort of situation in relation to one of our great institutions, let me just say that it is my pride that I have enjoyed 10 years' association with it, and that I have great faith in the Council of the University to be able to make decisions which are reasonable and responsible and which do take into account some of the fundamental considerations of what is important to the Australian way of life, considerations which include an absence of compulsion and a freedom of choice. I believe that the University Council, if given the chance to implement that sort of concept, would do so admirably. I am delighted to find that many of the amendments which have been made from the original Bill to the current one do leave to the Council most of the decisions. That, again, is why I am so delighted to be able to say 'thank you' to the Minister. I think it is unfortunate that they do not leave to the Council all the decisions. For that reason I propose to abstain from voting on the Bill. 
I would simply like to respond to this first group of amendments in the way in which I would like to respond to all the proposed amendments. I am not sure whether any honourable senators think the legislation in its current form is perfect. If they do, I would be happy to discuss with them at some other time how they reached that conclusion. There are a number of things which one can expect will need to be reviewed, developed, or added to. A number of amendments could be considered. But the point is one which has already been made during the second reading debate, and that is that this legislation constitutes an agreement reached between the members of the Ministerial Council- the six State AttorneysGeneral and the Federal Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. The discussion about amendment reflects the problem which is inherent in the Ministerial Council co-operative federalist approach, and that is that inherently we run the risk of delay because propositions for amendment have to go back to the next Ministerial Council and at this stage would require the approval of all seven members. After this legislation is enacted the Commission will be under way and, as has been indicated earlier, it will require only a majority decision. It seems to me that it is far more in the best interests of Australia and the development and regulation of our capital market that we should get this proposal off the ground and get the Commission under way. 
I hope that the Ministerial Council and the commissioners in due course will give consideration to all the proposed amendments which, as I understand it,  Senator Evans  is to move. But it would be putting back the development of a commission in Australia and putting back any form of reform in this area of the law by a period of at least six months if the Committee passed these amendments tonight. Therefore, I believe that it is not so much a matter of the Committee considering the amendments on their merits as the Committee considering the fundamental merit of getting under way the National Companies and Securities Commission and then the Commission, as one of its major functions, considering through the appropriate system any necessary legislative amendments and making recommendations in relation to them. A number of these things, I believe, not only can be considered by the Commission but also should be considered by the Commission. For that reason, whilst there may be merit in a number of  Senator Evans's  proposed amendments, I do not intend to support anything which would delay the creation of the Commission. 
-This amendment deals with Part VI of the proposed legislation, which is one of the most essential parts of the Bill before us. It is through the capacity to conduct hearings that the Commission will be able to fulfil the role of getting away from red tape. Rather than trying to apply the criminal law in relation to the regulation of the securities industry, we will be able to pursue the concept of ensuring disclosure and ensuring that people are informed in relation to activities and, therefore, can make an informed judgment, being in many ways a better basic approach to the regulation of the industry than the reliance upon some idea that if we catch one person out of 1,000 people who have breached the law we then prosecute that person and, if we are lucky, we might get a conviction for failing to file an annual return when in fact that person has blown through to South America with $ 1 m or whatever it may be. 
I just wish to comment that it is important that further consideration be given to the form and powers of the Commission in relation to hearings. It would be appropriate, in due course, for the Commission and Ministerial Council to consider the son of approach suggested by  Senator Evans's  amendment. However, I reiterate, it would not be appropriate at this stage. 
I refer to clause 36 (2) and ask the AttorneyGeneral whether the power to hold a hearing wherever the Commission chooses is implied therein. That is a matter which relates to the clause generally. Although a specific direction is not given in the Bill I hope that the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  will be able to confirm my understanding that that is the intention. 
In many ways I would like to support what  Senator Evans  said and to refer to the fact that Australia is in urgent need of adopting some form of accounting standards review committee. I would like to broaden what has been suggested a little further and to say that it is an accounting and auditing standards review committee which is essential. The auditing function, I believe, at this stage is subject to a number of areas of confusion, a number of degrees of deficiency, which need to be overcome in relation to the preparation and presentation for auditing of company accounts. I do not see tonight as the time to discuss that in detail. We should rather direct the attention of the Ministerial Council- one would hope- and the new National Companies and Securities Commission, when it is created, towards the need for something along the lines of what has been discussed by  Senator Evans  and by many other people, and what is discussed frequently within the accountancy profession at accountancy seminars and meetings of accountants. There seems to be a general feeling that there is a need for some support for the profession's own attempts to develop and to enforce standards. 
The accountacy profession is not like the legal profession or the medical profession in that it does not have a form of statutory limitation as to entry. The form of statutory enforcement for its professional standards I believe needs to develop in a way which will enable it to insist in not only the creation of standards for both accounting and auditing in relation to company accounts, but also the enforcement of the adherence to those standards by the members of that profession. I think that that is the view of most of the sincere and significant members of that profession. Without going into detail, I just indicate that I hope that this will be one of the matters considered by the Ministerial Council, or further considered by the Ministerial Council, at an early date and that it will be one of the matters considered by the National Commission when it is created. 
In dealing with the National Companies and Securities Bill, the basis of which and some of the history of which was referred to a short time ago by  Senator Evans,  let me first draw something of the perspective in which I see us operating in relation to this type of legislation. In 1 975 the SenateHouse Conference Committee of the United States Congress, when dealing with the Securities Act amendments, said: 
The securities markets of the United States are an important national asset. Under this system of federal regulation, established in the 1930s, these markets have flourished. They have provided a means for millions of Americans to share in the profits of our free-enterprise system and have facilitated the raising of capital by new and growing businesses. 
I would like to adopt those words as my hope for the future as a result of what we are proposing to do here in this legislation. To me the objective is the creation of a regulatory framework which is intended to provide for the operation of a free, fair, open and efficient capital market and which is designed to ensure the enjoyment of freedom of enterprise in the same way that our traffic laws provide for the enjoyment of our right of freedom of passage over our public highways. 
With that brief introduction, let me have a little look into history. In the history of the various forms of stock markets that the world has known there has always been a problem of the appropriate method to achieve the objective without overly restricting the operation of individuals and without too much regulation, but to try to ensure that they are fair, free, open and efficient in their operations. Of course, the strains on any such system become very great when there is a boom; and booms are part of the inevitable cycle which seems to take place in economic activity. I think it is not inappropriate to remember at the moment that it is highly likely that next year there will be a very substantial increase in boom activities in Australia, some of which started to take place on the stock exchanges and securities markets of Australia during the past months of this year and continued until the recent but, I believe, temporary downturn. 
It is regrettable that, notwithstanding that recommendations were made by a committee of this chamber in a very detailed way some five and a half years ago, we are only today dealing with a Bill which, whilst not precisely implementing the recommendations of that committee, is the way in which the government of the day has seen fit to try to achieve the committee's objective. This matter all started with the Poseidon boom at the end of the 1960s, when the stock exchanges of Australia took on an atmosphere more akin to a casino than to an important part of a responsible economic system. It was in 1970 that the Senate, at the suggestion of the then Leader of the Opposition in the Senate,  Senator Murphy,  now  Mr Justice  Murphy of the High Court of Australia, and with the support of all parties established the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. 
That Committee worked diligently for a period and presented its report, in which it found very substantial abuses, malpractices, and regulatory deficiencies. There was massive insider trading which very soon became apparent to members of the Committee as the Committee started to lift the veil on what had been talcing place. What also became very apparent were such practices as short selling; cornering of markets; brokers' house trading in which they took on the position of being very privileged speculators; and manipulative practices such as runs, pools and rumours. If any honourable senators want to read a good and quite exciting bedtime story I commend to them the section of the report of the Senate Committee which deals with runs, pools and rumours. 
At the same time, if they would like to find out that there was nothing new about what was happening on the stock exchanges of Australia in the late 1960s and the early 1970s and, to some extent is still taking place, I refer them to a book called  Once in Golconda  which describes the identical practices taking place on the New York Stock Exchange in the 1920s and early 1930s. In fact, I found it quite fascinating as a member of that Committee to treat the book  Once in Golconda  as something in the nature of a textbook. We found that there were so many people operating within the securities industry in Australia who were obviously doing likewise that it was a good way to find out what they might do next. 
-That is what I mean. That is what I said. They were obviously reading it. Because of time limitations I will not dwell too long on that subject. I refer to one of the things which gives an idea of the extent to which abuse was taking place and can take place. The Committee considered placements of shares. This is an area of activity where the Committee, as a result of a broker's clerk becoming concerned about what had been happening and informing the Committee anonymously of some of the activities of which he bacame aware regarding some of the abuses in relation to private placements, decided to take a random selection of placements not involving any one firm or any one State. Five placements were selected. In one of them two firms of brokers were involved. The placement was divided in half. Of the five selected at random, four and a half were subject to identified abuses which are set out in the report. That was a random selection. I refer to that because I think it gives some idea of the sort of situation which the Committee found existing in Australia which is a very far from desirable situation. It called out for action to start to bring our extremely important markets back to a situation where they were at least of a standard which could be expected on a racecourse from the point of view of stewards' control. 
In relation to brokers, it was identified that there was a lack of training and qualification. There was a lack of adequate capital requirements. It was identified that brokers were trading, some of them to a substantial extent, with their clients' funds. Others were fuelling the boom with credits. There was confusion between agency and non-agency activities. There were- I found this one of the quite extraordinary revelations in the inquiry and I am sure that all other members of the Committee would agree with this- totally irreconcilable conflicts of interest between people who, in one capacity, were the self-regulators, in another capacity were the brokers agents and, in another capacity, were running investment companies, share trading companies, mining and exploration companies, and were acting as intermediaries in the market. Yet they could not really see that they had a duty to give some thought to whether there was any way in which those conflicts of interest could ever be reconciled. When some of them were asked about reconciliation of those conflicts of interest they found it hard to comprehend that there was a problem. 
The which-hat-am-I-wearing problem was one of the problems which became very obvious. In each of the cases identified and studied by the Committee, which adopted a case study approach to the problem, it was found and identified in chapter after chapter of the Committee's report that there was both a failure of regulation by the Government on a State by State basis and a failure of self-regulation. In relation to that, I quote briefly from page 121 of chapter 10 of the report, which states: 
In the Committee's view, while there is co-operation on joint investigations once major abuses have come to light, there is not in practice the continuous co-ordinated monitoring of the entire national market which is necessary to reveal and prevent practices of the kind disclosed by our investigation of private placements. The case studies of this chapter provide evidence of not only the breakdown in effective regulation by various stock exchanges and State authorities but also of the intrinsic difficulties of trying to regulate effectively a national share market with a fragmented structure of regulatory bodies. 
Because of the shortage of time, I simply refer back to the sections of chapter 1 6 of the Committee 's report which  Senator Evans  quoted and ask honourable senators to read them as part of my speech because they were identical to the parts of the report which I had thought introduced matters of relevance and significance to this debate. 
In order to give honourable senators an idea of the sorts of things which were identified and referred to in the report, I shall read briefly some of the headings which appear in chapter 1 5 of the report, which is entitled: 'Summary: The Failings of the Existing Regulators'. Under that appears the heading 'Failings of the Stock Exchanges', followed by the sub-headings Regulation of Stock Exchange Members' and Regulation of the Market'. The Committee found failure in both those types of regulation. It found failings of the State companies offices and the relevant law and a lack of uniformity in administrative practices and in the quality of administration. In relation to that, it was found that there was an extraordinary failure. Since the inquiry took place and the report was printed endeavours have been made to achieve a greater degree of uniformity in that area. I pay credit to those who tried to achieve that uniformity. 
Unless one national approach to this is adopted, I do not believe that we are likely to achieve uniformity. Unless we achieve uniformity in dealing with what is undoubtedly a national market, undoubtedly a market which has international ramifications and certainly a market which is intended to be part of a national economy- that was one of the bases upon which federalism took place in Australia- I believe that we are not likely to be successful in overcoming the sorts of problems which were identified by the Senate Committee. Unless we achieve that uniformity, we are not likely to be successful in achieving the sorts of objectives which the United States Congress referred to in 1975 when considering amendments to its securities legislation, which had arisen as a result of the creation in 1933 and 1934 of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. 
What we are dealing with is a market which is national and has international ramifications. When the sitting of the Senate is resumed after the suspension for dinner, I shall proceed to deal with some of the aspects of how we should deal with that national market which, as I mentioned, far more importantly than any State by State ramifications, has international ramifications which can be approached only by a national government acting nationally. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m.  (Quorum formed). 
I shall resume discussing a matter of some significance to the country and not worry about some irrelevancies such as the Opposition obstruction. The matter we are discussing is the National Companies and Securities 
Commission Bill. Before the suspension of the sitting, we had reached the stage in discussing the Bill of identifying the need for a national approach; the fact that we have a national market with international ramifications, the fact that the prices of Australian stocks on the London Exchange materially affect what happens in Australia, and the fact that during the boom times there is a great deal of trading opportunity on the London Exchange for assisting in the various sorts of manipulative practices which can take place. So there is a need for a national approach to the provision of a framework necessary in which the capital markets of Australia can be conducted efficiently on a free, fair, open and efficient basis. 
The Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange, in presenting its report, said at chapter 16, page 15: 
This legislative action should be in pursuance or two broad, sometimes conflicting, objectives of national policy. 
The first is to maintain, facilitate and improve the performance of the capital market in the interests of economic development, efficiency and stability. 
The second is to ensure adequate protection of those who invest in the securities of public companies and in the securities market. 
I imagine that there would be many people in Australia who would have felt the sting of the failure of regulation at various stages of the past 10 years and who would believe that the second objective was an extremely important aspect. The attempt which is now being made is one which we hope will be at least the start in achieving those objectives. 
The Senate Select Committee recommended that there should be one national approach to the problem, but in doing so it was not wholly concentrating on such government regulation, for at page 16. 12 it said:   . . we stress that there will be a substantial role and need for self-regulatory bodies in the system of securities regulation which we recommend. Indeed, we see this selfregulatory function as an essential ingredient of a total regulatory system. 
I emphasise that that is a situation of importance; that self-regulation should be seen to be an important part and in fact should be an important part of the regulation of the system. 
The history since that report is that in December 1974, some five months after the Senate Select Committee had reported, the then Labor Government introduced what has become known as the Murphy Bill. After the then  Senator Murphy  went to the High Court, the Enderby Bill was introduced. They were regarded by many as being draconian in that they went too far. In 1975 the Enderby Bill was referred to a Senate committee which considered it. However, the point which I think should be made is that during the debate in 1975-1 would have loved to have had the time for the sake of history to refer in particular to parts of the debate which took place then in the House of Representatives- it was made quite clear that the parties were ad idem, that they had no difference on the need for a national approach. That was made abundantly clear in 1975 and has remained so as far as the present Government parties are concerned. 
I believe the only difference which has occurred since the change of government in 1975 is that a different approach has been adopted which I find- I will refer to this aspect in a moment- less than the most desirable. However, it is a perfectly justifiable approach. The stance taken is to see whether the federalist approach will work. If that cannot work the Government can turn to legislating in the way  Senator Evans  suggested; that is, the Commonwealth, going it alone. This legislation is a challenge to federalism. It is my firm belief that there is no real doubt that the Commonwealth has the power and the duty in this area. If the federalist approach does not work, if there is obstructionism from the States, it will be the responsibility of whatever government is in power in Canberra to ensure that this national approach is adopted. If necessary, it will have to go it alone. That is the challenge of this legislation. 
Negotiations during 1976, 1977 and 1978 led - as  Senator Evans  said - to the Maroochydore agreement of December 1978. We then saw a piece of pettiness which I thought was unfortunate and which is why I say that a real challenge to federalism is involved. We had an undignifying dispute as to the site of the proposed Commission's headquarters. Because of the delay this Bill, which could have been dealt with during the autumn session of this Parliament, did not reach us until the Budget session. In other words, the matter was held up for six months as a result of a dispute which could have been and should have been resolved much more expeditiously. 
The proposed Commission is, I fear, on paper, something in the nature of a toothless tiger. But it has the capacity to develop. If the Commission has the goodwill of the ministerial council made up of the six Attorneys-General from the States and the Commonwealth Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs and provided it also is composed of people who are keen and who have the capacity and the vision to make it work, it can play the part that was envisaged by the Senate Committee in its report and which was envisaged by people in other countries such as the United States which introduced the system which has worked extremely well in that country. 
Let me try to deal very speedily with some of the things that I believe will be desirable and necessary. I draw the attention of those who have a copy of the report to look at- I have not time to quote from the relevant sections- to the part concerning the commissioners and the structure of the Commission. The Committee in chapters 16.23 and 16.24 set that out in detail. The Bill substantially goes along with the recommendations of the Committee on that aspect. In relation to staff, which is a matter to be considered after the commissioners have been appointed, I draw attention to chapter 16.26 of the report. 
It is important, I believe, that we look to the things that can happen and should happen and at what will be the problems confronting the new Commission when it is created. We must look at the areas of activity. I trust that the  chairman  to be appointed to the Commission will not be a person who is regarded as a ' member of the club ' but rather a person who is, by a cross-section of experience, able to guide the Commission in its establishment period. 
There will be a need for a variety of things to be done, and relatively soon. In fact, the delay which has taken place since 1974 has done nothing to improve the efficiency, the operation, and the effectiveness of our capital markets in Australia. I wish to mention some points very briefly. The special study role is a very important role which I trust the Commission will undertake. Through that we may be able to develop accountancy and audit standards and practices, which many people in Australia believe need further consideration, discussion and development. We need to develop an efficient and upgraded companies Act, and a new securities Act which is more relevant to the needs of the national market than were the provisions of what we were going to have through the existing legislation, now to be introduced by the Commonwealth as a national companies Act and a national securities Act on the basis of what is most common to the States at the moment. There is an urgent need for some takeovers legislation, and the Government and the ministerial council have been working on that. I believe we will see that in the very near future. As soon as we can get this Bill passed, and the Commission established, we will see the introduction of the necessary legislation. The Commission then can start to look at what further developments within a concept are needed for the integration and development of a national market. 
We need to consider questions such as the incorporation of stockbrokers. We need to consider how to add breadth and depth to the market. We need to consider whether we are going to deal with white collar crime through systems of early disclosure rather than just by belated resort to the criminal courts, which has not worked in the past. We need to encourage the small investor back into the market. We need to develop some greater concept of participatory capitalism. We must consider a number of matters such as the scrip bank system and the development of the Australian market as the finance centre for the Pacific area. The qualifications of securities advisers need to be considered. In the last boom we had a situation where anybody, whatever his occupation may have been, could get off a tram walk into a broker's office, and become a securities adviser. The boom was such that it was quite incredible to see some of the people who were giving advice without any background or qualification. 
We need to develop a system of greater professionalism. We need to consider the position of geologists and other experts, their qualifications, ethics and liability. The criteria for fixing brokers' commissions and related questions need to be determined. We must consider how we are going to go about prosecutions, and the specialist role involved so far as prosecution is concerned. The United States Securities and Exchange Commission, which has not been able to develop its own special prosecutors, complains bitterly that there is a lack of expertise and experience. That is one of the things which will have to be considered by those people who are appointed as commissioners and develop the Commission. 
In the co-ordination role, where we have vastly differing State organisations, the problem will be how we go about actually co-ordinating the existing State organisations with this national Commission having the responsibility for coordination. I believe we need to defend and identify and extend the power of the Commission to be able to publish its thoughts, its investigations, its reports. We need to consider the current limitations on special investigations. Investigators need the power to operate nationally. Investigations should not simply be passed from one State to another. Investigation is one of the most essential parts of the whole system and it needs to be done by some person or group who will follow it right through. So far as the Commission is concerned, there will be an education role. A vast number of problems have been neglected. The discussion, the debate and the differences that have occurred, from the excesses of the Murphy legislation, which was introduced in 1974, through to the present stage, have led to a lack of consideration of many matters. Our market development has been held back. The development of Australia, of the dynamic capital growth which leads to industrial development, I believe, has been held back as a result of what has taken place in the last few years. I see it as essential that this Bill be passed by this House tonight at the first possible opportunity so that we may get something going. Something is better than nothing. I do not see it as likely that what I would have regarded as the most desirable will actually be possible in the near future; so let us get on with what has been agreed to in a federalist approach, by a combination of the efforts of the Commonwealth and the States. Let us get something under way concerning these and a horde of other matters about which I would have liked to have spoken tonight but which, unfortunately, the limitations on speaking time preclude me from so doing. 
I ask the Minister for Science and the Environment: Is it a fact that the Bureau of Meteorology has offered to contribute a sum of $10,000 towards the maintenance of a manned lighthouse at Maatsuyker Island? As it appears that the Minister for Transport and his Department are not particularly interested in retaining any form of manning for that lighthouse, will the Minister for Science and the Environment endeavour to co-ordinate an approach involving the Tasmanian Government, the Bureau of Meteorology, the maritime services rescue coordination centre and the various other organisations which have been referred to in questions which have been asked in this chamber over a period of 12 months or more, in order to put together a plan which will enable that lighthouse to continue to be manned for all the purposes which have been made so clear so often in this chamber? 
In discussing the report of Senate "Estimates Committee A,  Senator Martin  earlier in the evening made some reference to the use of the Advance to the Minister for Finance and the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations in relation to the use of the Advance to the Minister for Finance. That latter report arose as a result of a reference by the Senate to that Committee which followed the May 1978 report of Senate Estimates Committee A. So, it was part of the follow-up procedure of the Estimates committees which led to the Finance and Government Operations Committee considering this question and making a report to the Senate. 
I believe that it is relevant for us to consider for a moment, in the light of  Senator Martin's  remarks, the contents and recommendations of the report.- Basically I think that the most important point to make is that before an Estimates committee or this chamber can really criticise the use of the Advance to the Minister for Finance we have to somehow clear up the rules. The Finance and Government Operations Committee found, when it looked at the matter, that there are in use, in various ways, a whole lot of different criteria with different meanings in relation to the use of the Advance. The term 'unforeseen and extraordinary expenditure' was used in 1906 in the second reading speech of the then Treasurer during the passage of the Audit Act under which this was first introduced. We then find, in Finance Direction No. 29, the use of the term urgent or special circumstances'. We also find that the Public Accounts Committee has used the term 'urgent and unforseseeable requirements'. The Department of Finance's parliamentary handbook on Commonwealth financial affairs dated 1977 refers to 'urgent and unforeseen expenditure'. The letter of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in 1978 to the  Chairman  of Senate Estimates Committee A, which was part of the response to that Committee 's criticisms and which led to the reference to the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations, spoke of urgent or unforeseen needs '. 
It is clear that this Parliament has not yet sorted out what it is talking about when it talks about criteria in relation to the use of the Advance to the Minister for Finance. Although it may be good enough for the Parliament to approve happily something like $250m for the use of the Minister for Finance as an advance to help him deal with such situations, it is perhaps appropriate that we consider the report and recommendations of the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations with a view to clearing up what the criteria ought to be. I believe that before there can be any serious consideration or criticism of the way in which the Advance to the Minister for Finance has been used one must determine the rules as to how he is to use it. This is why the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations, in its recommendations, did what  Senator Martin  described as being perhaps a little disappointing. It found that Estimates Committee A, in proceeding upon the basis of criticising because it did not regard expenditure as falling within the category of urgent and unforeseen expenditure, had omitted to refer to the other criteria which it may be argued are also applicable. So we are saying: Let us clarify the criteria. Having determined the criteria, let us go ahead and look at how the Advance has been used. With that in mind, the 
Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations recommended: 
Expenditure from the Advance in addition to items already appropriated for, or new items, be permitted only in urgent and unforeseen 'circumstances. 
The above criteria be set out in the Finance Regulations made under the Audit Act. 
I pause to say so that it has some statutory backing and that it is clear that it is set out in the Finance Regulations and is to be altered only with the knowledge of the Parliament. The third recommendation states: 
The amount appropriated to the Advance in Appropriation Acts No. 1 and No. 2 be limited to 2.3 per cent of the total of the previous year's general Appropriation Acts. If the amount is exceeded, then the matter should be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations and the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure. 
Again I would interpolate that the purpose is to prevent the sort of growth which has proceeded unchecked in recent years and to limit it to the amount which in the last couple of years has been regarded as a necessary but maximum sum, so that it will not be left within the power of the Executive to put before a Parliament any amount that it may choose, without at least the Parliament having a specific opportunity to say: 'No, this has gone too far. The amount that you are wishing to appropriate for the Advance to the Minister for Finance is excessive'. The figure of 2.3 per cent was recommended in the light also of what prevails in the States, and in other countries of a similar nature to Australia. The fourth recommendation states: 
The explanations accompanying the Appropriation Bills, which are examined by Senate Estimates Committees, be accompanied by a separate section for each Department showing the funds which have already been provided from the Advance. 
I believe that is self-explanatory. The fifth recommendation states: 
A statement of approvals of expenditure from the Advance be published at the end of each calendar month and then tabled in Parliament at the earliest opportunity. The statement should indicate into which category each item of expenditure falls, i.e., whether it is expenditure to fund payments pending the issue of Governor-General 's Warrants, to make advances which will be repaid within the financial year, to make moneys available for supplementation of existing appropriations for specified purposes or to make moneys available for new services for which no specific appropriation has been made. The statement should show all expenditure which requires the creation of a new appropriation item, but only expenditure above $30,000 for the other categories. 
Those recommendations were made by the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations after having inquired in depth concerning the use of the Advance to the Minister for Finance and having received a considerable amount of evidence thereon. I believe thatbefore the Senate takes further its consideration of specific items such as those that were raised by  Senator Martin  it should consider what the rules ought to be, should lay down certain rules and should then move on to an examination of the Estimates and the use of the Advance to the Minister for Finance in the light of those rules. 
I take this opportunity to support what has been said by  Senator Douglas  McClelland,  Senator Jessop  and others in relation to the question of a parliamentary appropriation. I do not wish to go into it any further than simply to indicate that there are in this chamber other honourable senators who agree with the sentiments that have been expressed in relation to that. 

 -Mr Chairman, I seek leave to move two motions which arise out of the report of Senate Estimates B of October 1979. They relate to two different departments. For that reason, I sought to leave it until this stage to move both those motions together and to speak very briefly to them if I may. The motions follow on from recommendations made by Senate Estimates Committee B. 
Leave granted. 
Thank you,  Mr Chairman.  Senate Estimates Committee B, when considering the various departmental estimates which have been dealt with by honourable senators at some length today and yesterday, made in its report to the Senate certain recommendations. At page 3 of the Committee's report, having set out its reasons- I have no doubt that all honourable senators are familiar with the report and the reasons set out in it, so I do not need to reiterate that- it recommended:  . . that the following matter be referred to the Standing Committee on Trade and Commerce: Australia's financial contribution to, and participation in, international trade organisations. 
I move: 
That the following matter be referred to the Standing Committee on Trade and Commerce: 
Australia's financial contribution to, and participation in, international trade organisations. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Senate Estimates Committee B referred, at page 2 of its report, to the matter of legal aid, in particular legal aid in relation to the Australian Capital Territory. It stated in its report: 
The Committee therefore recommends that the following matter be referred to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs: The provision of legal aid services in the Australian Capital Territory. 
I add briefly that since that report was presented there has been some discussion on whether that reference should be extended to include consideration of legal aid generally or whether consideration should be limited to legal aid in the Australian Capital Territory. Whilst the Committee recommended that it should be limited to consideration of legal aid in the Australian Capital Territory, I am sure that the matter of legal aid generally should be considered by the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. I propose to move the motion, but to adjourn discussion on it while that Committee has a chance to look at the matter because, from what I can gather, there is a difference of opinion between some members of the Committee about whether it would be better to consider legal aid in Australia as a whole or to concentrate on the matter of legal aid in the Australian Capital Territory. The Estimates Committee recommended that it should concentrate on legal aid in the Australian Capital Territory. I will therefore move the motion in those terms and then seek leave to continue my remarks so that the matter can be dealt with at a later stage. I move: 
That the following matter be referred to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs: 
The provision of legal aid services in the Australian Capital Territory. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I do not believe that a tirade such as we have just listened to can pass without any response from this side of the chamber. The fact is that the Minister for Science and the Environment,  Senator Webster  - 
I did not interject on the honourable senator and I do not expect him to interject on me. He should let me have my say. 
At times I wonder about the sanity of some honourable senators - 

 Opposition senators interjecting- 

Just a moment. I wonder about the sanity of some honourable senators when I find us sitting here at 1 1.35 p.m., having made very little progress, having heard matters raised almost ad nauseam in an extremely repetitious way, and when someone who has not interjected wishes to respond and is not able to be heard. I shall be very brief. I wish to make the following points. I too am concerned. I join with  Senator Walsh  in his concern about what on earth is happening about Asia Dairy Industries (Hong Kong) Ltd. Since he has made reference to the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations, I can say that that Committee has had an interest in this matter and some time ago made some inquiries in relation to it. I do not take the point further as to what else the Committee may do. I join with  Senator Walsh  in being concerned about the matter, but I do not agree with his use of the sorts of descriptions which he used tonight about the people who voted on the motion which he moved. If I may say so that motion was something which was spun off the top of his head and ill-drafted. In that motion he sought to ascertain whether the Minister can give any precedent about the failure to table an Auditor-General's report. Is that a matter to do with the probity and integrity of the operation of either the Auditor-General's Office or Asia Dairy Industries? 
May I speak without continual interjection? 

 - Mr Chairman, I do not normally mind interjections. Tonight I am trying to respond to something which I feel is important and which ought to be put into perspective. I did not wish to engage in the sort of repartee that we sometimes enjoy when we get going and have plenty of time. Tonight I simply wanted to respond to  Senator Walsh. 

 Opposition senators interjecting- 


 - Mr Chairman, it is quite clear that it is not going to be possible to make a rational contribution to the consideration of a serious matter- a matter sufficiently serious for  Senator Walsh  to move a motion and to call for a division. I regret that it is not possible to have a serious discussion about it. I wish to make some points. I shall take the opportunity tomorrow if he pursues the matter raised in his motion. I simply reiterate that the motion which he moved tonight had nothing to do with the issue about which he subsequently rose and spoke. 
Earlier in the evening, on behalf of Estimates Committee B, I moved a motion relating to the reference to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs of the question of the provision of legal aid services in the Australian Capital Territory. Then I sought leave to continue my remarks and the motion was made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. Bearing in mind that we were in the Committee of the Whole and not sitting in the Senate, the procedure of having the matter made an order of" the day for the next day of sitting was not a proposition. I therefore seek leave to withdraw that motion. I will give notice of that motion in the normal way 6n the next day of sitting. 
Leave granted.  Senator  RAE- I move: 
That the motion referring the question of the provision of legal aid services in the Australian Capital Territory to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs be withdrawn. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Schedule 2 agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as whole, and agreed to. 
Report from Committee 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the following matter be referred to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs: The provision of legal aid services in the Australian Capital Territory. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That, if the Senate be not sitting when the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations has completed its third report on Statutory Authorities of the Commonwealth, the Committee may send its report to the  President  of the Senate or, if the  President  is unavailable, to the  Deputy President,  who is authorised to give directions for its printing and circulation, and in such event the  President  or  Deputy President  shall lay the report upon the Table at the next sitting of the Senate. 
That the foregoing provision of this resolution, so far as it is inconsistent with the Standing Orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in Standing Orders. 
I rise to support the legislation but to propose an amendment to the motion before the chamber. I would like to elaborate briefly why. I go through a number of steps. First, I identify that the Australian Wheat Board is a statutory authority created by the Parliament with a public function to fulfil. It has been given a degree of independence which is very substantial. That independence is given to enable the Board to fulfil a public function. However, that independence is given on a basis that the Board will be accountable through the Parliament to the people. There is no basis at all upon which authorities can be created, can have independence, but not be accountable to the Parliament which has created them. The problem that we have with the Australian Wheat Board is in relation to that matter. 
Let us accept tonight for the purposes of this discussion the desirability of having a scheme which involves a statutory authority with a power to acquire compulsorily the produce of individual people, with a responsibility to negotiate in relation to the sale of the total Australian wheat crop, with the responsibility to manage what amounts to something like $2 billion- that is $2,000m- worth of sales which, given the state of our economy, would have to be regarded as a significant amount of money to be handling, and in a position as a trustee on behalf of growers given a statutory right to acquire, a statutory obligation to sell and a statutory obligation to account. It is in relation to that statutory obligation to account that I express a degree of concern. 
The fact is that no financial statements have been produced to the Parliament by the Australian Wheat Board for the years 1 976-77 and 1 977-78. I mention that the year for the Board ends on 30 November in each year, so there are no statements for the year ending 30 November 1977 and no statements for the year ending 30 November 1978. We are now almost at the completion of another year. In other words, the Board has dealt with something like $4 billion worth of growers' assets in the period for which the Board is now long overdue to account. There is another year of activities which is just running out. So we are at the end of a third year of the activities of this Board for which there has been no accounting. In other words, the Australian Wheat Board has dealt with something like $6 billion worth of growers' funds since it last accounted for its activities. 
The Senate, concerned that there had not been any accounting by the Australian Wheat Board and the fact that no financial statements had been provided by the Wheat Board in pursuance of its accountability responsibilities, referred the matter to its appropriate committee, namely, the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations. That Committee investigated the situation and held a public hearing on 8 October. At that time it became quite clear that the Australian Wheat Board had substantial problems in organising an appropriate and efficient accounting system. However, it gave an assurance to the Committee that it would be in a position to provide financial statements for those two years within a period of two or three weeks from 8 October. What is the position now? We are in the last week of November, and until this week nothing further had been heard from the Australian Wheat Board. There had been no communication explaining why it had not fulfilled its assurance, no documents had been provided by way of financial statements, and there had been nothing further by way of an acknowledgement of its responsibility to account to the people through the Parliament. 
It becomes obvious that the public protestations which were made at the public hearing on 8 October by the representatives of the Australian Wheat Board, indicating that they had a full understanding of their obligations to have an effective and appropriate accounting system, to provide full accountability to the Parliament, to report regularly, to provide financial statements which have been audited and which are in order, were just words so far as this Board was concerned. If we had not inquired this week in an effort to find out why we had not heard anything, it may be assumed that we would still have no knowledge as to what had gone wrong and why the assurance given on 8 October that the financial statements would be prepared and presented within two weeks had not been fulfilled. This week, as a result of inquiries, we received a telex from the Australian Wheat Board which stated: 
The financial statements for year ended 1977, in a basic format were presented to the internal audit department of the Australian Wheat Board mid October 1979 and following a preliminary review of these statements it was decided by the Australian Wheat Board management that the indicated 2-3 weeks target for completion, advised to the Committee in evidence on 8th October, was no longer practicable. 
Following this preliminary review, it was decided by management on the 30th October 1979 that responsibility for the preparation of financial statements for the years 1976-77, 1977-78 and 1978-79 would be assigned to the Board's senior administrative inspector,  Mr D.  R. Hulme together with  Mr L.  A. Goulding, a consultant with financial statement experience who had been employed by the Board to assist in the preparation of financial statements. 
The telex also states: 
The revised timetable for the preparation of financial statements is as follows: 1976- 77- to Commonwealth audit for review- 1st half December 1979-presented to Parliament- during February 1980; 1977- 78-to Commonwealth audit for review-early February 1980- presented to Parliament-during March 1980. 
I remind honourable senators that on 8 October the Australian Wheat Board gave an assurancepresumably one which it had considered, presumably one which it believed to be practicable, presumably one which it believed could be relied upon- that it could produce the reports for both of those years within the period of two to three weeks. Now it appears that they will not be available until February or March next year. When that matter became known considerable concern was expressed by people such as my colleague,  Senator Young,  from South Australia who has had a long association with the wheat industry and wheat grower organisations. When years go by without any accounting by those who are in the position and with the responsibility to acquire compulsorily, to sell and to account and when they have not provided financial statements the question that arises to  Senator Young  and to many others is whether the growers are receiving that to which they are entitled. Are growers being fairly treated? How can anyone judge if financial statements are not made available? 
It is quite clear that the Australian Wheat Board has failed to account to the Parliament and through the Parliament to the people. It has failed to manage its affairs efficiently on behalf of the wheat growers of Australia. In other words, it is in breach of the trust which is given to it as the trustees of a scheme on behalf of people in which it is given powers in return for its carrying out of obligations. It has failed dismally to display even the courtesy which might reasonably have been expected of a responsible statutory authority in relation to the Parliament. It has not even bothered, having given assurances to one of the parliamentary committees that it would account, to tell the committee that it could not or would not account. 
In my view, the situation is not one to be ignored, particularly when we are dealing with legislation that provides for a new and extended scheme of which the Board to which I have referred is to be the manager. It must put its house in order. The Senate should note the position and express its reaction and intention in relation to the Board's future operations. As has been indicated in the speeches, we believe that in the interests of Australian wheat growers this scheme should go ahead, but we must also ensure that we do not permit those who are placed in a position of trust in administering the scheme to ignore their accounting responsibilities on behalf of the growers, the Parliament and the public. On behalf of the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations, and on my own behalf, I move: 
At the end of motion, add, but the Senate, bearing in mind the importance of timely and full accountability by statutory authorities and the interests of wheat growers in Australia, is of the opinion that the Australian Wheat Board has: 
failed to fulfil its statutory responsibility to provide financial statements to the Parliament in respect of the years 1976-77 and 1977-78; 
failed to honour an assurance given to the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations on 8 October 1979, to complete the preparation of their financial statements within two to three weeks; and 
failed to observe both its accountability obligations and normal courtesy in that it did not inform the 
Senate Committee or the Parliament of its management decision that the assurance was 'not practicable' nor of its decision taken on 30 October 1979 to adopt a changed approach to the preparation of its financial statements, and that they will not now be available for presentation to the Parliament until February 1980 for the 1976-77 financial statements, and March 1 980 for the 1 977-78 financial statements; 
And, further, the Senate expresses its intention to take all necessary steps to ensure that full accountability to the Parliament and the Australian wheatgrowers is adhered to by the Australian Wheat Board. 
I refer to the report of Senate Estimates Committee B, dated October 1979. For the reasons which are set out in the body of that report, I move: 
That the following matter be referred to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs: The provision of legal aid services in the Australian Capital Territory. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 8 November 1979: 
1 ) How many proposed (non-employment substituting) schemes have been evaluated by the Office of Youth Affairs or the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs since December 1977, which would involve the creation of a fully or partly Government funded volunteer corps for 
one year or more of voluntary service in Australia; 
one year or more of voluntary service outside Australia; and 
a combination of both internal and external service. 
Who were the authors or originators of each individual proposed scheme from: 
within; and 
outside, the Commonwealth bureaucracy. 
How many volunteers did each individual scheme envisage would be engaged in each 12 months for the 3 years' operation of each such scheme. 
What was the estimated cost to: 
Government; and 
non-Government, sources of each proposed scheme in each 12 months for the first 3 years' operation of each such scheme. 
What were the major activities in which volunteers within each proposed scheme would be engaged: 
a ) within Australia; and 
b ) outside Australia. 
What was the specified age group, if any, of volunteers participating within each proposed scheme. 
asked the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 14 November 1979: 
1 ) How many letters of complaint have been received by: (a) the Department of Science and the Environment or its predecessor, and (b) the Government, in relation to the introduction of Metric Conversion, since January 1 976. 
) What have been the principal areas of complaint. 
What is the total number of: (a) petitions; and (b) signatures on petitions, lodged in both Houses of the Federal Parliament since the first Parliamentary Session in 1976, protesting at aspects of the implementation of Metric Conversion. 
When were those petitions lodged. 
Did the Government establish an Inter-departmental Committee to assess the implications, impact and costs of the implementation of Metric Conversion, or for some other related purpose; if so (a) what is the nature of any such other related purpose; (b) when was the Committee first established, and when did it first formally meet; (c) which Government Departments or Statutory Authorities have been represented on the Committee; (d) which officers have represented Government Departments or Statutory Authorities on the Committee; (e) did the Inter-departmental Committee undertake, or instigate the preparation of, a costbenefit analysis on the implementation of Metric Conversion in those areas where conversion is not yet complete, and if not, why not; (f) when did the Minister receive the findings of the Inter-departmental Committee, or when does he expect to receive its findings; and (g) when will those findings be presented to the Parliament. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 13 November 1979: 
I ) What Commonwealth legislation provides the framework  for  the provision of funds, services and programs to, or for, young Australians in all areas of Commonwealth Government activity. 
Which Commonwealth or State Department or agencies administer those services or the provision of these funds. 
What Commonwealth services or Commonwealth funded programs and services are being funded in the financial year 1979-80. 
How much is being allocated in 1 979-80 to the services and programs mentioned above. 
How many young Australians are expected to benefit from these services and programs in 1979-80. 
