 Would you like us to hold ourselves available for a meeting on, say, 15lh, subject to events at the Commonwealth level? 
So there we set the date. It is true that at a later stage the Western Australian Minister for Mines and Minister for Justice.  Mr Griffith,  said: 'We realise this may be a difficult timetable for you. We have agreed that, subject to the Commonwealth's accepting the titles that we issue in the meantime, we can go on until such agreement is arrived at. Therefore, we would not press you to hold that meeting exactly on that date'. This was the situation at that time. I was staggered when the Governor-General announced in his Speech that the understandings I had with the States and the undertakings I had made were to be completely abrogated. J did everything within my power to see that the Government realised that I believed 1 had made this statement and this commitment and that many others also believed I bad made this statement and this commitment, f did everything possible to see the Prime Minister. I saw him on a couple of occasions. I saw the  Deputy  Prime Minister. I have taken this matter to the Party room on 2 occasions. I have discussed it with the person who recently retired as the State  President  of my Party. I have discussed it with the chief organiser of my Party in New South Wales and with the national development committee of the Government Parties when the Minister for National Development, the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Hughes)  and a senior State officer were in attendance. 
I believe I made this commitment and I have tried to convince everyone that I made it, but I have just run into a wall of resistance. I have been told: 'You are quite wrong. You may have thought you did it, but we know better'. A whispering campaign has ensued with claims that so and so is said to have had a look at these minutes and he believes that what the honourable member for Farrer has said is not right. So, having finally exhausted every process available to me and the legislation having been introduced in this House and the documents having been tabled, I felt that it was encumbent upon me. having exhausted every other alternative, to say in this House that 1 believed a commitment had been made. That is what I am now saying. 1 beleieve it would be very easy for the Government, given a little bit of goodwill and commonsense, to overcome this problem. 1 believe that it should withdraw the Bill which has been introduced. There is no urgency about this matter. To the best of my knowledge the only off-shore mining which is being undertaken anywhere n Australia is in relation to a very small amount of coal which is being mined under the sea off the coast of New South Wales. So there is no immediate urgency. There are 40 or more Bills on the notice paper. The Government should temporarily withdraw this legislation go back to the Stales and negotiate with them. It should say to the States: 'If we bring in this Bill and if, by litigation, it is proved that we have authority over these areas, we will hand back to you, as has been done in the United States, control of the territorial waters'. Surely the matter could be resolved upon this basis? Unfortunately, it has been completely impossible for me to get anywhere in relation to it. 
I conclude by saying that I believe that these machinations have brought about an enormous amount of ill will between the Commonwealth and the States. This may be considered a small matter by some people, but I do not believe that it is. It is a matter of the Government's integrity. I believe that what I have said is correct. 
If I were the only one to think this way I would have some second thoughts about the matter. I would think that perhaps English does not mean what I think it means. But I am not the only one. Every Minister for Mines in Australia believes that I made a commitment. I think it is virtually true to say that every State AttorneyGeneral believes this, but I would not be certain because I have not checked it with them. But one of them has said that there was an arrant and considered breach of faith in this matter. The Deputy Leader of the Liberal Party in one of the States said this. Therefore, I am not the only one who thinks there has been a breach of faith. 
The Opposition has considered the matter and it believes me. Of course the unfortunate thing is that the Opposition is playing politics. We should recognise this fact. The hyenas on the Opposition side of the chamber are just sitting there waiting for blood. This places any honourable member in a most awkward position. Many people have run away from what they thought was their duty in a parliament just because they have been able to say: Perhaps we do not agree with what the Government is doing, but just think what a dreadful thing it would be if the Opposition were ever to come in.' I agree. I can think of no worse fate than for the Labor Party to be on the treasury bench. But I believe also that there is the matter of my honour and that I must support the amendment that has been brought in by the honourable member for Dawson. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I rise to support the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply. At the outset I ask you to convey my very warm congratulations to  Mr Speaker  on his elevation to his high office. I am sure that the very wide experience of the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden)  and his good humoured nature will ensure that he discharges his duties as  Speaker  of this House in a very creditable way and in a way that will reflect great credit not only upon himself but also upon the House of Representatives. I also wish to congratulate the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock),  on again being elected  Deputy Speaker  and  Chairman  of Committees of the House of Representatives. The honourable member for Lyne has had a very long and distinguished experience in this House and has occupied the position of  Deputy Speaker  and  Chairman  of Committees for a long time. The House is fortunate to have his services available to it. 
I am grateful also for the opportunity of conveying my congratulations to the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  and the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite),  the mover and seconder of the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply, and also to other maiden speakers. We have had a very long list of maiden speakers on this occasion and I join with other honourable members in conveying my congratulations to those whom I would regard as fellow maiden speakers on this occasion. 
I think at this time it is appropriate to record one's thanks to the members of the Parliament House staff and the public servants with whom we aU come in contact. Those of us who have had experience in the parliamentary field know only too well that no member of Parliament can adequately discharge his responsibilities and duties to his constituents without the full co-operation and assistance of these people. I also wish to pass on a message of congratulations to a group of people who perhaps it is not traditional to congratulate at this time. I refer to the Government itself. It is many years since a government has come into office in this country to face so many problems as face the government of the day 
The division of Farrer which I now have the honour to represent in the House of Representatives in an important part of rural Australia. It embraces the country cities of Albury and Wagga, a number of country towns and villages and some of the best farming land in the nation. This division was created in 1949 when the Par.liament was enlarged. Until the last election the Division had been represented by only one member, the honourable David Eric Fairbairn, DFC, an outstanding Australian who served his nation with distinction in war and in peace. He served in this chamber for some 26 years- nine of those years as a Minister. On my own behalf and on behalf of the constituents of Farrer I wish to place on record our thanks for his services and our congratulations for his achievements. 
I also wish to express to the constituents of Farrer my own appreciation of the confidence they have shown in me. Some of them I have had the honour to represent for the past 18 years in the New South Wales Parliament but those who reside in the southern part of the Division I am representing for the first time. As well as being concerned with a large number of broad issues, members of this chamber on both sides of the House are concerned with a large number of issues that concern only the division which each honourable member represents. The honourable member for Farrer is no exception in this instance. I am sure that all members of this House, from both metropolitan and country areas in both the east and west of Australia welcome the decision of the Government, which was referred to in the Governor-General's Speech, to include local government in its new tax sharing policy. AU of us who have been associated with local government realise that this tier of government has been the poor relation for many years and each year additional responsibilities are being heaped upon it. I believe that the decision taken by the Fraser Government to include local government in its tax sharing policy will help tremendously in overcoming many of the financial difficulties that face it. 
One of the regional centres within the Division of Farrer- Wagga- has a population of some 33 000 and a growth rate of 3.2 per cent per annum. This, for a country centre, is a substantial growth rate. Tremendous pressures are placed upon the local government authority and the resources of the City of Wagga as a result of this growth rate. Without financial assistance from other than the traditional ratepayer source it is virtually impossible for the Wagga City Council to keep pace with the development that is taking place. I know that what I am saying in relation to Wagga within my own constituency applies to many other country centres throughout Australia. The honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten)  has Wangaratta within his constituency. I notice the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  nodding approvingly as he thinks of Griffith, Leeton, Narrandera and the other centres throughout the constituency of Riverina. 
Like my colleague the honourable member for Indi I am very concerned about the development of the Albury- Wodonga complex. I am deeply interested and involved in matters associated with the development of the Albury- Wodonga complex. I strongly support this great growth centre project. But at the same time I realise that the speed at which the complex develops will depend largely upon the Government's ability to provide funds at this difficult time and the interests and confidence shown by the private enterprise sector. I believe also that the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Senator Greenwood)  must review a number of matters associated with the development of this complex as quickly as possible. 
Obviously the basic aim of growth centres is to provide a brake on the growth of the major cities of the Commonwealth by stimulating development in selected decentralised locations. In Albury- Wodonga, although much planning has been undertaken and large sums of money spent, mainly on land acquisition- I understand that some $60m has been spent on land acquisition in the Albury-Wodonga area- development has not yet greatly accelerated. As a result, concern is being expressed locally about some aspects of the project. A review of the guidelines of the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation is urgently needed to strengthen confidence. Consideration needs to be given to providing more opportunity for local decision making by means other than through the Ministerial Council on the Development of Albury-Wodonga and the advisory committees. I believe that consideration ought to be given to reconstructing the Corporation or, alternatively, establishing a review board to replace the consultative Council. I believe also that it is imperative that industry be given the choice between leasehold and freehold land. At present only leasehold land is available for industry to develop in the Albury-Wodonga complex, and this is an inhibiting factor. Private enterprise must be encouraged. It is not my view that it is necessary for government to undertake every aspect of the development of this growth centre. I do not believe it is desirable for governments to undertake projects which can be the responsibility of private organisations and individuals. 
Concern is also being expressed regarding the need for tertiary education facilities. The former Government said that it would build a university in the area, but no headway has been made in 3 years. Up until the present the Universities Commission has not recommended the establishment of a university for Albury-Wodonga. I await the outcome of the decisions for university education for the 1977-79 triennium. If a decision is not made to commence a university in AlburyWodonga during the next triennium the Minister for Education in my view should ask the  Chairman  of the Commission on Advanced Education and the  Chairman  of the Technical and Further Education Commission to advise on how tertiary education facilities can be best provided for Albury-Wodonga until a university is a viable proposition. The establishment of a community college is one proposal that could be examined. The establishment in Albury of a second campus for the Riverina College of Advanced Education is another proposal that could be investigated. This proposal is one which I believe would be viable and if necessary it could provide a first stage for an autonomous institution later to be provided in Albury-Wodonga. 
As has already been pointed out, traditionally honourable members do not interrupt an honourable member delivering his maiden speech. I must say that I find this experience somewhat strange this evening but I am deeply conscious of the fact that the courtesy is being extended to me. I do not wish to take advantage of the situation by being unnecessarily provocative. Of course there will be occasions for this at a more appropriate time. However, I wish to enter a plea for the individual. Members of Parliament and in particular Ministers who have very heavy responsibilities and work loads - 
Debate interrupted. 
When the debate was interrupted, I was entering a plea for the individual and I was saying that Ministers who have a very heavy responsibility and a workload which forces them to work extremely long hours can become so immersed in the business of government on occasions that they unintentionally put the State before the individual. In the case of the former Government, I am inclined to the view that there is a great deal of evidence to suggest that at least on the part of some Ministers, this was a conscious policy. During the last 3 years, people throughout Australia grew tired and even became apprehensive of the dictatorial attitude that was adopted by some members of the then Government. I believe that we must always remember that laws are made for men and women and not men and women for the law and that governments are the servants of the people, not their masters. 
How were the primary producers and their families rated by the former Govenment? Mostly they were ignored. When they were not being ignored, they were being insulted. Surely the government of the day was aware of the general downturn in the rural economy. Surely it was aware that the Bureau of Agricultural Economics has estimated that the net real farm income adjusted for inflation in 1975-76 would be $750m compared with $l,109m in 1974-75 and $2,042m in 1973-74. This is the lowest figure in the past 15 years and represents a drop of nearly two-thirds in 2 years. Why did the former Government treat the primary producer and the rural dwellers as the redundant section of the community? It not only virtually ignored the individual primary producer's plight, but in my view it also paid scant attention to one of the greatest industries and the industry upon which this country has developed and will continue to develop in the future. It is an industry that is responsible for some 50 per cent of our export earnings. This attitude is repugnant to the vast majority of Australians. 
The Governor-General, in his Speech, placed great emphasis on the needs of the individual and the importance of the individual in our democracy. Many lessons can be learned from Labor's last 3 years in Government. One important lesson is that democratically elected governments are the servants of the people and that the  individual is the most important element in a democracy. I was pleased therefore to note that one of His Excellency's concluding and keynote remarks was a  delaration  of the attitude of the Government in this regard. The GovernorGeneral said: 
The Government is not concerned with power for itself. It is the servant of the Australian people. Its purpose is to work with the people to create an Australian democracy which will be an example to the world of what a free people can achieve. 
Also included in the Governor-General's address was a reference to the Government's concern for housing in this country. I believe that every Australian has the right to own his own home if he so desires. When the Menzies Government came into office in 1 949, 54 per cent of Australians were living in homes that they either owned or were buying. When the McMahon Government went out of office in 1972, 75 per cent of Australians were living in homes that they either owned or were buying. I regret to remind this House that in the 3-year period in which Labor was in office, the figure has fallen to something like 64 per cent. I believe that this is due to policies that were enforced by the Labor Government during those 3 years in office. I believe it was because of conscious policy to encourage more and more people to live in rented accommodation and to become dependent upon the Government. I feel sure that it will be the policy of this Government to encourage personal initiative and to give people an opportunity when they desire to own their home. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Donald  Cameron) adjourned. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, concerns the plight of unemployed women and men who are suffering hardship as a result of 3 years of economic mismanagement by the former Labor Government. I ask: Will the Minister inform the House whether he has brought to the attention of the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and other trade union officials the fact that there is a nexus between wage costs and job opportunities? If so, did he receive a favourable response? If not, will the Minister continue to press this matter in the interests of the unemployed who are seeking jobs and who have been badly let down by the Labor movement? 
I ask the Prime Minister: Is unemployment a serious national problem and is this situation causing hardship and distress to thousands of Australian women and men who wish to work? Has the Government been consistent in its efforts to reduce record postwar unemployment inherited from the previous Government? Are the fiscal measures included in this year's Budget designed to reduce unemployment? 
My question, which is directed to the Prime Minister, relates to the incredible decision of the New South Wales Premier to meddle in Australia's defence and foreign affairs by banning visits by U.S.S.  Truxtun  to New South Wales ports. I ask the Prime Minister whether he agrees that it is in the interests of Australian security to allow nuclear powered and conventional ships of the United States Navy to use Australian ports. Can the Government take any action to avoid a situation again arising where a State Premier can determine an issue involving Australian defence and foreign policy? 
-If the subject matter of this debate was not a serious matter we would have to regard the move by the Opposition this afternoon to bring before the Parliament the questions that have been raised as probably the most humorous act since the House assembled in February. The honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  and indeed the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  spent a great deal of their time personally attacking the  Deputy  Leader of this Government, the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony). Mr Acting Speaker,  I put it to you that these men are not in any position to attack our Minister for his performances in his portfolio. Indeed, the problems that are confronting him and the problems with which he has come to grips are problems that have been brought about by the ineptitude of the former Administration. 
The honourable member for Cunningham did 2 tilings of note, and he will always be remembered for them. First of all, he abused the men who built the Australian mining industry to what it was when he assumed office in 1972. He called them hillbillies. But he did not stop at that. He turned on the customer. When I was in Japan in 1974 1 was asked by leaders in the Japanese steel industry whether I knew what the first principle of business was. I said that I thought I knew what the first principle of business was, but what were they getting at? They said that in their language the first principle of business was never to insult the customer. They said: 'We were recently in Canberra talking to your Federal Minister and we were insulted like we were never insulted in any other part of the world '. 
During his address the honourable member for Cunningham attacked the  Deputy  Prime Minister in relation to iron ore contracts. It may be that the honourable member for Cunningham is now out of date. It may be that he is unaware that private enterprise has just negotiated new iron ore contracts, without government assistance or interference, at a price which is 35 per cent above the previous level. Over the next 18 months the returns will be 35 per cent more than they were under the previous contracts. 
That is without government help and without government interference. The honourable member for Cunningham then attacked in a personal way the  Deputy  Prime Minister. He said that he was a little man in a big job. The honourable member for Cunningham is a big man with an iron hand who moves like a tank without any sense of direction. That is the way in which he conducted the portfolio for which he was responsible when he was a Minister. He was a man who would not even negotiate. During the whole of the time he was Minister for Minerals and Energy he did not meet with the Australian Minerals Council, which is the body which consists of the Federal Minister and State 
Ministers responsible for such matters. He refused time and time again to meet with them. 
I support what the  Deputy  Prime Minister said in relation to the handling by the former Government of the petroleum industry. Not only will it be to the everlasting discredit of the former Administration what occurred to the petroleum industry whilst it was in office, but also it will be to the cost of this nation for many years to come. In just under 3 years the former Administration brought the petroleum industry to a point of near collapse. Between 1973 and 1975 there was a rapid decline in exploration. The former Administration has an obsession about foreign capital and foreign activity. Indeed, when I remind members of the former Administration that 2 major international companies withdrew from oil exploration in Australia during the period they were in office- I refer to Gulf Oil Exploration and Continental- they will probably say: 'That is a good thing. That was part of their aim '. But was it part of their aim to also drive the Australian companies out of oil search in Australia? If that was not part of their aim, they certainly succeeded in doing it. During their period of office there was a transfer of activities by Australian companies to foreign countries. Beach went to Turkey; Southern Pacific Petroleum went to Italy; Endeavour went to the Philippines; AOG, AAR and Target in combination went to the North Sea; and Associated Australian Resources went to Indonesia. That is the achievement of the former Administration. All these are Australian companies that were engaged in oil exploration before the former Administration came into office. It drove them, with their expertise and with their capital, out of Australia, to undertake exploration overseas. 
There have been no commercial discoveries of oil since 1970 and known reserves in this country have been depleted by 33 per cent. Only last night the  Deputy  Prime Minister told this House that if no additional discoveries of indigenous crude oil are made by 1985 the volume of petroleum that will have to be imported is estimated to be 200 million barrels, at a cost of at least $2,000m, representing about 62 per cent of our petroleum requirements compared with 31 per cent in 1975. Australia did not feel the full effects of the energy crisis a couple of years ago because previously the former Liberal-Country Party Administration had encouraged oil search and there had been a measure of success. But during the 3 years that Labor was in office, under the stewardship of the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor),  at a time when every other nation in the world was doing everything it could to build up its reserves of petroleum, the Labor Administration brought petroleum exploration to a halt. 
Today we have had two New South Wales members speaking for the Opposition in this debate. They had the audacity to mention coal, coming as they do from New South Wales, where the bulk of the coal that is produced comes from underground mines which, of course, are less competitive than the open cut mines of Queensland. What did they do? They put on an export levy- $6 a tonne for the high quality coal and $2 a tonne for the lower quality coal. They succeeded in deferring- I hope only for a short time- the opening of new mines in New South Wales as a result of the imposition of this export coal levy. It is arrant humbug that the Opposition has taken part in this afternoon; it is humbug for them to come here and be critical of this Government and of the Deputy Prime Minister, because they are the guilty men in relation to the depletion of this industry. 
I rise to support the Budget and to oppose the amendment that has been moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  Before I proceed with my remarks I want to make a number of references to the speech of the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  who, obviously, from the outset was determined to do his best to confuse the public of Australia. In his efforts to confuse the public he has obviously confused himself with his own figuring. I will give one example. In his discussions about the level of taxation the honourable member for Blaxland overlooked the fact that as a result of this Budget there will be over $ 1,000m in the pockets of Australian taxpayers that would not have been in their pockets if the Labor Administration had remained in office and pursued the same budgetary aims as it was endeavouring to achieve when it went out of office. 
Since this Budget was introduced on 17 August honourable members opposite have seized every opportunity to refer to the high rate of unemployment. This evening the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les McMahon)  raised the question of the high rate of unemployment. On each occasion on which honourable members opposite have done so they have done it in a way that is critical of this Government. They have even gone to the absurd extent of suggesting by way of an amendment to the motion for the second reading of this Bill that the Government is pursuing a policy of unemployment as a weapon to reduce real wages and salaries. Indeed, the honourable member for Sydney said that in this chamber this evening. That is rubbish. It is particularly so when one takes into consideration that it has come from the people who are responsible for the unemployment situation that we have in Australia today, which is the worst since the Great Depression. 
It is nonsense for any member of the Labor Opposition to be critical of this Government's management of the economy, especially its efforts in the employment field. I want to refer very briefly to a speech that was made late in 1972 by the then and the now Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  It was the policy speech of the then Leader of the Opposition. He started off by addressing the ' men and women of Australia'. After a few moments he changed the manner of address used his introduction to 'my fellow citizens'. He then posed some questions. Among the questions that he posed to his fellow citizens he asked: 
Will you again entrust the nation's economy to the men who deliberately but needlessly created Australia 's worst unemployment for 10 years? 

 - Mr Whitlam, the then and the now Leader of the Opposition. He said it in 1972, just before he came to office.  His  second question was: 
Or to the same men who have presided over the worst inflation for 20 years? 
I ask: What happened after  Mr Whitlam  came to office at the end of 1972? Between 1962 and 1972- a period of 10 years- the average rate of inflation in Australia was 3.4 per cent. That is the rate of inflation of which  Mr Whitlam  was critical. In the 12 months prior to December 1972 the rate of inflation in Australia was 4.5 per cent. In the 12 months prior to December 1975 the rate of inflation increased dramatically, at the great expense of all Australians, to 14 per cent. The man who in 1972 was critical of a 10-year average of 3.4 per cent presided over an inflation rate of 14 per cent. Yet the honourable member for Blaxland, who has just resumed his seat, had the audacity this evening in this House to criticise the inflation rate that presently prevails. He said that this Government promised to reduce inflation. 
In a short time it has made an impact. In August the inflation rate was running at 12.3 per cent and there was a firm forecast by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  that by the end of this financial year it will be down to a single digit figure. During the 10 years prior to 1972 Australia had a good record in the fields of inflation and employment in comparison with the rest of the world. Speaking of employment, I point out that it is one of the subjects to which members of the Opposition give lip service- I emphasise the words 'lip service'- but no other service. In relation to unemployment, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  reminded the House a few moments ago that when his Government left office in December 1 972 the number of unemployed in this country was just over 1 30 000 or approximately 2.4 per cent of the work force. 
The then Opposition was saying that the then Liberal-Country Party Government had deliberately but needlessly created Australia's worst unemployment for 10 years. That is what the then Leader of the Opposition said about an unemployment rate of 2.4 per cent of the work force. But by December 1975 the number of unemployed had risen from the figure that I have just given to 328 705 or 5.4 per cent of the work force. An unemployment rate of 5.4 per cent of the work force was achieved by the predecessors of this Government. In August of this year the figure was down to 267 886 or 4.4 per cent of the work force. I submit that honourable members opposite are in no position to criticise this Government about inflation or unemployment. 
Surely the least informed honourable members opposite must know that the economy revolves around confidence. Almost overnightin record time- the former Labor Government miraculously destroyed confidence in this country. That confidence cannot be restored overnight, as it was destroyed overnight. A long and difficult road must be travelled by this country before the damage of the last 3 years is fully repaired. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said before the elections that it would take 3 years to right the economy. I believe that it will take all of that time. When this is achieved- it will be achieved- it will be to the lasting credit of this Government, which has applied itself to a most difficult task in a positive and creditable manner since its election to office on 13 December, just 9 months ago. Another lesson that the Opposition must learn and that the trade union movement must learn is that there is a definite nexus between wage rates and job opportunities and that unless there is restraint in that field there will be further unemployment. It is no good our hedging on this issue because one man's increase in salary could well be another man's job. 
The main thrust of this Budget and of the Government's other economic measures is to bring inflation under control. One of the ways in which it is seeking to achieve that basic objective is by the application of restraint in the public sector and by exercising tight control over the deficit. This is being criticised by honourable members opposite; yet it is necessary in the fight against inflation and to foster the expansion of the private sector, which the honourable member for Blaxland said is being featherbedded by the Government. Has the honourable member for Blaxland fallen into the same error as his Leader did when his Leader was Prime Minister? Has he forgetten that the private sector is the greatest employer of labour? In June of this year 72.8 per cent of the work force was employed, in the private sector and 27.2 per cent was employed in the Government sector. Honourable members opposite say that they believe in full employment; yet they are prepared to scuttle, they are prepared to impede and they are prepared to tie the hands of the private sector behind its back. I repeat that the private sector is the part of the economy that is responsible for the employment of 72.8 per cent of the workforce. Honourable members opposite have overlooked that because of their obsession with socialism and their obsession with making every large enterprise a government enterprise and every other enterprise dependent upon the government. 
I turn to 2 industries in particular which Labor was obsessed to cripple- mining and agriculture. I could never understand, and .tonight I can not understand, why the Labor Government delighted in restraining these 2 industries and ridiculing those engaged in them. The miners, the people who built the great mining industry in Australia, the people who put up the risk capital, the people who took the chances were described as hillbillies by the Minister who was responsible for the minerals industry in the previous Government. Farmers were and still are suffering the adverse effects of inflation. They are forced to compete on world markets and at the same time produce in an inflated economy. Many were and many are still on the verge of bankruptcy. They were told: 'You've never had it so good'. That was what was said by an unsympathetic and an ill informed Prime Minister of a Labor government. 
Surely industries that together are responsible for approximately 84 per cent of Australia's export income are worthy of support from even a socialist government. Even now, even tonight, Labor spokesmen have reminded this House that the work force is small in these industries when compared with the work force in secondary industries. By implication, they have suggested that this Government should do the same as the Labor Government did. They overlook that these are basic local industries as well as export income earners, and without them we have no secondary industry potential and no funds for imports. Nevertheless, although the mining industries and the agricultural industries are small employers when compared with the manufacturing industries, they employ directly 10.2 per cent of the work force and, as I said a moment ago, agriculture and mining together are responsible for 84 per cent of our export earnings. 
They play a major part in Queensland. The mining industries and the agricultural industries are responsible for Australia being the nation that it is today. The people of Australia, and indeed the people sitting opposite in this House, must never forget that it all comes out of the ground in the first place. I am pleased that this Government has recognised the importance of these 2 vital industries. Without apology, indeed with pride, I draw attention to the provisions that have been made in this Budget. The taxation concessions which the honourable member for Blaxland reminded us would cost something like $60m in a full year I believe will stimulate the mining and the petroleum industries. As a result, these 2 industries will be able again to make a significant, indeed a major contribution to the development of this country. These are industries requiring huge amounts of risk capital and unless production and marketing guidelines are clearly spelt out, taxation incentives provided and an inflow of capital permitted under policies acceptable to Australia, Labor government induced stagnation in these industries will remain at great long term cost to Australia. 
The honourable member for Blaxland, who is the Opposition's spokesman on minerals, skated around the question of overseas involvement in our mining industries. What he failed to draw attention to was the fact that his Government did not have a recognisable policy in this field. He complained tonight about the Liberal and National Country parties not having policies in Opposition. In government his Government did not have a recognisable policy other than one that seemed to be designed to cripple the oil and mining industries in addition to the agricultural industries. I reminded the House in another debate a week or so ago that no fewer than 5 Australian exploring companies are now exploring overseas in Turkey, Italy, the Philippines, the North Sea and Indonesia because they could not get the encouragement to remain here. I am talking about Australian companies, not foreign owned companies which seem to bug honourable members opposite. 
I turn back to the agricultural industries. There is great sadness in rural Australia today. It is a matter of great regret that this sadness is not being recognised in our great cities. As I move around Sydney and Melbourne I find that there is a lack of understanding of the real problem that exists today. I have had the privilege of representing rural constituents for almost 20 years, and I have never witnessed the poverty that I am witnessing today in rural Australia. So many people feel that what is being said about rural industries is a matter of exaggeration. I know of families in my constituency which have now reached the stage of purchasing groceries only. 'Groceries only' is the order of the day in the economy of many rural families today. So I make no apology tonight for the benefits, the concessions and the assistance afforded by the Government in the Budget. The only comment I would make about those concessions is that the Government, through its various committees and through the appropriate departments, needs to conduct further investigations into these fields, because still more needs to be done in the agricultural industrial area of Australia. It is needed for 2 basic reasons: Firstly, because it is in Australia's interests to keep strong agricultural industries; and secondly, because hardship is being perpetuated on people who are in the agricultural industries of Australia. 
Has the Attorney-General seen recent reports which indicate that the New South Wales Attorney-General,  Mr Walker,  has described family law in New South Wales as a judicial cross-country course and an untidy jumble of jurisdictions? Does the AttorneyGeneral agree with this view? Has he any suggestions to make which would assist the New South Wales Attorney-General to run the course and clear the jumble? 
-This debate will do nothing to enhance confidence in AlburyWodonga. It is politically mischievous on the part of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  and on the part of the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  who have taken part on this debate on behalf of the Opposition this afternoon. It is designed to confuse the situation further and as a result of this added confusion it will destroy confidence in the area of Albury-Wodonga. I deplore the activity of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Hughes in acting in this way. To suggest, as did the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, that the Liberal and National Country Parties do not have a policy on decentralisation is rubbish. The Liberal and Country Parties have a considerable history of interest in decentralisation. The Commonwealth-State Committee which reported on decentralisation in 1972 before the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition's Government came into office was established as a Commonwealth initiative, and the Government of the day, the Liberal-National Country Party Government established the national urban and regional development authority. The new Government subsequently introduced an ambitious growth centre program. In a statement on 20 May 1 976, referring to this program, the Treasurer announced: 
Although the activities carried out under many of these programs are desirable, the programs do involve large and continuing expenditures. 
The Treasurer went on to announce the establishment of an interdepartmental committee to review this and other urban and regional programs. The Minister  (Mr Newman)  referred to this this afternoon. 
There are a number of strands to the consideration of decentralisation issues. A review of decentralisation policy would necessarily cover the future of the growth centres program; assistance for other country centres; the provision of Commonwealth and State services in nonmetropolitan areas, including the investigation of the concept of identifying regional centres for the focus of the provision of a range of Government services such as social security, taxation and the Commonwealth Employment Service. Any Commonwealth policy must be consistent with federalism and the responsibilities that this Government has under other spheres throughout the government administration of this country. 
To suggest, as did the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, that this Government has breached its obligations to the States is humbug. 
I was surprised this afternoon to hear the honourable member for Hughes make a comment in relation to the establishment of a university in Albury-Wodonga, because it was only in August 1975 that the Australian Universities Commission was instructed by the then Minister for Education,  (Mr Beazley),  that all new initiatives involving financial assistance for universities should be deferred. The honourable member for Hughes also referred to the possibility of transferring departments to Albury-Wodonga. He implied that this was a broken promise on the part of this Government. I want to remind the House that at the last election the Government gave a clear undertaking that the compulsory transfer out of Canberra proposed by the previous Whitlam Government would not proceed. I understand that that undertaking stands. The Government saw no need to transfer staff compulsorily out of Canberra. Clearly it would not be responsible to undertake a transfer program in advance of major decisions on the nature of our decentralisation programs. 
The Albury-Wodonga development agreement requires that the 3 Governments approve each year a 5-year development plan for the development of growth centres. The Minister has said that this plan is well advanced and all that is required is for the Commonwealth to determine, in conjunction with the Victorian and New South Wales governments, a program for 1976-77. Whatever funding arrangements are agreed between governments for the ensuing 4 years, I am sure that the development plan can be approved, which reflects the intention of governments to review the basis on which the project is presently financed. The Opposition suggestion that the Government is in breach of the existing agreement is totally irresponsible. Its action in bringing on this debate today will have the effect of adding to uncertainty and further dampening the confidence of private investors. 
The honourable member for Hughes referred to the irresponsible statement that was made by the Victorian Opposition Leader,  Mr Holding,  when he suggested that the Victorian Government take the Commonwealth Government to the High Court over the Commonwealth action in relation to the Albury-Wodonga area development agreement. This is not the way for Federal-State negotiations to be conducted, nor is it the way in which a proper federalism policy can be implemented. Together with other honourable members in this House- indeed with the Minister- I regret the delay that has taken place but I emphasise that it has been a necessary delay. As the member for the area that embraces Albury, I would prefer that the Government take its time to get the right answers rather than hasten and have Albury-Wodonga suffer in the long term. Destructive debate of this kind initiated by the Opposition will not help the situation. 
Let us look quickly at the history of the establishment of this growth centre. The Minister has referred this afternoon to the fact that no less than $60m, approximately three-quarters of all the funds allocated for Albury-Wodonga, has been invested in land at the direction of the former Minister, the now  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. Some of this land will never be used. Other land will not be used in the lifetime of the youngest member of this House of Representatives. He opposed freehold land for industrial development. When the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition was the Minister in charge of this project he was responsible for placing the dead hand of socialism on it. He has a hate for freehold land.  His  decision and the decision of the then Government not to permit freehold land to be made available to industrialists did more to drive industrialists out of the Albury-Wodonga area than any other single decision of happening. That situation has been  corrected  under the present Government. 
We want to see more private enterprise activity in Albury-Wodonga. There is no need for everything to be done by the Government. It is not desirable that everything be done by the Government. This Government, through the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development in his position as  Chairman  of the Ministerial Council on the Development of Albury-Wodonga, will encourage private industry to develop and private enterprise generally to be active in the Albury-Wodonga area. In this way confidence will be built up. I have no doubt that the negotiations which are taking place now between the Commonwealth and the States will resolve in the interests of Albury-Wodonga. I believe that it is in the long term interests of Albury-Wodonga to have the 3 governments- that is, the Commonwealth, Victorian and New South Wales governmentsfirmly committed to funding the on-going programs. Anyone who stands up in this place or elsewhere and attacks the Commonwealth Government for its efforts in trying to bring the 3 governments together as funding agents for the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation is not acting in the best interests of the AlburyWodonga growth centre. 
-The House is indebted to the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  for raising this issue today. I take issue with the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  when he said that this item should not be raised at this time. I go further and I accuse him and the Opposition of abdicating their responsibility in this field. They have done so consistently both in office and out of office. A great deal of the industrial dispute that is taking place in Australia today, at great expense to the whole of Australia, can be laid firmly at the door of both the parliamentary wing and the non-parliamentary wing of the Labor movement because they remain silent on occasions when in the public interest they ought to take a firm stand against what is going on. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand said that we have industrial disputes irrespective of who happens to be in government. Regrettably that is true. But it is usually Labor administrations and sections of the Labor movement that fan the breeze. We recall very vividly when Labor was in office how one of its Ministers, the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor),  instructed the Snowy Mountains Authority, a Commonwealth instrumentality, to obey the dictate of the 35-hour week committee that was operating an industrial dispute. That was what Labor did when it was in office and today it apologises and takes little or no interest in the very important matter raised by the honourable member for Mackellar. The importance of this matter is not confined solely to the John Fairfax organisation and the effect that the dispute has on this company. It concerns the whole of Australia. The attitude of the Opposition, as I have already said, is also important. But as the honourable member for Mackellar said, what ought to be deplored by every member of the House, including the members of the Opposition who are now interjecting and not taking any notice of what is going on in the debate, is the intimidation and victimisation that is occurring at the present time. 
I am informed that the Budget Rent a Car System and Avis Rent-a-Car System Pty Ltd will have the finger pointed at them by the trade union movement if they supply vehicles to newsagents in Sydney to carry papers that are produced by the Fairfax organisation. Do honourable members opposite support that? 
The honourable member nods his head approvingly. The Opposition supports that kind of blackmail and victimisation. This is exactly the point I am making: We are concerned not only with the effect that this dispute is having on John Fairfax but also with the attitude of the Opposition, the alternative government that will not be called upon to govern in this country for many many years. 
A previous debate in this House highlighted the fact that newspapers are not profitable. Speakers from both sides of the House emphasised that point. Last year only $417,000 profit was made by the 5 newspapers which are run by the John Fairfax organisation. The profitability of three of those newspapers was reduced and the operating loss of the other two substantially increased. What the Labor movement both inside and outside of Parliament has not yet learned is that there is a nexus between profitability and job opportunities. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
The matter raised by the honourable member for Mackellar is of the utmost importance. It relates to the illegal strike which is occurring at the  Sydney Morning Herald  offices and the efforts of certain left wing unionists to prevent the legitimate publication of that newspaper. The efforts of the union leaders in this dispute are to be deplored. Before the suspension of the sitting for lunch I had referred to the nexus which exists between profits and jobs and I had pointed out that the Labor movement, both inside and outside this House, had not learnt the significance of this nexus. 
It is hard to believe that in this time of high unemployment the Labor movement is not raising its voice against industrial disputes of the type that are occurring at the  Sydney Morning Herald.  I pointed out that the 5 newspapers produced by John Fairfax Ltd last year earned only $4 1 7,000. Three of the newspapers had their profitability reduced and two had their operating losses increased. The point that I am making is that if the profitability of this company and other companies is reduced, job opportunities will decrease. What is going on at the John Fairfax company represents a direct attack on that company. What is happening within the administration of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  is worker control in its worst form. The House ought to remember that there is a basic difference between worker control and worker participation. Worker participation is when those who are engaged in an industry take part in consultation and assist in forming policies and making recommendations in relation to the policies of the company or corporation concerned. Worker control is when the shop stewards take over and determine the course of action within an organisation. Right at this moment thousands of articles of mail are being held up in the Redfern Mail Exchange that ought to be delivered, in accordance with Acts passed by this Parliament, to the  Sydney Morning Herald.  As of 9 o'clock yesterday morning the number of articles totalled 23 685. It is a scandalous situation. I am surprised that every member of the Opposition has not voiced his opposition to what is going on. 
I said also that what is happening to the Fairfax organisation today may well be happening to someone else tomorrow. The honourable member for Capricornia  (Mr Carige)  is already worried about a situation concerning Queensland Alumina Ltd. Contracts are up for negotiation between the company and the unions. What has happened? Stewards have taken over against the wishes of the executive of the trade union movement. There are 850 workers on strike at Queensland Alumina and the loss of wages amounts to something like $122,000 a week. The strike will break Gladstone if it continues. This is the type of thing that is allowed to go on unchecked and unchallenged by the Labor movement inside this House and by the left wing section of the Labor movement outside the House. 
The honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  labelled this discussion as union bashing. What rubbish! I suggest that the bulk of the men who are on strike at the John Fairfax company wish to be at work. They are being pressured. They are being intimidated. 
As the honourable member has interjected, they are being blackmailed into a situation where they have no alternative but to leave their jobs. This left wing union control is wrecking large organisations. It is not confined to private enterprise organisations. This worker control is infiltrating into the utilities of this country which are controlled by our several governments. Worker control is being aided and abetted by the members who sit on the Opposition benches of this House. Not once during the past 12 months has any member of the Opposition risen in his place to deplore, decry and criticise worker control by the trade union movement. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question, which I address to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, concerns the introduction of worker control into Telecom Australia and Australia Post by the New South Wales Branch of the Australian Postal and Telecommunications Union and action by that union to prevent the delivery of an estimated 30 000 articles of mail addressed to John Fairfax and Sons Ltd and its subsidiaries. I ask the Minister: Is it illegal under legislation enacted by this Parliament during the life of the former Labor Government to withhold the delivery of mail? Further, was an injunction recently granted by  Mr Justice  Taylor in the New South Wales Supreme Court to prevent the Union from hindering or obstructing mail addressed to John Fairfax and Sons Ltd or its newspapers? Does Australia Post propose to take action to have this illegally delayed mail delivered without further delay? 
-I wish to direct to the Minister for Primary Industry a question which concerns the Government's far-reaching and commendable decision to establish a national rural bank. Will the Minister inform the House of the progress made in considering the many complex matters associated with the bank's establishment? Can he give some indication of when it is likely to be incorporated? 
It is curious, to say the least, for the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Garrick)  and indeed other honourable members of the Opposition to rise and be critical of this Government for its handling of the economy. The former Administration is responsible for the economic mess which this Government has inherited and is now responsible for correcting. I want to remind the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  who is interjecting, and other honourable members opposite that when the Australian Labor Party came into office in 1972 the number of unemployed was approximately 137 000. When Labor left office the number was 329000. The number of young people unemployed when Labor came into office was 81 000. That number had risen to 152 000 by the time it left office. The inflation rate was 4.6 per cent when Labor came into office and it was 14.1 per cent when it left office. That is the track record of the previous Government and they are the problems that the present Government has inherited- the problems which it is slowly but surely overcoming. 
It is fitting that Her Majesty the Queen should have opened this second session of the thirtieth Parliament during her silver jubilee year. We are greatly honoured by the presence of Her Majesty m Australia, and and I note with pride the loyal, affectionate and warm welcome that has been extended to her in every centre she has visited. Her influence for good and for unity in Australia and in other parts of the Commonwealth of 
Nations is enormous. As well as being an outstanding monarch, our Queen is also a remarkable woman. Every effort should be made to ensure that this jubilee year is a year of achievement in many fields. I would like it to be the year when Australia clearly defines a national energy policy. Energy is the keystone of modern industrialised civilisation, not only for manufacturing and the provision of human comforts but for the very sustenance of life, as present day agriculture is one of our major energy consumers. The productivity of our farmlands is many times what it used to be only because we pour additional energy into the ground by the use of fertilisers, tractors and other farm equipment. 
In the post war period and the early 1950s energy supplies, particularly oil seemed inexhaustible and the consumer entered a period when energy sellers were cutting prices to sell their products. This price war led to the industrialised nations becoming dependent on oil and natural gas. In 1973 the members of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries generated the oil shock by cutting off supplies and then increasing prices. The Western world began frantically looking for ways of alleviating their dependence on oil and gas through the development of alternative sources of energy. Apart from the increase in the cost of goods imported from Japan, America and western Europe, Australia was reasonably insulated from the oil crisis. In 1973 Australia produced about 65 per cent of its oil. Since then, because of the reduced growth rate in energy demand compared to planned production, our self sufficiency has increased to 70 per cent. However, in the absence of new discoveries of oil, the proportion of Australian demand for petroleum products which can be met from local production of crude oil will fall steadily over the next 5 to 10 years. The Industries Assistance Commission report on crude oil pricing stated: 
It has been estimated that imported crude will increase its share of the local market from around 30 per cent currently to between 60 per cent and 80 per cent in 1 985. Any new discoveries of oil will take time to bring into production and would be unlikely to affect the imported share until the latter pan of the period. New discoveries will be priced at import parity. Thus, irrespective of Government decisions on the price of oil from discoveries before September 1 975 the price of crude oil in Australia will steadily approach import parity over the years ahead. 
It would appear that Australia could face its energy crisis in the next decade rather than in this one unless appropriate action is taken to prepare for likely massive increases in oil costs. Faced with the economic and political consequences of increasing oil imports, Australia, in my view, has but one realistic alternative to minimise inherent risks of enlarged imports of oil. Action must be taken to expand the indigenous energy supply, particularly the conventional sources of oil, natural gas and coal, to consider the use of nuclear energy, to realise greater energy savings through more effective conservation measures and to build stockpiles to buffer the effect of any deliberate supply reductions. Failure to do so, and instead deferring the acceptance of the consumer and taxpayer cost of these actions until the dangers are more apparent and the time available to make adjustment is shorter, creates the risk of considerable economic dislocation, slower growth and higher unemployment. 
Balanced energy policies have been in great demand throughout the world since 1973 and to a lesser extent also in Australia. One of the problems is that opinions as to what constitutes an energy policy are extremely vague. Unfortunately energy usage is an essential part of the economic nature of the community; hence the development and final implementation of an energy policy requires decision making at top levels of government. Basically there is a dichotomy between demand-consumption and traditional economic growth on the one hand and conservation of non-renewable energy sources and generation of alternative sources on the other. An energy policy is a compromise between these 2 forces, imposed of course by government. 
The United States, Canada and Britain have all in recent times considered the need for energy policies and the need to update existing energy policies. Against the background of world events and an increasing world demand for energy it must be asked whether Australia has a national energy policy. Perhaps the best statement on this question is that contained in the 1974 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Examiners report on  Science and Technology in Australia  in which the following comment was made: 
With regard to its energy resources Australia has a privileged position in the world. The country possesses important domestic resources in coal, petrol, gas and uranium, which will probably protect it over a long period from the direct repercussions of the world energy crises. 
This situation does not prevent Australia from having to define a coherent policy with respect to the most rational manner of using and exploiting its resources. At the present time, however, there is no clearly defined energy policy at the national level. 
Each State within the Commonwealth meets its own needs in energy, on the basis of its own fuel resources. Electricity production is organised by public bodies established by the governments of the States and these define a policy within the limits of their territory. It is hence no exaggeration to say there exists 6 energy policies in Australia largely independent of each other. 
I think this report is a fair assessment of what the position was, and that which was being maintained, when this Government came into office at the end of 1975. However, the Minister for Minerals and Energy in the former Labor Government, the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor),  did not agree with the reference and late in 1974 he issued a statement which he called  Australia's National Long Term Fuel and Energy Policy.  The statement was, of course, packed with socialist objectives. Part of it, the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Act, was subsequently found by the High Court to be invalid, and no provision was made for consultation with the States. The honourable member for Cunningham did not believe in having meetings with the States. So the Australian Minerals Council did not meet even once during the 3 years Labor was in office between 1972 and 1975. The then Minister refused to call it together. Although the honourable member for Cunningham protested at the claim made in the OECD Examiners report that Australia did not have an energy policy at the national level, it is interesting to note that the Royal Commission on Petroleum was critical of the lack of a national energy policy in its report which was tabled in this House last year. 
Since the present Government came into office at the end of 1 975 a number of important decisions have been taken. The  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for National Resources and Overseas Trade  (Mr Anthony)  is to be complimented upon his initiatives and actions in the energy field which are designed to overcome the deficiencies largely created by the dead hand of socialism between 1973 and 1975. In just over one year the new Government has: Given permission for the development of Nebo, Hail Creek and Norwich Park coal deposits; approved in principle the export of limited quantities of natural gas so as to facilitate the development of the North West Shelf gas fields; introduced a deduction for taxation purposes of an additional 40 per cent of capital invested after 1 January 1976 against income; established the Australian Minerals and Energy Council made up of State and Federal mines and energy Ministers and the Minister for the Northern Territory to replace the former Australian Minerals Council; and, what is more important, this body has met and will continue to meet regularly. Significantly the Government has also established the National Energy Advisory Committee to advise the Government on energy matters and assist in the formulation and development of a national energy policy for Australia. 
This is an impressive list of achievements, particularly when compared with the dismal record of the former Labor Government. It was reluctant to consult with State governments and industry organisations or indeed with anybody. It reversed the policy of encouraging investment in exploration. It withdrew the search subsidy and taxation allowances for investors and for development expenditure. This action, together with the attitude of the former Government, resulted in the rapid decline in exploration and near collapse of the industry and the transfer of Australian and overseas search companies to foreign countries. No new discoveries were made while Labor was in office. 
Although this Government has moved quickly to restore confidence in the energy industry and to stimulate new exploration and development programs, there is still an urgent need to formulate a coherent national energy policy. Some may argue that Australia should establish an energy authority to undertake this task. Personally I do not believe that governments need to establish new bureaucratic monsters every time a problem has to be solved. In the immediate future the Minister for National Resources, with the advice of the newly created National Energy Advisory Committee and his own administration, and with the co-operation of the State governments through the Australian Minerals and Energy Council, is well equipped to advise the Government regarding the contents of a national energy policy. I hope that this work will proceed quickly and without delay. 
It will first be necessary to establish just what natural energy resources Australia has in terms of quantity, quality, accessibility and transportability to markets. Our likely domestic rate of consumption for these resources and the likely life of these resources must also be determined. We need to know also the effect a change of fuel source will have on consumers. Having assembled the basic information the Minister and his advisers must decide, among other things, how best to meet the energy demand from both indigenous and imported energy resources. For example, as the percentage of oil imported into the country increases, its effect on the country's balance of payments will also increase. By 1985 it is estimated that if no additional discoveries of indigenous crude oil are made, the volume of petroleum that will have to be imported will be 200 million barrels at a cost of more than $2,000m, representing about 70 per cent of our petroleum requirements compared with the current 30 per cent. This eventuality will place enormous pressures on Australia's overseas reserves and balance of payments. We must, of course, maximise the use of indigenous fuels. However, where an excess of any energy resource exists, such as coal, uranium and natural gas, these could be exported to balance the costs of our imports. 
Research activities are also areas which call for close attention. Transport is one area where serious consideration of alternatives has not occurred. Over 95 per cent of Australia's transport is fuelled by petrol and diesel. Our options include imported crude, more use of electricity in the radway system, oil from coal and the conversion of vehicles for the use of liquid petroleum gas or electric vehicles. It is clear that research should be intensified into the use of solar energy for medium grade heat, for industrial use and oil from coal for transport use. At the same time, I believe we should continue to monitor the nuclear industry as nuclear power will ultimately be needed in Australia. In short, Australia must develop as a matter of urgency a coherent national energy policy designed to achieve a balanced development of our energy resources rather than allow economic pressures to lead development. Energy consumers should be given options of supply based on a combination of factors, such as the life of the resource, security of supply, pollution of the local environment as well as simple delivered costs. In this manner the actual fuel chosen may not be the cheapest for the consumer but the choice will be more in the country's interests. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for National Resources, relates to the wide publicity given to the debate sponsored by the Leader of the Opposition in the House yesterday on uranium and refers in particular to safeguards. I ask the Minister whether he will state whether the Government's policy on safeguards varies from the public statement early last year? If so, what changes have been made? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I ask whether his attention has been drawn to an announcement by a major motor company increasing the prices for certain of its motor vehicles. Is this action in conformity with the general response of the business community to the call by State and Federal governments for a price and wage freeze? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, concerns the AlburyWodonga growth centre. I ask the Minister  whether his attention has been invited to statements by New South Wales and Victorian Ministers calling for an urgent meeting of the AlburyWodonga Ministerial Council to discuss funding arrangements for the complex? Will a meeting of the Ministerial Council be held in the near future? Has the Commonwealth Government made a firm financial commitment to the project? 
-I am delighted to tell the honourable member for Macarthur and the House that this matter has received the active consideration of the Government. Indeed, it is not overstating the position to indicate that the Government has been extremely concerned about the sweetheart agreements entered into by some companies at a cost to the community in two ways: Firstly, the direct cost suffered by consumers; and, secondly, the effect of sweetheart agreements on inflation, which affects everybody in the community. This Government inherited from its predecessor a very high rate of inflation- something like 16 per cent- and tremendous progress has been made in getting the inflation rate down. The Prime Minister this afternoon referred to the inflation rate being in the vicinity of 10 per cent. The point I want to make very clear is that the Government will not stand by and see its wages policy affected in this way without taking some positive action. 
I am able  to tell the  honourable member for Macarthur and the House that I propose to write to the  Chairman  of the Prices Justification Tribunal requesting that in its consideration of company prices the Tribunal disregard cost increases due to wage increases or wage related benefits which are granted outside the regular conciliation and arbitration machinery and which are inconsistent with the accepted standards of that machinery. I also take the opportunity to make it clear that those companies which grant increases outside the guidelines to which I have referred will be referred to the Prices Justification Tribunal for inquiry into their price structure. The Government is insistent in this matter. It regards the sweetheart agreements to which I have referred as being a direct attack on its wages policy and on its continuing efforts to bring this country's inflation rate down to an acceptable level. 
For the information of honourable members I present the following reports of the Industries Assistance Commission: 
I move: 
Customs TariffProposals Nos 16 to 23 (1977) 
The Customs tariff proposals I have just tabled relate to proposed alterations to the Customs Tariff Act 1966. These proposals formally place before Parliament, as required by law, tariff changes introduced by  Gazette  notices during the last recess. These changes arise from the Government 's decisions on recommendations by the Industries Assistance Commission in its reports on: 
I move: 
Excise TariffProposals (No. 1) 1977. 
The excise tariff proposals I have just tabled relate to a proposed alteration to the Excise 
Tariff 1921. These proposals formally place before Parliament, as required by law, a tariff change introduced by a  Gazette  notice on 30 June 1977 and which, with effect from 1 July 1977, increased from 4.3c to 10c per tonne, the excise duty on coal, not being the property of a State or brown coal produced by open cut methods. The excise duty is applied to the Coal Mining Industry Long Service Leave Trust Fund set up under the States Grants (Coal Mining Industry Long Service Leave) Act 1 949 administered by my colleague, the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  A summary setting out reasons for the increase has been circulated to honourable members. I commend the proposals. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
1 ask for leave of the House to move a motion to discharge certain tariff proposals which were moved earlier in the year and which constitute part of Order of the Day No. 15. These proposals were incorporated in the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill 1977 which has now been assented to. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the International Fund for Agricultural Development Bill 1977 as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
I move: 
I move: 
Excise TariffProposals No. 2 (1977) and Customs Tariff Proposals No. 24 (1977). 
Excise TariffProposals No. 2 (1977) and Customs Tariff Proposals No. 24 (1977) which I have just tabled introduce the Excise Tariff and Customs Tariff changes relating to crude oil, condensate when mixed with crude oil, and certain refined petroleum products, foreshadowed by my colleague the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in his Budget Speech earlier this evening. The proposals which will operate on and after 8 o'clock this evening increase the excise duties on crude oil, and condensate when mixed with crude oil by 50 per cent, the excise and customs duties on the refined petroleum products by one quarter of a cent per litre, and exempt from excise duty condensate when marketed separately from crude oil. I commend the proposals. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Keating)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill I have just introduced is to make to the Diesel Fuel Tax Act (No. 1 ) 1957 an amendment which is consequential to alterations in customs and excise duties on refined petroleum products contained in tariff proposals introduced earlier tonight. The Bill increases by a quarter of a cent per litre the tax payable on diesel fuel which is sold or otherwise disposed of to a person who is not the holder of a certificate certifying requirement of diesel fuel for purposes other than for road use. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Keating)  adjourned. 
-I move- 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to make to the Diesel Fuel Tax Act (No. 2) 1957 an amendment which is consequential to alterations in customs and excise duties on refined petroleum products contained in tariff proposals introduced earlier tonight. The Bill increases by a quarter of a cent per litre the tax payable on diesel fuel purchased by a certificate holder for an 'exempt' purpose but which is subsequently used in propelling a road vehicle on a public road. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion of  Mr Keating)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill I have just introduced is to increase by one-eighth of a cent per litre the present tax of 2c per litre on liquefied gas used for propelling road vehicles. The increase is complementary to the increases in duties on refined petroleum products foreshadowed by my colleague the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in his Budget Speech and contained in tariff Proposals introduced earlier this evening. The increased rate is to apply in respect of liquefied gas that is used for road vehicle propulsion on and from 17 August 1977. 1 commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Keating)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Authority's decision has been considered by Cabinet. 
The Government's decision was announced on 8 June 1977. 
(a) In March 1977 the local manufacturers' production capacity for floor and wall tiles was about 4.3m square metres per annum; 
Production statistics not available. However, sales of locally produced tiles in 1975-76 amounted to 3.5m square metres; 
Not available. 
No. 
The voluntary prices/wages pause formally ended on 24 May 1977. 
7m square metres of glazed tiles were imported in 1975-76. 
The range of tiles available on the domestic market was examined by the Authority in its report. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) to (6) I refer the honourable member to the answer to Question No. 1003. 
Overseas Travel by Departmental Staff  (Question No. 1018) 
For the information of honourable members, I present the interim reports of the Industries Assistance Commission on plywood and veneer (thick plywood); children's knitted tracksuits. playsuits, rompersuits and like garments- tariff quotas; and short term assistance for room air-conditioners. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the reports of the Temporary Assistance Authority on tyre cord fabrics; carpets and related correspondence; ceramic floor and wall tiles; and vices. 
I move: 
Customs Tariff Proposals No. 25 (  1  977 ). 
The Customs Tariff Proposals I have just tabled related to proposed alterations to the Customs Tariff Act 1966. The Proposals implement the Government's decision on recommendations made by the Industries Assistance Commission in its report on measuring, checking, precision instruments and apparatus, etc.; clocks and watches, etc.; medical apparatus, etc.; cine cameras, projectors, etc. The effect of the decision means that minimum rates of duty will apply to a wide range of imports, many of which previously attracted protective rates of duty. In some instances, the implementation of minimum rates has been deferred for 12 months to enable local industry to adjust. The new duties will operate from tomorrow. I have had prepared a comprehensive summary of the changes which is now being circulated to honourable members. I commend the proposals to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Innes)  adjourned. 
by leave- The recent Industries Assistance Commission draft report on textiles, clothing and footwear has heightened uncertainty in these industries to a degree which the Government considers unacceptable. Numerous requests have been made to the Government seeking clarification of the Government's attitude to these industries and an indication of the rules of the game so manufacturers can plan accordingly. Greater certainty about Government policies towards industry and economic prospects are essential if investment and employment are to be sustained. These industries have been subject to many difficulties and pressures over recent years. Imports have increased steadily notwithstanding the application of short term measures of assistance.. Employment has declined from about 167,000 in 1971 to fewer than 120,000 now. 
The Government's basic position is that it regards efficient textile, clothing and footwear sectors as important and continuing parts of Australia's manufacturing industry. The significance of these sectors in terms of employment and related social considerations is fully recognised. We are determined, as are other developed countries, to preserve an efficient industry, not necessarily with the present composition, but with an essentially permanent character. The Government will apply what it termed in the White Paper on Manufacturing Industry 'sectoral policies' to meet the special problems of the textiles, clothing and footwear industries. Support will be provided for a defined period during which the industries concerned should make a real effort to improve their structure and efficiency and hence improve their longterm outlook. Specifically, the Government will now: 
Ask the IAC to provide advice on the construction and implementation of a policy, in both its short term and long term aspects, which takes into account the Government's basic position to which I have just referred. In addition, the IAC will be asked to pay specific attention in its final report to the employment implications of its specific recommendations, including: 
Whether recommendations for phased reduction of assistance particularly in the present circumstances are facilitating long term adjustment of industry and, if not, what alternative options are available; and 
the employment consequences of the levels of assistance regarded by the IAC as the highest justified for economic and efficient production in the long term. 
Ask the IAC to submit a separate and independent report within 60 days as to the detailed arrangements required to maintain to the fullest extent practicable the present level of activity and employment in the production of the goods covered by the existing references for a period of three years from mid 1977. 
Establish a special study, separate from the IAC textiles, clothing and footwear inquiry, of the adjustment problems, especially adjustment into alternative employment, to be faced in the most highly assisted Australian industries, including the textiles, clothing and footwear sectors with the object of suggesting the broad elements of a long term policy of continuation and stability. 
While noting that there is a reasonably high degree of technological efficiency in the three industries, arrange for the Minister for Productivity to enter into immediate discussions with representatives of the textiles, clothing and footwear sectors, and with the appropriate unions, to determine the potential scope and commitment to a program of productivity improvement. 
I turn now to the level and allocation of quotas for textiles, clothing and footwear in the next quota period. In April this year, the Government announced it would extend the validity period of quota allocations for six months from January 1978 for footwear and brassieres and from March 1978 for textiles and other clothing. We sought urgent advice from the IAC on the supplementary levels of quota for the additional six months period. The IAC has advised that lower levels of quota for certain items appear necessary to sustain activity and employment in the local industry sectors concerned. The Government has accepted the IAC's recommendations. 
The Government has noted that the existing method of quota allocation, which is in general on an historical importing base in many cases dating back to 1973-74, has introduced rigidities into the quota allocation system. Accordingly the Government has decided to reserve 1 5 per cent of total quotas for cases involving anomalies. It has also decided that all quotas be made transferable and that for all quotas allocated on an historical basis, a moving base period will be used. Details of the supplementary quotas and the changed procedural arrangements will be announced in separate statements as soon as possible. 
The Government has considered the position of local firms which invested in offshore production facilities prior to the introduction of quotas with the objective of placing a substantial part of the output from these facilities on the Australian market. Provision will be made within the quota reserve for such firms. Honourable members will be aware that a number of such cases have occurred recently with respect to Australian operations in a number of developing countries. The Government's decision will assist the viability of these operations. Textiles, clothing and footwear form an important part of these countries' exports to Australia. 
Trade in these products was an important element in the talks which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  had in Kuala Lumpur earlier this month with the five leaders of the countries which form the Association of South East Asian Nations. During those talks the ASEAN leaders expressed their strong wish to improve their trade with Australia. There has in fact been considerable growth over the past five years in 
ASEAN exports to Australia, even for sensitive items such as textiles, clothing and footwear. The balance of trade with Australia which has been of concern to ASEAN countries has moved relatively in ASEAN 's favour during that period. 
The Prime Minister was able to point out the considerable scope, even in present economic conditions, for increasing ASEAN 's share of the Australian import market and announced measures which we hope will facilitate increased two-way trade between ASEAN and Australia. The ASEAN Heads of Government and the Prime Minister agreed that they should improve consultative mechanisms to promote further cooperation on mutual trade problems. Our trading partners appreciate the difficult economic problems which we face at the moment and accept that our ability to expand our imports will depend in an important way on economic recovery in Australia and the access which our own exports have in other markets. The Government's policy is directed towards achieving an appropriate balance between providing opportunities for our trading partners and sustaining activity and employment in the Australian textiles, clothing and footwear industries. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on short term assistance to certain fabrics of acetate yarn and the IAC interim report on textiles, clothing and footwear- review of quotas. 
I present the following papers: 
Textiles, clothing and footwear industries-Government policy-Ministerial statement, 1 7 August 1 977. 
Industries Assistance Commission ReportsShort term assistance to certain fabrics of acetate yarn, dated 29 April 1977. 
Textiles, clothing and footwear: Review of quotas- Interim report, dated 3 1 May 1977. 
Motion (by  Mr Howard)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the statement. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Customs resources throughout Australia are deployed to achieve the greatest possible control over the introduction into this country or dangerous drugs, quarantinable goods and other prohibited imports. Prevention operations both in the pons of Sydney and Kurnell are continually evaluated on the basis of priorities and information known. The development of research, information and intelligence resources provides the Department with the ability to assess risks and conduct selective checks. Risk areas at the port of Kurnell receive no less attention than do those at the port of Sydney and staff levels at that port are considered appropriate for the workload and potential risk that exist in the area. 
Weather and other operations permitting. Customs launches are used to transport a search group and equipment to the Kurnell area. On other occasions use can be made of oil company launches or chartered water transport. 
All shipping at Kurnell refinery is cleared by the SubCollector of Customs and his staff. Decisions on searching are made under the direction of the Inspector, Prevention, Sydney who is responsible for the preventive function in New South Wales. 
-Regrettably I am aware of the report of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics which indicates that the income of farmers is likely to drop by between 12 per cent and 14 per cent. This is a matter of great concern to the Government. Indeed, it is a matter of great concern to everybody on this side of the House and also to others who have a feeling for people. It is because of the feeling and concern that this Government has for individuals who live in Australia and seek to work in Australia that the Government has taken firm action and indicated that it will continue to take firm action to inject confidence into all sections of the community. The Budget Speech delivered by the Treasurer on Tuesday indicates clearly that our financial policy is balanced and directed in this way. 
It is all very well for my good friend to draw attention to the plight of the farmers- I well know the plight of the farmers because I represent a large number of farmers in a rural electorate- but he should balance this argument by also drawing attention to the problems facing people who are employed in other industries and people who have the responsibility of conducting those other industries in this country. All people have a right to employment if they wish to work. It is this Government's intention to pursue policies that will assist people employed m all industries whether they be primary or secondary industries. I do not subscribe to a policy designed to play one section of the community against another. I shall not support action by anybody inside this House or outside it which is designed in this way. This Government will continue to pursue policies to overcome the difficulties that it inherited. In 1972 when the Liberal and Country Parties left office 136 769 Australians were out of work- 2.4 per cent of the population. 
For the information of honourable members I present the advice from the Industries Assistance Commission on continuation of short-term assistance for certain chest freezers up to 350 litres. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Diesel Fuel Tax (No. 2) Amendment Bill and the Liquefied Gas (Road Vehicle Use) Tax Amendment Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions Will of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the three Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Five persons have been prosecuted since 1973 for offences under Sub-division D of Division 4 of Part X of the Companies Ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory. 
Three persons were convicted for a total of eight offences and fined a total of $700 plus costs. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No precise statistics are available on the origin of coffee used in the Australian coffee industry. However, figures provided by the Australian Bureau of Statistics show that in 1973-76 3.1 per cent of the total quantity of coffee imported into Australia came from Brazil and 37.2 per cent came from Papua New Guinea. In 1974-75 the corresponding figures were 5.7 per cent and 38.5 per cent. These statistics include coffee imported for sale to wholesalers and retailers in addition to that for use in manufacturing industry. 
and (3) Prices charged to Australian importers by overseas exporters are shown on Customs invoices but this information is treated in commercial confidence by the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs and is not made publicly available. 
Companies that are required to notify the Prices Justification Tribunal of proposed increases in coffee prices are, I am advised, direct importers. Although the Tribunal, when examining price notifications from these companies, has access to the prices at which they import coffee, this information is likewise regarded as confidential. 
The Austraiian Bureau of Statistics has advised that it collects a small number of price series relating to imported coffee for incorporation in the Price Index of Materials Used in Manufacturing Industry. The prices relate to selected specifications for use in the aggregate index and are not considered by the Bureau to be sufficiently representative to be used as an official measure of price levels or price changes for imported coffee. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Australian Statistician does not compile statistics of the kind sought. However, in his 1976 Budget Speech the Treasurer indicated that the total amount collected in the year 1975-76 was $1 1 1,639,834 and that the estimate for 1 976-77 was $ 1 1 2m. 
3 ) I do not have access to this information. 
At this stage I am unable to elaborate on the Treasurer's statement in his 1976 Budget Speech when he said that the reduction being effected then was regarded by the Government as a first step towards completely phasing out this particular tax within three years. 
1 would expect that coal exporters contractual commitments to pre-determined shipping schedules would provide little scope, if any, to evade this duty. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Statistician has provided the statistics shown in the attached table, or total imports of complete ball bearings and parts for ball bearings in each of the years 1 97 1 to 1976 and during the period 1 January to 31 March 1977. Information on individual companies' imports is not available. 
Precision ground steel ball bearings and parts thereof (excluding steel balls) are dutiable at 28 per cent ad valorem General Tariff and Developing Countries, 2 1 per cent ad valorem Preferential Tariff and Free from New Zealand and Papua/New Guinea. 
The other goods included in the attached table are dutiable at 10 per cent ad valorem General Tariff and Free from all other sources. The bearings which are normally accorded duty free admission under Customs By-laws are shown in the attached Consolidated By-law References. 
Information on the estimated import percentage to local production or total supplies of ball bearings is not available because the Australian Bureau of Statistics does not compile separate statistics on local production of ball bearings 
The answer to the honourable member's queston is as follows: 
The IAC's report on Passenger Motor VehiclesExtension of Import Restrictions of 16 November 1976 which was the subject of the report in the  Australian Financial Review  has now been released. The Government does not intend to take any further action upon it. 
The Australian Statistician has provided the following statistics of imports of assembled and unassembled motor vehicles and parts therefor for each month of 1976. In the case of unassembled vehicles and parts and accessories, the statistics are shown only for value of imports because information on quantities imported is not recorded. 
The Australian Statistician has no information on the gross amounts spent in Australia on imported motor vehicles or imported parts for motor vehicles. The value provided in answer to (2 ) above represent the value of imports for customs purposes (i.e. value for the purpose of assessing customs duties) which is the value at the port of export in the country of origin. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
 Inquiries conducted by the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs indicate that apart from alcohol content, information of the kind suggested would be difficult to provide on labels and would be of questionable value to consumers. I understand that the question of alcohol content labelling is being considered in respect of all alcoholic beverages by the Food Standards Committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council. 

 Mr John Francis Licardy (Question No.  62S) 
-The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
No. 
No. 
Yes. 
The Trade Practices Act confers responsibility on the Trade Practices Commission to determine matters of public benefit. 
No; I am informed that a decision can be expected towards the end of the year. 
-I thank the honourable member for Franklin for the welcome back. I would also like to take the opportunity of complimenting the honourable member for Franklin on his very real interest in this matter. It would be an understatement to say that the honourable member is vigilant at all time in matters affecting the oil industry. He never ceases to bring to the attention of the responsible Ministers matters of concern in this area. I am aware of the concern that has been expressed in various quarters about the matters raised by the honourable member for Franklin. I assure him that the suggestion that a consultative committee be established is being given active consideration by me. My predecessor in this portfolio, now the Minister for Special Trade Negotiations, gave an undertaking on behalf of the Government that a consultative committee, consisting of represenatives of the various interests in the oil industry and consumer groups, the Government and employer organisations, would be established. Since taking over this portfolio I have been giving consideration to the detail and I hope that in the very near future it will be possible for me to make contact with those special interest groups with a view to putting some firm proposals before them for consideration and with a view to an early establishment of the consultative committee. 
On behalf of the Minister for Special Trade Negotiations  (Mr Howard),  who in this House represents the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  I would like to thank honourable members who took part in this debate, particularly the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  who, as Attorney-General, played a major role in the events necessary to enable this piece of historic legislation to be produced. Notwithstanding that some of the matters discussed were outside the immediate scope of the Bill, the debate has been most interesting and useful. I will bring to the attention of the Attorney-General the matters raised by honourable members hi this debate that they feel ought to be considered by him. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I move: 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on assistance to the performing arts. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Temporary Assistance Authority on manually operated chain hoists, chain pulley tackle and chain winches. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Temporary Assistance Authority on brandy, whisky, gin and vodka. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There were 39 Australian Standard Industry Classification groups in the manufacturing sector receiving protection in 1974-75. The 11 groups in the quartile of highest nominal rates are as follows: 2 1 9 Total beverages and malt 22 1 Tobacco products 241 Total knitting mills 242 Total clothing 243 Total footwear 272 Total other chemical and related products 3 1 1 Total fabricated structural metal products 312 Total sheet metal products 3 1 3 Total other fabricated metal products 32 1 Total motor vehicles and parts 322 Total other transport equipment. 
The 9 groups in the quartile of highest effective rates are as follows: 2 1 8 Total other food products ( including total sugar) 2 1 9 Total beverages and malt 23 1 -232 Total textiles, yarns and woven fabrics 241 Total knitting mills 242 Total clothing 243 Total footwear 312 Total sheet metal products 32 1 Total motor vehicles and parts 322 Total other transport equipment. 
The average annual growth rate of employment in these industries between 1968-69 and 1975-76 is given below. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It has not been the practice to publicly disclose the actual number or details of persons employed in the Federal Bureau of Narcotics. 
The Bureau has staff stationed in each of the capital cities of Australia whose task is to co-ordinate investigations into the import, export and trafficking in illegally imported drugs. It can and does draw upon other large numbers of investigative and law enforcement staff employed elsewhere in the 
Department of Business and Consumer Affairs at such places as airports, wharves, etc., to assist in investigations. 
The regional forces are under the control of a Northern Regional Commander, responsible for the overall coordination of operations in New South Wales, Queensland and the Northern Territory and a Southern Regional Commander, responsible for co-ordinating operations in Victoria, Tasmania, South Australia and Western Australia. 
One narcotics liaison officer is stationed overseas and it is shortly proposed to station another officer overseas. In addition staff in other overseas posts manned by the Department assist in gathering drug intelligence for use by the Narcotics Bureau. 
In common with other law enforcement agencies monies are paid by the Narcotics Bureau for information relating to the suppression of the illegal drug trade and it has not been the practice to provide details of these payments. 
Apartheid in South Africa  (Question No. 1304) 
It is not a fact that there was no consultation with the industries concerned in this matter. An inquiry was conducted and it was open to all interested parties to make representations. There was no consultation between me as Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs and the particular industries but there was an opportunity for all interested parties to make these representations. The representations made were very carefully considered by the Government before a decision was taken. The Government had to weigh up carefully as did the Commission the effects of its decision. The decision was very carefully considered. I also inform the House that since the decision was taken by the Government further representations have been received by, I think, the Minister for Primary Industry, the Minister for Industry and Commerce and myself. Those representations are being given careful consideration at present. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) My attention has been drawn to tests carried out by the Australian Consumers' Association on the germicidal product Fiesta as reported in the Association's journal  Choice  in November 1975. As to what was proved by the ACA tests my answer to parts 4 and 5 below is of relevance. 
Yes. 
The matter was carefully examined by the Commission which sought advice from the manufacturer and from the Australian Government Analyst. In correspondence with the manufacturer the Commission pointed out that certain claims made in relation to the product may be misleading and suggested that the company change the wording of its advertising. After a further correspondence the change to 'kills most germs in the wash' (among others) was made and agreed between the manufacturer and the Trade Practices Commission. 
and (5) The manufacturer has submitted to the Trade Practices Commission the results of regular tests of the product conducted by an independent laboratory registered with the National Association of Testing Authorities. These results support the claim that the product kills the bacteria, Pseudomonas Aeruginosa. The discrepancy between these results and the result obtained by Australian Consumers ' Association is probably due to the use of different test methods. The Commission has again sought the advice of the Australian Government Analyst because of the conflict of the conclusions reached by the independent laboratory and the Australian Consumers' Association. 
Commonwealth Funding of Programs in Federal Electorates  (Question No. 1088) 
-The short answer to the last part of the question raised by the honourable member for Wentworth is no. I have seen the reports referred to by the honourable member. They concern a question asked of the Premier in the Legislative Assembly of New South Wales by  Mr Cleary,  the member for Coogee.  Mr Cleary  asked the Premier whether he would support an approach to the Prime Minister to see whether the services of the armed forces could be used to assist in apprehending people who illegally import drugs into Australia. I am amazed that the Premier agreed to support this suggestion without first acquainting himself with the present position. The defence forces are already utilised extensively by my Department in its drug enforcement operations. The assistance provided, particularly to the Narcotics Bureau, is both of a routine surveillance nature and in direct support of specific seizures and apprehensions. Some time ago a special committee comprising senior 
Defence and Customs personnel was established to ensure further that the co-operation was at a maximum level. The committee meets as necessary and has established special operational procedures and intelligence reporting criteria. 
I think this is an opportune moment to remind the House that Australian Customs and particularly the Narcotics Bureau do not have to rely solely on their own facilities. The Narcotics Bureau is an expert organisation but it also has the full co-operation of all other appropriate government agencies, for example the Commonwealth Police and the Territory police. I am pleased to report that there is a high degree of excellent cooperation between the Narcotics Bureau and the State police. This is a very difficult area. I know that suggestions have been made that more people and more luggage ought to be searched at the international terminals. I am sure that most honourable members, if not all, will realise that this is impractical. It is a very difficult area in which to operate. The administration has to rely upon intelligence information to a large degree. Peope are importing heroin concealed within their bodies and within motor vehicles. The Bureau has to rely largely upon intelligence to apprehend these people. I emphasise to this House that the rate of apprehension and seizure by the Australian authorities compares more than favourably with that in comparable countries throughout the world. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to extend the operation of the nitrogenous fertilizers subsidy scheme for a further year until 3 1 December 1978 at the present rate of $60 per tonne of nitrogen content. Honourable members will recall that the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  in outlining in the Budget Speech a wide range of rural industry support initiatives of the Government, mentioned the provision of an amount of $12m for continuation of the subsidy for a further year. 
Although the Government in 1976 indicated agreement in principle with a recommendation of the Industries Assistance Commission that the subsidy be phased out, it has decided that, in view of the difficulties at present being experienced by the rural sector, no reduction in the rate of subsidy should be made at this time. Clause 6 of the Bill continues the Government's policy of expanding, wherever possible, the jurisdiction of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal in relation to administrative decision which affect rights or entitlements of persons under Commonwealth legislation. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from  12.59  to  2.15  p.m. 
For the information of honourable members I table a report of the Industries Assistance Commission, dated 12 September 1977, on passenger motor vehicles. I apologise for the non-availability of sufficient copies of the report to distribute to all honourable members. However, I am tabling the report at this time because of its importance to the industry involved. Copies of the report are being printed as a matter of urgency and as soon as sufficient copies become available they will be made available to honourable members and to the public. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 

 - Mr Acting Speaker, earlier this evening I undertook to table in this House a copy of a Press statement issued this evening by the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  and myself detailing the Government's decisions in relation to the Industries Assistance Commission report on passenger motor vehicles. I seek leave to have the statement incorporated in  Hansard, 

 The statement read as follows- 

For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on selfpropelled harvesters (by-law). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This Government regards investor confidence in the Australian capital markets as very important for continued economic growth. As the honourable member should be aware, our concern for adequate protection of investors is a major factor behind our efforts in seeking agreement with the States on a co-operative scheme for uniform law and administration in the fields of company law and the regulation of the securities industry. 
The other major factor is, of course, the significant benefit to the business community which will result from a truly uniform system of corporate law and administration. 
For further details of the scheme, I commend to the honourable member the statement made by my predecessor in this House on 17 March 1977. 
The Commonwealth Government is continuing its discussions with the States on details of the scheme, including the content of the companies and securities legislation. It would be inappropriate to disclose particulars of those discussions at this stage. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Ball and roller bearings were referred to the Industries Assistance Commission on 6 November 1 972, as part of the miscellaneous industrial machinery inquiry. 
Progress on the reference was determined by the wide range of machinery under inquiry and also with regard to the Commission's overall work program. I understand that investigations of alleged dumping and the obtaining of overseas cost information were delaying factors in the Commission's inquiry. Since the reference was sent there have been reports on short term assistance for the ball and roller bearing industry by the Temporary Assistance Authority in February 1975 and the Commission in December 1976. The Commission will be reporting separately on the matter of long term assistance for the ball and roller bearing industry. 
The short term inquiries into the industry have provided the Commission with more information for the long term report. The Commission released its draft report on ball and roller bearings on 22 September 1977 and the industry will have a further opportunity to present any later information it has available and considers relevant at the Commission's supplementary hearing to be held on 25 October 1977. 
See (2) and (3) above. In view of these developments no further action is considered necessary to hasten the report. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on polyethylene coated paper and paperboard for the manufacture of containers (by-law). 
Pursuant to section 45 of the Industries Assistance Commission Act 1973 I present the annual report of the Industries Assistance Commission for 1976-77, together with a statement outlining the action taken during the year 1976-77 on reports made to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Temporary Assistance Authority on rubber tyres and tyre cases. 
I move: 
Customs Tariff Proposals Nos 29, 30 and 31 ( 1977). 
The Customs Tariff Proposals I have just tabled relate to proposed alterations to the Customs Tariff Act 1966. Proposals Nos 29 and 30 formally place before Parliament, as required by law, tariff changes introduced by  Gazette  notices during the last recess. On 23 September 1977 the Government, following its consideration of a report by the Temporary Assistance Authority on brandy, whisky, gin and vodka, gazetted temporary duties and tariff quotas to apply to brandy and whisky. Proposals No. 29 ratify the Government's decision to impose tariff quotas and temporary duties on imports of brandy. Imports of brandy within quota entitlements now attract duty at the rate of $12.50 per litre of alcohol. Imports outside quota arrangements attract an additional duty of $20 per litre of alcohol. Details of those arrangements have already been announced. 
The Government has re-examined the situation in respect of whisky in the light of developments subsequent to the report by the Temporary Assistance Authority. It has now decided not to proceed to implement the increased duties on whisky which were gazetted on 23 September. This will mean that the duty on imported whisky will remain at the level applying prior to the tariff change gazetted on 23 September. In not proceeding to continue the temporary duties on whisky the quota arrangements which were also notified will not now apply. The Industries Assistance Commission is currently inquiring into the protective needs of the brandy and whisky producing industries and will be submitting a report to the Government by 30 November 1977. 
Proposals No. 30 defer the phase down of duties on imported sleeping bags from 25 per cent to 15 per cent, which was due to take effect from 24 September 1977. The Industries Assistance Commission'sreport on 'Certain Spun Yarns and Wool Textiles and Other Goods' is presently under consideration by the Government and, as sleeping bags are covered by the report, it was considered inappropriate to proceed with the duty reduction in advance of any decision on theIAC report. Proposals No. 31 have the effect of making brandy and certain textiles of New Zealand origin subject to tariff quotas. This action is in line with the Government's decision to place goods of New Zealand origin on the same footing as imports from other sources. However goods subject to the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement are not affected. I have had prepared a comprehensive summary setting out the nature of the changes in duty rates covered by Proposals Nos 29 and 30. This summary is now being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Proposals to the House. 
I ask for leave of the House to move a motion to discharge certain Tariff Proposals which were moved earlier this year and which constitute part of Order of the Day No. 28. These proposals were incorporated in the Customs Tariff (Coal Export Duty) Amendment Bill 1977 and the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill 1977 which have now been assented to. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on stranded wire, cables, et cetera, of copper; insulated electric wire, cable, et cetera. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill gives effect to decisions concerning the role of the Industries Assistance Commission announced by my colleague, the Minister for Special Trade Negotiations  (Mr Howard),  on my behalf on 14 September. The Bill also amends the temporary assistance provisions of the IAC Act as foreshadowed earlier this year. One of the purposes of the Bill is to ensure that recommendations of the Commission are made in the light of Government policy and that the Commission's reports contain all relevant information to enable fully informed decisions to be made by the Government. 
I emphasise that the changes will not compromise the independence of the Commission, or its role in advising the Government on the nature and levels of assistance which should be afforded particular industries. The public inquiry and report procedures will continue as important features of the Commission's operation. The Bill provides that the Commission, in the performance of its functions, will have regard to the Government's desire to achieve sustained growth through balanced development of industries with a view to providing increased opportunities for employment and investment. The BUI also expresses the Government's objective that any measures to achieve changes in the structure of industry are taken only after due regard has been given to the capacity of the economy to sustain those changes and to absorb members of the work force displaced by those changes. 
The Minister will have the power to bring additional matters to the attention of the Commission and to direct the Commission as to the priority it should observe in having regard to its policy guidelines in the performance of its functions. Provision is also made for the Commission in reporting on matters relating to the giving, continuance or withdrawal of assistance to report on the level of assistance required to ensure that activity and employment in an industry is sustained. Where the IAC recommends a lower level of assistance than this, it will be required to state the reasons for doing so. The Commission will be required to report whether the structure of an industry can be improved and, if so, the measures by which this can be done and the consequences of such improvement. It will also report on the probable consequences of implementing its recommendations for the giving, continuance or withdrawal of assistance to an industry or group of industries. 
The Bill clarifies the role of the Temporary Assistance Authority-TAA- as the principal body dealing with temporary assistance matters. The Bill states that the principal purpose of a TAA inquiry is to enable the Authority to report on the level of assistance necessary to maintain an existing level of activity and employment in an industry. The TAA will, as in the case of the Commission, be able to recommend to the Government any form of assistance which it considers appropriate. 
The Government will have the same flexibility in dealing with recommendations of the TAA as applies in respect of recommendations by the Commission. This change will mean that upon receipt of a report from the TAA the Government may not only accept, reject or partially adopt the Authority's recommendations but also take any other action it thinks fit in the circumstances. Not all temporary assistance matters will necessarily go to the TAA. From time to time there will be circumstances where short term problems are of such a nature and of such basic importance that they are immediately critical to the long term future of the industry. The option of referring such cases to the Industries Assistance Commission rather than the TAA should this be warranted by the circumstances is, therefore, retained. Consistent with the Government's policy that inquiries by the advisory bodies should be held in public, the Bill requires the 
TAA to hold its inquiries in public. Inquiries by the TAA will also be bound by Part V of the IAC Act which governs the manner in which Commission inquiries are held. 
The Bill also extends to 45 days from the present 30 days the time limit for the TAA to report on matters referred to it. This will facilitate proper inquiry procedures by that body and provide witnesses with better opportunities to prepare and present submissions. The present requirement for an automatic reference of an industry to the Commission following a decision to provide temporary assistance based upon a TAA report is unnecessarily restrictive and, in many cases, unwarranted. The Bill provides that temporary assistance granted following a TAA report will not continue for a period of more than 12 months without review by either the TAA or the Commission. Continuation of temporary assistance beyond 2 years will be dependent upon a prior report from the Commission and any industry seeking and obtaining temporary assistance will automatically be referred to the Commission for consideration of its long term level of assistance where it has received temporary assistance for two years or for a cumulative period of two years within the previous four years. 
The Bill provides that temporary assistance by way of import restraints or temporary duties will, in certain cases, not continue beyond three months after the receipt of an IAC report. These cases are where an industry seeks continuation of temporary assistance beyond two years or where, having received such assistance for a period of two years in the previous four years, it obtains further temporary assistance. The provision maintains restraints on the continuation of tem- porary assistance similar to those in the present C Act. A consequential amendment is, however, required to the Customs Tariff Act and a Bill for this purpose is being introduced with this amending legislation. As the TAA is concerned with industries which face actual and potential difficulties arising from import competition, the Bill provides as a guideline for the TAA the essence of the emergency action provisions of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade in relation to the withdrawal or suspension of obligations. These provisions allow for the withdrawal, suspension or modification of concessions by a contracting party, where it is necessary to take urgent action to provide assistance to an industry where any product is being imported in such increased quantities and under such conditions as to cause or threaten serious injury to domestic producers of like or directly competitive goods. 
Although the short term problems of an industry warrant particular treatment, the Government is nontheless conscious of the link between short term and long term assistance issues. For this reason the Bill specifically provides for the general criteria contained in section 22 ( 1 ) of the IAC Act to continue to apply to inquiries conducted by the TAA. 
The Bill also provides for changes in the structure of the TAA itself. The TAA will comprise one full-time member and there is provision for the Minister to appoint associate members for specific inquiries, thus allowing for the appointment of persons having expertise in a particular area as the need arises. It has been a matter of concern to the Government that the present Act does not provide for references, or parts of references, to either the Commission or the TAA to be withdrawn. This can lead to a situation where, during the course of an inquiry, it becomes apparent that there is no need for the inquiry or part of the inquiry to continue and consequently industry and other interested parties can face unnecessary costs. Provision is now made in the Bill for references to the Commission or the TAA to be withdrawn or amended. When sending a reference to the Commission, the Government will in appropriate circumstances require the Commission to report within a specific period of time. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, the changes to the IAC Act contained in this Bill demonstrate the Government's concern that the Commission should be able to fully respond to the Government's policy with respect to industry and that efficient emergency procedures to safeguard industries should exist. The Government fully recognises .the interdependence of short and long term assistance. Temporary assistance will not, therefore, be provided in such a way that it effectively removes the need for industries to adapt to changing circumstances; rather it will be provided so as to allow industries to take appropriate action to adapt to such changes. These amendments will ensure that an appropriate balance is struck between long term and short term assistance. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill deals with amendments necessary to the Customs Tariff Act 1966 consequent upon the proposed changes to temporary assistance measures foreshadowed in my second reading speech on the Industries Assistance Commission Amendment Bill 1977. The amendments provide that temporary assistance by way of temporary duties will, in certain cases, not continue beyond three months after receipt of a report from the Industries Assistance Commission. As explained in my speech on the Industries Assistance Commission Amendment Bill 1977, these cases are where an industry seeks continuation of temporary assistance beyond two years or where, having received such assistance for a period of two years in the previous four years, it obtains further temporary assistance. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on potatoes and processed potato products. 
-I move: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Press reports have been drawn to my attention but I emphasize that they misrepresent the true position. The Bureau of Customs is not changing the method of valuing goods. From time to time, an import transaction comes to notice which requires a decision to be made on how the valuation legislation would apply to such a transaction. In some cases the Department's ruling differs from the valuation computed by the importer of the goods. This does not imply that any change has been made to the method of valuation. 
There is no new departmental definition of the word buyer'. 
) No change is contemplated. 
No changes are contemplated. Consequently the question of possible retrospective action is not relevant. 
As no change has been made or is contemplated I see no point in making further provision for examination by the Industries Assistance Commission. Particularly since all departmental decisions on valuation may be appealed to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal or the Courts. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 ), ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) The Trade Practices Act makes no specific provision in relation to small and uneconomic orders. A dealer is free to decide whether he will or will not deal with a particular customer except where his refusal to supply is taken for reasons related to resale price maintenance, exclusive dealing or monopolisation or is taken in agreement with his competitors. The Act however, gives special treatment to small businesses in relation to collective acquisition and joint advertising schemes with the purpose of allowing them to improve their buying position it they wish to. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
More than 3,000 companies are subject to the notification provisions of the Prices Justification Act A list of such companies has been prepared by the Tribunal but it is too voluminous to be incorporated into  Hansard.  However, should the honourable member wish to inspect the list, it will be made available to him by my office. 
Pursuant to section 35 of the Prices Justification Act 1973, 1 present the Prices Justification Tribunal Annual Report 1976-77 and its half yearly report for the six months ended 30 June 1977. 
Pursuant to section 171 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 I present the annual report of the Trade Practices Commission for the year ended 30 June 1977. Copies of the report will be sent to all members as soon as bulk supplies become available. In the meantime, copies of the report have been placed in the Parliamentary Library and the Table Office. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The primary purpose of the Bill I have just introduced is to make amendments to the Customs Act which will increase very substantially the maximum penalties for drug trafficking offences and provide for seizure and forfeiture of cash, cheques or goods that are in the possession or control of a person by reason of: 
His importing, selling, otherwise dealing in or having in possession any of the narcotic substances specified in Schedule 1 to the Bill; 
his aiding, abetting or being knowingly concerned in any such enterprise; or 
having been acquired by the person, in the case of goods, by purchase out of moneys received for participating in trafficking or, in the case of moneys, by the sale or exchange of goods received as proceeds from such participation. 
The proposal stems from acceptance by the Government of recommendations by the National Standing Control Committee on Drugs of Dependence which, late last year, were unanimously adopted by a meeting of Commonwealth and State Ministers concerned with drug abuse. The meeting of Ministers agreed that existing penalties for offences involving cannabis leaf should not be varied. While this decision requires differentiating between marihuana and other drugs as regards trafficking, it means retention of the existing lower-tier penalty for all drugs where the quantity concerned in an offence is not indicative of trafficking. 
Penalties for trafficking in drugs were last increased in 1971. However, significant developments since that date, namely: 
The alarming rise in trafficking in, and abuse of, extremely dangerous drugs such as heroin, morphine and concentrated cannabis derivatives, cannabis oil and cannabis resin; evidence of participation by 'organised crime' syndicates operating from overseas as well as within Australia; and emergence of Australia as a major market worthy .of inclusion in regular smuggling routes as a destination and as a transit pointusually for drugs en route to New Zealand-. indicate that the present maximum penalty level of $4,000 or 10 years imprisonment, or both, is singularly inadequate in view of the enormous rewards that can be reaped from the illicit trade. I do not need to tell honourable members that the participants in this shameful trade are dealers in the ultimate in human misery, degradation and despoliation and I am sure that all will agree that penalties of a sufficiently high level to serve as a deterrent are called for. 
In the past, the deterrent effect of the penalty has suffered because the ill-gotten gains from drug trafficking have been beyond the reach of the law even m those instances where, in the course of arrests and drug seizures, large sums of money have been intercepted in the course of changing hands. To correct this weakness and to strengthen the deterrent effect where strengthening is as much, if not more, needed than m the area of prescribed penalties, the Bill provides in clause 8 for the forfeiture to the Crown of moneys, cheques or goods that can be shown to be proceeds from drug-trafficking offences. Safeguards are included under which cash, cheques or goods seized from a person as forfeited to the Crown, but in respect of which another person establishes innocent ownership, shall, by direction of a court, be delivered to that lastmentioned person. Similar safeguards are included in respect of innocent storage of narcotic goods by warehouse licensees. 
Clause 10 of the Bill proposes that offences against the Customs Act that are related to importation, exportation or possession of a prohibited narcotic substance- other than cannabis in leaf form- and that involve a quantity of that substance that is not less than the quantity specified in relation to that substance in Schedule 1 to the Bill, be punishable by a penalty of up to $100,000 or by imprisonment for up to 25 years, or by both a fine and imprisonment up to those limits. The quantities set out in that Schedule as traffickable quantities are in accordance with the recommendations of the National Standing Control Committee on Drugs of Dependence to which I referred earlier. The quantities reflect the experience of law enforcement agencies in relation to amounts which would reasonably be consistent with personal use. In the light of the proposed substantial increase in penalties, the quantities decided upon are, in most cases, four times the quantity at present prescribed. The Bill proposes a number of other amendments to the Customs Act which are more of a general 'housekeeping' nature. These include: 
Amendments dealt with in clauses 3, 4 and 9 which are consequential to Australia's adoption last year of the Brussels Definition of Value. The 'Brussels' system relies on normal commercial documentation and does not require 'Customs' invoices. 
Amendments proposed by clauses 5 and 6 which are designed to provide greater flexibility for regulations to govern the granting, operation and transfer of licences or permissions in respect of goods subject to imports- export restriction. 
In co-operation with the Treasurer, by clause 7, a restructuring of provisions setting out the general requirements in relation to exports to provide a basis for eliminating the need for export licences under the Banking (Foreign Exchange) Regulations by upgrading the export entry as the sole control document. 
Although the proposed amendments require entry before export, instead of within the present three days grace, any apparent disadvantage to exporters is outweighed by, firstly. the elimination, consequential to the passage of this Bill, of export licences and, secondly, by the introduction of a system under which regular exporters may, subject to observance of the conditions of the system, furnish to Customs periodic returns of exports instead of shipment-by-shipment entries. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
A company known as J. Ray McDermott (Aust.) Pty Ltd was incorporated in New South Wales on 18 November 1968. The company is registered as a foreign company in South Australia, Tasmania and the Northern Territory and holds 'recognised company' status in Victoria, Queensland and Western Australia. It is not registered in the Australian Capital Territory. No other affiliates or related companies are known. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is in the tables below- 
For the information of honourable members I present the Temporary Assistance Authority annual report 1976-77. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill provides for the validation until 30 June 1978 of duties collected in pursuance of Customs 
Tariff Proposals Nos 1 1 to 32 introduced into the Parliament during the current session and not enacted to date. Under section 226 of the Customs Act the collection of duties in pursuance of Customs Tariff Proposals is protected against legal challenge for six months or until the close of the session of Parliament, whichever occurs first. The introduction and passage of a validation Bill is therefore a necessary machinery measure which takes over from section 226 pending the introduction of a Customs Tariff Amendment Bill which will formally enact the tariff changes contained in the proposals. Full details of the changes concerned were supplied to honourable members at the time of introduction of the relevant tariff proposals. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
I am indebted to the honourable member for Indi for his question because, like him, I have a very deep interest in this subject. 
-The Deputy Leader of the Opposition is always very vocal on matters concerning the Albury- Wodonga growth centre. Of course the Government of which he was a member was an organisation- I use the word deliberatelythat tried to jack things up in an artificial way. When his party was in office it took an action that caused more unemployment in the cities of Albury and Wodonga than any other government in the history of Australia had caused. I refer to the 25 per cent across the board tariff cut. Borg- Warner (Aust) Ltd, one of the best decentralised industries in Australia, cut its employment as a result of the action of the Whitlam Government. 
Pursuant to section 314 of the Bankruptcy Act 1966, I present the 10th annual report on the operation of the Bankruptcy Act 1 966 for the year ending 30 June 1 977. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to amend the Trade Practices Act to enable parties to certain commercial transactions, which fall within the definition in the Act of a consumer transaction, to limit their liability above a minimum level. 
The Trade Practices Amendment Act, which came into force on 1 July 1977, extended the definition of a consumer transaction to include certain commercial transactions involving acquisitions of goods or services costing less than $15,000. Since that amendment, the Government has received representations from sections of industry expressing strong concern. This concern relates to the possibility that, in certain circumstances, a breach of the non-excludable conditions and warranties implied by the Act into relevant commercial contracts could present industry with enormous costs for consequential damages. Furthermore, the Government has been informed that the risk involved in such circumstances is, for the most part, non-insurable. 
The Government has concluded that in the context of commercial dealings in commercial goods or services it is reasonable to allow parties to a contract to negotiate their own arrangements regarding liability for consequential damages flowing from a breach of the contract. The Government is seeking to free Australian commerce from unnecessary straitjackets imposed by legislation. The present position is unnecessarily restrictive. 
In making the amendments to which I have just referred, the Trade Practices Act will continue to maintain a basic philosophy that suppliers of goods or services should stand behind the quality and title of those goods or services in their dealings with business as well as with the public. Accordingly, the Bill does not allow liability for repair or replacement of faulty goods or services or for a breach of the undertakings in section 69 relating to title to be excluded. Further, the Bill does not allow relevant liability to be limited with total disregard to equity between the parties. The Government believes that recent amendments to the law in the United Kingdom in this regard are appropriate to the Australian situation. Accordingly, a limitation of liability in a contract governed by the Trade Practices Act may be challenged on the grounds that the limitation was not fair or reasonable between the parties. 
The Bill gives a list of indications as to the determination of fairness or reasonableness. Apart from the question of limitation of liability there are a number of technical difficulties in the language of the present Act relevant to calculating the monetary limit. Particularly, these relate to situations where goods are hired or leased or there are credit charges involved in a transaction. The Bill remedies these technical difficulties. 
I now turn to another matter dealt with in this Bill. Honourable members will be aware that quality standards for, and information about, consumer goods is the central concern of the Australian consumer movement. The present Act provides for consumer product safety standards and consumer product information standards to be prescribed by regulations. This has led to substantial delays due to complexities in drafting which have been greatly criticised by the consumer movement. This is an important area and the Government has decided to provide for alternative procedures to enable consumer product standards to be brought into law more simply. The procedure envisaged by the Bill seeks to rely upon the very substantial work done in the field of consumer standards by private organisations in Australia, particularly the Standards Association of Australia. 

 Mr Speaker, in a Press statement I made two days ago I referred to the intention of the Government to amend the Trade Practices Act with respect to manufacturers' warranties. The Government will be dealing with this matter early next year, upon our return to office. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 1 (a) Three libraries- Canberra, Sydney and Melbourne. 1 (b) The main purpose of all the libraries is to service the research and general working needs of the Department. 2 (a) See tables land 2. 
The answers to the honourable member's question are as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
My attention has been drawn to an article in the Adelaide  Advertiser  of 27 July 1977 regarding Adelaide petrol sellers. The article canvasses some of the complaints made about the petroleum industry. 
The Government does not intend to continue an examination of the oil industry in particular but matters such as the place of small retail outlets and dealer arrangements in the industry are being considered in the context of the Government's general monitoring of small business and of the effects of the Trade Practices Act. 
5 ) The Government has given support to collective acquisition schemes by its recent amendments to the Trade Practices Act which place these schemes in a more favourable position than formerly. In making these amendments, the Government acknowledged that the schemes may play an important role in protecting the position of small businesses such as those in the petroleum retail industry. 
The Trade Practices Act provides remedies for individuals who suffer as a result of contraventions of the Act. Legal aid may also be available for those individuals. Any disputes between individual dealers and oil companies would be a matter for the parties concerned. 
The honourable member has mentioned the Press statement of 3 1 May by my predecessor. In order to monitor future developments in the petroleum industry, the Government has established an Oil Industry Marketing Consultative Committee to provide a continuing source of information to the Government on marketing aspects of the Oil Industry and on 19 October I announced the initial membership of that Committee. 
I am advised that current industry statistics indicate a steady rise in average service station volumes during the last three years. 
and (10) I am not aware of the findings of every independent review of the industry. 
The Government is giving present consideration to this matter. 
No. 
No. Such information is not centrally recorded. 
14) The Trade Practices Act already prohibits forms of price discrimination that have or are likely to have, the effect of substantially lessening competition. The administration of the Act is vested in the Trade Practices Commission which, as an independent authority, has a discretion to institute proceedings in relation to contraventions of the Act 
15) I refer the honourable member to the statement on crude oil policy made in this House by the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for National Resources on 16 August 1977. The measures outlined in that statement the establishment of the Oil industry Marketing Consultative Committee, and the recent amendments to the Trade Practices Act are major initiatives taken by the Government regarding the petroleum industry. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Prices Justification Act requires companies which have been taken to inquiry by the Tribunal to notify the Tribunal within 14 days of receiving its report of the prices they are charging or propose to charge in the light of the Tribunal's findings. The stevedoring and farm machinery spare parts manufacturing companies covered by the Tribunal's inquiries notified the Tribunal that they had accepted its findings in regard to the charges and prices found to be justified by the Tribunal. 
A number of the manufacturers of farm machinery spare parts subsequently notified the Prices Justification Tribunal of proposed increased prices. The Tribunal found these increases to be justified in terms of the increased costs incurred by the companies. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) Please see my answer to question No. 1396. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. However, the Tribunal's decision was not given conditionally on the company undertaking new investment. 
I am informed that, in the period 1 June 1975 (BHP's financial year ends on 31 May) to 30 September 1977, capital expenditure at the company's steelworks amounted to about $ 150m, of which about $ 130m was authorised before June 1975. 
I am further informed that from June 1975 to 26 October 1 977, about $ 1 30m has been authorised for capital expenditure on major projects at the various steelworks, of which about $20m has already been spent. 
I am informed that the reported statement is substantially correct. 
The matter contained in the question asked by the honourable member for Parramatta is of tremendous importance, is one that concerns the Government greatly and is one that has occupied a great deal of my time since I was appointed Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. When my predecessor in this portfolio spoke in the House on 1 7 March last he indicated the details of the broad agreement that had been reached between the Commonwealth and the States in relation to a co-operative scheme for the regulation of the entire field of the companies and securities industry. He also indicated on that occasion that a great deal more work still needed to be done in relation to detail before a final agreement could be drawn up. Since 17 March there have been meetings of officers of the Commonwealth and the States, and there has been another meeting of Ministers. 
The honourable member asked whether actions by some States are slowing down progress in this matter. I feel that some States, by legislating in recent times, have perhaps given an indication that ultimately there may not be full co-operation, although I am bound to say that the ministerial meetings to date have indicated a large degree of co-operation between the several governments. There was to have been a meeting of Ministers on 9 December, but because of the importance of this issue I asked that the meeting be brought forward to 25 November. Unfortunately, not all Ministers are available on 25 November. The New South Wales AttorneyGeneral has asked that the next meeting be held on 9 December. Obviously he has shown a great deal of confidence in the return of this Government, because I am sure the New South Wales Government would not want to be negotiating with a Minister who might not be in office the following week. That is an official recognition by the Australian Labor Party  "I  New South Wales that this Government will be returned on 10 December. 
Unfortunately a meeting cannot be held on 9 December because the South Australian Minister will be unavailable. I understand that he will be in China on that day. The Tasmanian Minister has indicated the the meeting ought not to proceed unless all Ministers are present. I assure the honourable member for Parramatta and other honourable members that this matter will be pursued, both at the officer level and at the ministerial level, with a view to bringing in at the earliest possible date co-operative legislation that will be supported by both the Commonwealth and the States. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Apple and Pear Stabilization Export Duty Amendment Bill (No. 2) and the Apple and Pear Stabilization Export Duty Collection Amendment Bill (No. 2) as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the three Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
-in reply-The honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  has answered very clearly, very well and in a complete way the concern that has been expressed by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  on behalf of the Opposition, in regard to clause 5 of the Bill. I think I am right in saying that the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith has indicated general support for the rest of the measure that is before the House. However, because it is several days since I made my second reading speech on this subject, I think I should remind honourable members on both sides of the House that the Government, in arriving at its decision as expressed in clause 5 of this Bill, concluded that in the context of commercial dealings in commercial goods or services it is reasonable to allow, and I emphasise the word 'allow'- not to forceparties to a contract to negotiate their own arrangements regarding liability for consequential damages flowing from a breach of the contract. 
Let me make it clear that the Trade Practices Act will continue to maintain a basic philosophy .that suppliers of goods or services should stand behind the quality and title of those goods or services in their dealings with business as well as with the public. Accordingly, the Bill does not allow liability for repair or replacement of faulty goods or services of for a breach of the undertakings in section 69 relating to title to be excluded. Further, the Bill does not allow relevant liability to be limited with total disregard to equity between the parties. The Government believes that the recent amendments to the law in the United Kingdom in this regard are appropriate to the Australian situation. Because of this a limitation of liability in a contract governed by the Trade Practices Act may be challenged on the ground that the limitation was not fair and reasonable between the parties. 
The only other point that I wish to make is in regard to the fact that the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith singled out IBM Australia Ltd for criticism for the representations it made to the Government and, indeed, to the Opposition. I want to make it perfectly clear that representations were received from a large number of business organisations- not only from IBM- in regard to this matter and concern was expressed. It was because of this concern that the Government reviewed the definition of 'consumer' in the Trade Practices Act. Some time ago I made a public statement indicating that consideration was being given to amending the legislation in this regard. A large number of submissions were received not only from industry groups and commercial organisations but also from consumer groups. I am bound to say that, apart from the criticism levelled here today, I am not aware of any substantial criticism having been contained in the submissions I have received. In fact, I took the opportunity of discussing the matter with the Government's advisory group and, again, on that occasion there was general acceptance of the proposal that is now before the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
I do not want to go over all that I said in my second reading speech or in response at the end of the second reading debate but I want to reiterate one thing and that is that there have been representations made by groups other than the IBM company. Representations have been made by people other than those engaged in the computer industry. The other point I want to make very clear to the Committee is that the provision before the House to which the honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  objects, provides only for the parties to limit liability. It does not make it encumbent upon anybody to enter into such an arrangement. I am sure the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith did not wish to imply that but he did give me the impression that that could have been in his mind. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
in reply- I thank the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  for the support they have given to this measure. Indeed, it is heartening to see a measure of this nature supported so strongly from both sides of the House. In relation to the question raised by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith concerning the terms of reference of the National Royal Commission into Drugs, let me remind him and the House of the undertaking given by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  at the time the terms of reference were announced. It was, as the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith had indicated, mentioned at the time that perhaps the terms of reference ought to be widened in one way or another, and the Prime Minister pointed out that in the interests of getting the commission started as quickly as possible he felt the best course was for the commission to proceed with the terms of reference as laid down and he gave a clear undertaking that if the royal commissioner felt inhibited in any way in relation to the terms of reference then the Government would very quickly and sympathetically consider any request from the royal commissioner. 
I want to make it abundantly clear to this House and to the nation as a whole that the Government is determined to do everything possible in this field to reduce the menace of the drug problem in Australia and particularly to bring to justice those people who are trading off the health of other people, those people who are trafficking in drugs and as a result destroying the lives of many Australians. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
To 26 October 1977 the Industries Assistance Commission had produced 149 reports on matters referred to it These included all interim and final reports of the Commission but not draft reports. Action is yet to be taken on ten reports. Tides of the reports are given in the following table categorised according as to whether the principal recommendations were accepted and implemented. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There are in excess of 7,000 quota holders for all commodities. Their names and more particularly their entitlements to quota have not been published to date. However with the recent change in import quota arrangements to provide for the transferability of quota instruments in most circumstances, consideration is now being given to publishing the names of quota holders. 
At the same time, consideration will be given to the publication of individual entitlements. 
Quotas for apparel have only been transferred by' reason of one company taking over another company. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) See answer to question No. 1 820, part ( 1 ). 
Quotas for textiles have only been transferred by reason of one company taking over another company. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The ceilings of allowable imports in respect of shoes since the introduction of import licensing in October 1974 are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The allowable imports of passenger motor vehicles under quota in each of 1976 and 1977 were 90,000 units, the latter on a pro-rata basis for the period of licensing operation in that year. 
) and ( 3 ) See answer to question No. 1 820, part ( 1 ). 
This information is not held in the Department's data base. 
This information is not available from the Department's data base but all vehicles in bond at the time of introduction of the quota restrictions were required to be covered by quota. 
Quotas for vehicles have been transferred by reason of one company taking over another company; in addition, under the recent introduction of transferability of licences, one transfer has been approved. As to advice of details of transfers, see answer to Question No. 1 820, part ( 1 ). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Responsibility for the detection of and the enforcement against illicit cultivation of cannabis rests with State governments. Whether areas known to be suitable for its cultivation are capable of discovery by enforcement authorities is a matter which I am sure will be fully explored by the National Royal Commission of Inquiry into Drugs. 
I am not aware of any requests by State governments for financial assistance for aerial inspection of possible areas of illicit cultivation or for Defence aircraft to be used for this purpose. There have been joint operations by officers of my Department and State police forces where aircraft chartered with Federal funds and Defence aircraft have been used in aerial surveillance reconnaissance and surveys. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the reports on transformers and inductors; glucose and glucose syrups; paradichlorobenzene (by-law); mushrooms (NAFTA); ceramic tableware; certain internal combustion piston engines and parts therefore; certain spun yarns and wool textiles and other goods; agricultural wheeled tractors exceeding 105 kW; and further short term assistance arrangements for textiles, clothing and footwear. 
I move: 
Excise Tariff Proposal No. 1 (1978). 
The Excise Tariff Proposal relates to a proposed alteration to the Excise Tariff 1 92 1 . The proposal formally places before the Parliament, as required by law, a tariff change introduced by Gazette notice on 17 November 1977. This tariff change, which has effect from 18 November 1 977, restructures Item 1 7b of the Excise Tariff to clarify the duty liability in relation to condensate included in the Government's crude oil absorption scheme. Prior to this change, some producers of condensate in remote locations had interpreted the Excise Tariff as excluding such condensate from duty under Item 17b. This interpretation is contrary to the Government's policy in relation to the absorption of indigenous crude oil and condensate and the resultant liability for excise duty. 
The overall effect of the tariff change, and of the crude oil absorption policy in relation to condensate, is beneficial to producers of the condensate and to small inland refineries which process the condensate. Producers receive import parity price for their product and refiners can obtain feedstock at the average Australian price for indigenous crude oil. I commend the proposals. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
For the information of honourable members I present the interim report of the Industries Assistance Commission on bench or pedestal drilling machines belt driven pulley operated (non-power fed). 
Pursuant to section 29 (2) of the Industries Assistance Commission Act 1973, I present the report of the Temporary Assistance Authority on luggage. 
Pursuant to section 30 (2) of the Industries Assistance Commission Act 1973, 
I present the report of the Temporary Assistance Authority on fixed resistors. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Temporary Assistance Authority on spectacle frames, non-adjustable spanners and fork lift trucks, et cetera, not battery operated. 
-On behalf of the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair),  I move: 
That, in relation to the proceedings on any Sales Tax Bills, so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent- 
the presentation and the first readings of the Bills together; 
one motion being moved and one question being put in regard to, respectively, the second readings, the committee's report stage, and the third readings, of all the Bills together, and 
the consideration of all the Bills as a whole together in a committee of the whole. 
This motion is purely procedural and no immediate introduction of sales tax legislation is contemplated. Alteration of sales tax rates usually involves the introduction of nine sales tax Bills. Over a period of many years the House has found it convenient for the Bills to be taken together. Standing Order 291 permits these Bills to be introduced without notice but it is necessary to suspend Standing Orders to enable the Bills to be presented and dealt with together. When passed the motion will remain effective for this session. By moving the motion at this time we will avoid the speculation which could result if a motion were introduced later in the year. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The pressure of business towards the end of the last Budget sittings precluded the Industries Assistance Commission Amendment Bill which I introduced on 1 9 October 1 977 being considered by the Parliament before the dissolution of the House. The Bill I now bring forward gives effect to decisions concerning the role of the Industries Assistance Commission announced on 14 September last. The Bill also amends the temporary assistance provisions of the Industries Assistance Commission Act as foreshadowed earlier last year. 
One of the purposes of the Bill is to ensure that recommendations of the Commission are made in the light of Government policy and that the Commission's reports contain all relevant information to enable fully informed decisions to be made by the Government. I emphasise that the changes will not compromise the independence of the Commission, or its role in advising the Government on the nature and levels of assistance which should be afforded particular industries. The public inquiry and report procedures will continue as important features of the Commission's operation. The Bill provides that the Commission, in the performance of its functions, will have regard to the Government's desire to achieve sustained growth through balanced development of industries with a view to providing increased opportunities for employment and investment. The Bill also expresses the Government's objective that any measures to achieve changes in the structure of industry are taken only after due regard has been given to the capacity of the economy to sustain those changes and to absorb members of the work force displaced by those changes. 
The Minister will have the power to bring additional matters to the attention of the Commission and to direct the Commission as to the priority it should observe in having regard to its policy guidelines in the performance of its functions. Provision is also made for the Commission in reporting on matters relating to the giving, continuance or withdrawal of assistance to report on the level of assistance required to ensure that activity and employment in an industry is sustained. Where the IAC recommends a lower level of assistance than this, it will be required to state the reasons for doing so. The Commission will be required to report whether the structure of an industry can be improved and, if so, the measures by which this can be done and the consequences of such improvement. It will also report on the probable consequences of implementing its recommendations for the giving, continuance or withdrawal of assistance to an industry or group of industries. 
The Bill clarifies the role of the Temporary Assistance Authority- TAA- as the principal body dealing with temporary assistance matters. The Bill states that the principal purpose of a TAA inquiry is to enable the Authority to report on the level of assistance necessary to maintain the existing level or a previously existing level of activity and employment in an industry. The TAA will, as in the case of the Commission, be able to recommend to the Government any form of assistance which it considers appropriate. The Government will have the same flexibility in dealing with recommendations of the TAA as applies in respect of recommendations by the Commission. This change will mean that upon receipt of a report from the TAA the Government may not only accept, reject or partially adopt the Authority's recommendations but also take any other action it thinks fit in the circumstances. Not all temporary assistance matters will necessarily go to the TAA. From time to time there will be circumstances where short term problems are of such a nature and of such basic importance that they are immediately critical to the long term future of the industry. The option of referring such cases .to the Industries Assistance Commission rather than the TAA should this be warranted by the circumstances is, therefore, retained. Consistent with the Government's policy that inquiries by the advisory bodies should be held in public, the Bill requires the TAA to hold its inquiries in public. Inquiries by the TAA will also be bound by Part V of the Industries Assistance Commission Act which governs the manner in which Commission inquiries are held. 
The Bill also extends to 45 days from the present 30 days the time limit for the TAA to report on matters referred to it. This will facilitate proper inquiry procedures by that body and provide witnesses with better opportunities to prepare and present submissions. The present requirement for an automatic reference of an industry to the Commission following a decision to provide temporary assistance based upon a TAA report is unnecessarily restrictive and, in many cases, unwarranted. The Bill provides that temporary assistance granted following a TAA report will not continue for a period of more than 12 months without review by either the TAA or the Commission. Temporary assistance will not be provided beyond a second year unless a report on the industry concerned has been received from the IAC. Where an industry which obtains temporary assistance has received such assistance for two years or for a total of 2 years within the previous four years, it will be referred to the IAC for inquiry and report. 
The Bill provides that temporary assistance by way of import restraints or temporary duties will, in certain cases, not continue beyond three months after the receipt of an IAC report. These cases are where an industry seeks continuation of temporary assistance beyond two years or where, having received such assistance for a period of two years in the previous four years, it obtains further temporary assistance. The provision maintains restraints on the continuation of temporary assistance similar to those in the present Industries Assistance Commission Act. A consequential amendment is, however, required to the Customs Tariff Act, and a Bill for this purpose is being introduced with this amending legislation. As the TAA is concerned with industries which face actual and potential difficulties arising from import competition, the Bill provides as a guideline for the TAA the essence of the emergency action provisions of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade in relation to the withdrawal or suspension of obligations. These provisions allow for the withdrawal, suspension or modification of concessions by a contracting party, where it is necessary to take urgent action to provide assistance to an industry where any product is being imported in such increased quantities and under such conditions as to cause or threaten serious injury to domestic producers of like or directly competitive goods. 
Although the short-term problems of an industry warrant particular treatment, the Government is none the less conscious of the link between short-term and long-term assistance issues. For this reason the Bill specifically provides for the general criteria contained in section 22 ( 1 ) of the Industries Assistance Commission Act to continue to apply to enquiries conducted by the Temporary Assistance Authority. The Bill also provides for changes in the structure of the TAA itself. The TAA will comprise one full-time member and there is provision for the Minister to appoint associate members for specific inquiries, thus allowing for the appointment of persons having expertise in a particular area as the need arises. 
It has been a matter of concern to the Government that the present Act does not provide for references, or parts of references to either the Commission or the TAA to be withdrawn. This can lead to a situation where, during the course of an inquiry, it becomes apparent that there is no need for the inquiry or part of the inquiry to continue and consequently industry and other interested parties can face unnecessary costs. Provision is now made in the Bill for references to the Commission or the TAA to be withdrawn or amended. When sending a reference to the Commission, the Government will require the Commission in appropriate circumstances to report within a specific period of time. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, the changes to the Industries Assistance Commission Act contained in this Bill demonstrate the Government's concern that the Commission should be able to respond fully to the Government's policy with respect to industry and that efficient emergency procedures to safeguard industries should exist. The Government fully recognises the interdependence of short and long-term assistance. Temporary assistance will not, therefore, be provided in such a way that it effectively removes the need for industries to adapt to changing circumstances; rather it will be provided so as to allow industries to take appropriate action to adapt to such changes. These amendments will ensure that an appropriate balance is struck between long-term and short-term assistance. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, this Bill deals with amendments necessary to the Customs Tariff Act 1 966 consequent upon the proposed changes to temporary assistance measures foreshadowed in my second reading speech on the Industries Assistance Commission Act Amendment Bill 1978. The amendments provide that temporary assistance by way of temporary duties will, in certain cases, not continue beyond three months after receipt of a report from the Industries Assistance Commission. As explained in my speech on the Industries Assistance Commission Act Amendment Bill 1978, these cases are where an industry seeks continuation of temporary assistance beyond two years or where, having received such assistance for a period of two years in the previous four years, it obtains further temporary assistance. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
I draw the attention of the honourable member for Moore and of the House to the decision taken by the Government early in the second half of last year not to send to the Industries Assistance Commission the remaining references concerning the metal industries. It will be recalled that that decision was taken because of prevailing economic conditions in the metal industries. The Government pointed out quite clearly at the time that it had no intention of sending the references forward in view of the conditions operating then, or during any period when the references were likely to erode confidence in the metal industries. It is a fact that when such references go forward it takes some time, possibly in the order of two years, for them to be considered. The Government holds the strong view that if references of that kind were to go forward at this stage they would undermine confidence in the industry and would lead to a reduction, if not the elimination, of investment in the industry, with resultant further unemployment. The Government has no intention of sending references forward under those circumstances. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on injection moulding machines (by-law) and the Industries Assistance Commission interim report on brandy and whisky. 
I move: 
Customs TariffProposals No. 1 ( 1 978). 
The customs tariff proposals I have just tabled relate to proposed alterations to the Customs Tariff Act 1 966. The proposals implement the Government's decision to maintain tariff quota arrangements and existing rates of duty on brandy. The rates- $12.50 per litre of alcohol for clearances within quotas and $32.50 per litre of alcohol on clearances outside quota entitlements- will apply pending a report by the Industries Assistance Commission in the light of the outcome of the 1978 vintage. I commend the proposals to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Cohen)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to give effect to the Government's decision to provide assistance to the manufacture in Australia of polyester-cotton yarn. Following advice from the Industries Assistance Commission in its report No. 138 of 19 July 1977 on certain spun yarns and wool textiles and other goods, it has been decided to accord assistance by way of a bounty scheme providing for payment to Australian manufacturers of a bounty of $1.15 per kilogram on yarn consisting of a mixture of polyester and cotton fibres, in which the polyester fibres are not less than 50 per cent by weight, being single-fold combed yarn not coarser than 20 tex with at least one ply of 10 tex or coarser. 
The bounty, which is payable from 1 October 1977, is seen by the Government as according short-term assistance to local manufacturers to enable them to compete on reasonable terms with imports of combed fine count polyestercotton yarn. The question of long-term assistance is currently under review by the Industries Assistance Commission and it is anticipated that the Commission's report in this regard will be received towards the end of this year. Because of the short-term nature of the proposal, provision has been made for the scheme to operate on an annual basis, ceasing on 30 September 1 980, and for the amount available for payment of bounty not to exceed $600,000 annually. 
Clause 22 of the Bill continues the Government's policy of expanding, wherever possible, the jurisdiction of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal in relation to administrative decisions which affect rights or entitlements of persons under Commonwealth legislation. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
I move: 
by leave- I move: 
That the Committee of Privileges, when considering the matter referred to it on 28 February have power to send for persons, papers and records. 
The Committee when undertaking its present inquiry may wish to have the power granted by the motion and, in accordance with practice, the motion is proposed for the concurrence of the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
in reply- During this debate Opposition speakers have shown absolutely no enthusiasm for the amendment moved by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  Indeed,  speaker  after  speaker  from the Opposition side of the House have virtually apologised for the amendment. The Opposition has indicated clearly its support for the Bills. It has indicated that it will not oppose the motion for the second reading of these Bills. What little criticism has come from the other side of the House has been met by my second reading speech and the speeches by members of the Government parties. However, there are two or three points to which I should like to refer. 
Firstly, the honourable member for Ballarat  (Mr Short)  asked whether I would give an undertaking that when future references are sent to the Industries Assistance Commission a specific time limit would be attached to those references. It is not practical to do this, but I give an undertaking to the honourable member for Ballarat that the Government will require these references to be dealt with expeditiously both at the IAC level and the Government level when the reports are presented. There are occasions when time limits are attached to references but it is not practical to do so in all cases. 
A great deal has been said during the course of the debate about the long term situation in industry. Indeed, reference has been made to this aspect on both sides of the House. I should like briefly to draw attention to the fact that the Government has arranged for a study of this aspect to be undertaken by  Sir John  Crawford. He has been specifically requested to focus his attention upon the adjustment problems which eventually will be faced in the most highly protected Australian industries. 
Having said that, I want to refer to the comments by the honourable member for Adelaide when he led for the Opposition. He said that his Party stood for full employment and then he went on to attack the Government over its handling of protection for Australian industries. Let me remind the honourable member that it was his Prime Minister who on 27 June 1973 asked the then  chairman  of the Tariff Board to report on possible ways of increasing imports. That is the famous document that was not circulated. Indeed, the Prime Minister of the day referred to it as a confidential report. He said he wanted it in a hurry and he got it in a hurry. It was delivered to him on 15 July 1973 which is a little over two weeks from when it was requested. When that report was delivered to the Prime Minister it was clearly pointed out to him that if the Government of the day were to act upon a 25 per cent across the board tariff cut such a decision would reduce employment by more than 5 per cent in a number of areas and affect some 33,000 jobs, mainly in the textile, clothing and footwear industries. 
This is a fairly serious thing, particularly in the light of the fact that tonight the honourable member for Adelaide said that his Party stands for full employment. It is also interesting to note that during the last election campaign the then  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, when confronted by the then Treasurer on the television program Monday Conference, said- 
I am answering the honourable member for Adelaide, and I am entitled to do so. On that occasion the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said that his Government had had an over employment problem. They were the words that he used when referring to the reasons why his Government introduced the 25 per cent tariff cut. The Government rejects the amendment moved by the honourable member for Adelaide. The honourable member did not have his heart in it, nor did any member of the Opposition who supported him. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
It is a fact that IBM Australia Ltd made representations to me last year in relation to the definition of the word 'consumer' in the Trade Practices Act. It is also true that a number of other trading organisations made similar representations to me. In fact, I received interested groups in deputation. I discussed the problems that were raised with me at the time and later sought advice from my Department as to how the particular problem might be overcome. Subsequent to that discussion with my senior officers, I released a statement publicly as to what was proposed and sought representations on the matter. After a period of time- I do not recall the precise period but it was several weeks- I discussed with the Department the various representations that were received and then I made a public statement to that effect. Subsequent to that, of course, the matter was canvassed fully in this House when I introduced the legislation. It was debated and passed through this House and another place. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on tyre cord fabric and the Industries Assistance Commission report on the tourist accommodation industry. 
I move: 
Customs tariff proposals Nos. 3 to 9 ( 1978). 
The Customs tariff proposals I have just tabled relate to proposed alterations to the Customs Tariff Act 1966. The proposals formally place before Parliament, as required by law, tariff changes introduced by Gazette notices during the last recess. Proposals Nos. 3, 4 and 8 implement the Government's decision on recommendations made by the Industries Assistance Commission in its reports on glucose and glucose syrups, certain internal combustion piston engines and parts therefor, certain spun yarns and wool textiles and other goods, transformers and inductors, further short term assistance arrangements for textiles, clothing and footwear and ceramic tableware. 
Proposals No. 5 has the effect of amending the customs tariff to meet Australia 's obligations as a contracting party to the Customs Co-operation Council Nomenclature Convention. The amendments are drafting changes only and do not involve changes in rates of duty. 
Proposals No. 6 gives effect to the Government's decisions on recommendations made by the Temporary Assistance Authority in its Reports on luggage and fork lift trucks et cetera not being battery operated. 
Proposals No. 7 maintains the fixed rate portion of the duty applying to brassieres, entered outside quota entitlements, at $2 each until 30 June 1978. Proposals No. 9 provides for the admission under by-law, of acetate yarn for use in the manufacture of woven fabrics. A comprehensive summary setting out the nature of the changes in duty rates contained in these proposals is now being circulated to honourable members. I commend the proposals to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill now before the House is to give effect to the Government's decision to introduce a scheme, to reduce the prices paid for certain petroleum products by consumers in country areas throughout Australia. Products to be covered by the scheme will be motor spirit, power kerosene, automotive distillate and aviation fuels. 
Honourable members will recall that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  in the course of the last election campaign, stated that prompt steps would be taken after the election to implement a scheme which would subsidise freight differentials involved in transporting eligible petroleum products from refining ports and seaboard terminals to country sale points. These freight costs constitute a substantial element of the relatively high prices paid by rural consumers particularly in the more remote areas for various petroleum products. 
The proposed scheme will subsidise country freight differentials to the extent that country consumers of products covered by the scheme will pay a price which includes no more than 4c per gallon of the transport costs. The scheme will operate by means of grants made by the Commonwealth to the States pursuant to section 96 of the Constitution. These grants will be in amounts equal to moneys expended by the States in subsidising sales of eligible products by oil companies and other registered distributors, provided such payments are made in accordance with legal schemes formulated by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs under the Act. These legal schemes will formally set out the respective roles of the Commonwealth and the various States in the implementation of subsidy arrangements and will detail the relevant administative procedures. 
The freight differentials to be subsidised are based on costs submitted by individual oil companies to the Prices Justification Tribunal and accepted by that Tribunal. Rates of subsidy are calculated by deducting from these differentials that part of the freight cost to be borne by consumers, namely 4c per gallon approximately 0.9 cents per litre. For example, in the case of a freight differential of 10c per gallon the consumer will pay 4c only and the remaining 6c will be covered by subsidy under the scheme. 
Provision exists in terms of section 4 of the Act for the Minister to amend the scheme by varying rates of subsidy set out in the schedule of subsidies which is an integral part of the scheme and lists the subsidy rates applicable at some 8,000 locations throughout Australia. This provision enables account to be taken of requests by oil companies for variations in differentials in cases where freight cost charges have been established to the satisfaction of the Prices Justification Tribunal. Section 7a of the Act requires all amendments to the Schedule of subsidy rates to be tabled in the Parliament in the same manner as regulations. Disallowance by either House would result in the amended rates being revoked and previous rates continuing in force. Section 7 of the Act requires copies of the schedule and of all amendments to the schedule to be published in the  Gazette. 
The legal schemes in relation to each State provide that claims for subsidy are to be made only by oil companies and other distributors registered under the scheme by the Minister. Before such distributors may be registered they must enter into an agreement with the Commonwealth that they will pass on to consumers the full benefit of subsidy received in respect of all sales made at locations in the schedule. The States Grants (Petroleum Products) Act 1965, which it is proposed to amend by this Bill, formed the legal basis for the previous subsidy scheme. This scheme was terminated by ministerial action in 1974. The Government considers, however, that a scheme of such great significance to rural consumers of petroleum products should not be capable of termination by ministerial action only without reference to the Parliament. Accordingly, the Bill before the House provides that, except as authorised by a resolution of each house of the Parliament, the Minister shall not revoke or otherwise terminate the operation of the scheme. 
The earlier scheme also involved appropriate complementary State government legislation. This legislation is still extant and with certain amendments will be suitable for the same complementary function in the new scheme. The scheme will come into effect after the required State legislation amendments are effected. The scheme will operate in the Northern Territory on the basis of an ordinance of the Legislative Assembly of the Territory and an administration scheme legally formulated under that ordinance. 
Honourable members will appreciate that the proposed Australia-wide scheme is directed solely to subsidising freight costs in excess of 4c per gallon. It will therefore have no effect on the prices of petroleum products in metropolitan and other areas where freight differentials do not exceed the 4c subsidy margin. In addition, I would point out that the scheme is not related to, and will have no effect on, present motor spirit discounting practices whereby resellers in some areas are prepared to operate on the basis of minimal margins and large throughputs. The proposed subsidy scheme will substantially benefit large numbers of Australia's rural citizens whose economic activities and general well-being are so heavily dependent on the availability of reasonably priced transport and machinery fuels. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
in reply- This Bill is another job protection measure of which this Government is proud. I am grateful to honourable members who have participated in this debate for the support that they have given. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  who led for the Opposition asked me to respond to two matters. I am pleased to be able to advise him that the present rate is 15 per cent general and  Vh.  per cent preferential. That was the information he sought. He asked me also about other aspects of the report, particularly the question of long term assistance. I should like to advise the House and the honourable member for Adelaide that aspects of long term assistance are currently under review by the Industries Assistance Commission. I anticipate receiving the report later this year. Once the report is received, naturally it will be considered by the Government and in due course the Government will announce its decisions. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to give effect to the Government's decision to provide assistance to the manufacture in Australia of bench or pedestal drilling machines. These machines which are non-power fed are operated by means of belt-driven pulleys and have a drilling capacity of not more than 60 millimetres in mild steel under continuous operation in normal working conditions. Following advice from the Industries Assistance Commission in its report No. 146 of 30 September 1977 on bench or pedestal drilling machines belt-driven pulley operated (non-power fed), it has been decided to accord assistance, by way of a bounty scheme, providing for payment to Australian manufacturers of a bounty at the rate of one-third of the factory cost of the machines. 
The bounty, which is payable from 1 January 1978 is' seen by the Government as according short-term assistance to local manufacturers pending implementation of the decision on the longer-term assistance to the metal working machine tool industry. The question of long-term assistance has been reviewed by the Industries Assistance Commission and the Commission's report in this regard was circulated to interested parties in October 1977. Because of the shortterm nature of the proposal, provision has been made for the scheme to cease on 30 June 1 979 or such earlier date as is fixed by proclamation. Clause 20 of the Bill continues the Government's policy of expanding, where appropriate, the jurisdiction of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal in relation to administrative decisions which affect the rights or entitlements of persons under Commonwealth legislation. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
-I mo ve: 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on files and rasps. 
I am aware that quotas are being transferred and that high prices are in some instances being paid for these quotas. It is also a fact that quotas are allocated on an historic basis. As indicated by the honourable member, until quite recently there was no moving base. The Government took the decision to introduce the moving base period so as to bring closer to the period of the allocation of quotas the basis upon which the quotas were being allocated. The Government believes that this is fairer from the point of view of the genuine importer and it was for that reason that the decision was taken. I take the opportunity, in answering this question, to indicate that this is an area of concern to the Government and that certain aspects of quotas or the method by which quotas are allocated are under review. I would like also to make it clear in a very definite way that the Government is committed to quotas in the interests of preserving employment in Australia. I do not think the honourable member for Robertson is questioning that premise, but I wanted to make that clear lest my remarks in relation to the allocation of quotas be misinterpreted. Certain matters, such as those raised by the honourable member and others, are under review at the present time. 
in reply-I thank the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  and the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  for their very strong support for the Bounty (Drilling Machines) Bill 1978. Perhaps I might be permitted also to compliment them on their contributions to the debate. They have obviously given a great deal of thought to this measure which, although it is a relatively small one, is nevertheless very important when one considers the total benefit it provides to industry and, through industry, to employment. 
The honourable member for Adelaide asked me during his speech at the second reading stage to indicate in my reply the status of the long term inquiry of the Industries Assistance Commission into the metal working machine tool industry. I indicated during my second reading speech that the Commission's draft report has been circulated among the industry and that interested parties are at present making representations to the Industries Assistance Commission. However, I am not able to indicate when the Government will receive the final report of the IAC. The measure which is currently before the House is, of course, a temporary one. It is intended that its provisions will continue to have effect until 30 June 1 979 or such earlier date as is fixed by proclamation. That, in effect, indicates quite clearly that as soon as the final report of the IAC is received and dealt with by the Government and a decision is taken that decision will supercede the short term assistance provided under this measure. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
My attention has been drawn to the report referred to by the honourable member. I want to make it quite clear to him and to the House that no such instruction has been given by me or, to my knowledge, by any officer in my Department. On the contrary, the Prime Minister has made it quite clear that the Commonwealth will co-operate with New South Wales and South Australia, both of which States are conducting royal commissions into certain aspects of drugs. 
The Prime Minister has indicated also that because the Commonwealth has under way a national royal commission into drug trafficking the most sensible means of co-operation would be between the royal commissioners. If, for example, New South Wales or South Australia requires assistance, evidence or information from the Commonwealth, the proper course to be followed is for the royal commissioners in those States to approach the national royal commission. That procedure was laid down in correspondence between the Prime Minister and the Premiers of New South Wales and South Australia. I am sure that all honourable members will agree that that is the most beneficial way in which to ensure continuation of the high degree of co-operation which obviously is necessary. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report by the Industries Assistance Commission on Bottle Washing Machines (Developing Country Preferences). 
in reply- I can understand the widespread concern amongst members of the Australian Labor Party Opposition at the introduction of this measure into the Parliament because it represents yet another fulfilment of the Government policy from the last election. Not only does it represent the fulfilment of a promise, but it also represents the righting of an injustice done by the former Government when, by the stroke of a Minister's pen, a subsidy, a benefit to hundreds of thousands of people living in remote areas of Australia, was taken away. During the course of the debate the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has been attacked for not fulfilling his election undertaking. I say to the House deliberately that this measure fulfils the undertaking of this Government given at the last election. 
Debate interrupted. 
This legislation represents the fulfilment of an election undertaking given by the Prime Minister. Honourable members opposite have been careful when quoting from the Prime Minister's policy speech not to quote the relevant section. When dealing with this subject the Prime Minister said: 
This will be done by subsidising freight costs outside the metropolitan area on motor spirit, aviation fuel, automotive distillate and power kerosene. In effect, it will re-introduce the country freight differential scheme abandoned by the Labor Government. 
That is what we have done. We have reintroduced with this measure the differential scheme that was abandoned by our opponents whilst they were in government. I understand, as does the Government, the concern that has been expressed, by honourable members on the Government side of the House in a genuine way and by some Opposition members in a hypocritical way, about the pricing policies of some petrol companies and distributors. I am bound to say that the discounting policy pursued by some has been brought about by the pricing policy of oil companies and some distributors who have not made any attempt to get cut price petrol into country areas. In my view they are concerned only with metropolitan areas. They certainly would not be able to supply at the same discount prices if they were supplying petrol over the whole of Australia. 
This debate has been in two parts. Some honourable members have spent some time dealing with the measure before the House. Others have talked about this question, about price policy in the oil industry. Two undertakings were given by the Government during the last election campaign. The first was the introduction of this measure and the second was the calling of a conference of all parties in the oil industry to discuss pricing policy and other marketing aspects of the industry. That undertaking has also been fulfilled because the first session of that conference was held the week after the election. There has been a second session and the third will be held on 31 March. Following the conclusion of that conference, which I am chairing on behalf of the Government, it will be my responsibility to prepare a report coming out of that conference and a series of recommendations which I hope will overcome a lot of the problems that have been raised here tonight. 
The Government is conscious of these difficulties. It is conscious of the discrimination in prices across Australia and it is determined to do something about it. Insofar as Tasmania is concerned I say that I recognise the special problem that is confronted by that State. As a matter of fact, it has been the subject of communication between the Prime Minister and the Premier of Tasmania. Only last month the Prime Minister telexed the Premier of Tasmania and offered to arrange a conference between officials of the Commonwealth and officials of the State of Tasmania and representatives of the oil industry to see whether the problems peculiar to Tasmania could be overcome by such a conference. I have no doubt that the Premier of Tasmania will accept the offer from the Prime Minister, but I am bound to tell the House tonight that to date the Prime Minister has not received a response from the Premier. I believe that the Premier will respond and that the conference will take place, I feel confident that if such a conference takes place some good will come from it. 
I conclude by reminding the House that this measure is in accord with the Government's undertaking. The result of the implementation of the scheme that will flow from the passage of this legislation will be to restore to people who live in remote areas of Australia the freight subsidy based on the freight differential for the movement of petroleum products. This will assist greatly in overcoming the hardship that was caused when the Labor Government, by the stroke of a pen, removed a very worthwhile subsidy from people living in remote areas. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Keating's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
Claims for subsidy may be made only by oil companies and other distributors registered under the scheme which will be promulgated after the passage of this legislation. Before such distributors can be registered they will be required, as pointed out by the honourable member, to enter into an agreement with the Commonwealth that they will pass on to the re-seller the full benefit of subsidy received in respect of sales which are entitled to subsidy. The honourable member and the Committee will be aware that the Commonwealth does not have price fixing powers. These are powers that are exercised by the States but, as I have indicated, we will require by agreement that the freight subsidy be passed on to the re-seller. The subsidy rates will be well publicised. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on commercial motor vehicles, parts and accessories. 
by leave- I thought that it would not be necessary for me to make a contribution to the debate but in the light of the remarks made by the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris),  who has just resumed his seat, I thought that I ought to place on the record that you,  Sir, have  the complete support of the Government in this matter. It is a very serious matter. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has pointed out on previous occasions, and as you also have pointed out, the measures proposed are for the safety and well-being not only of members of the Parliament but also of all people who work in the building as well as those who visit it. Obviously there could be some small problems in the early stages but I am sure that with understanding and support from all members of this chamber you and your officers will be able to provide appropriate protection and arrangements which will be beneficial to all. 
Pursuant to section 29(2) of the Industries Assistance Commission Act 1973, 1 present the report of the Temporary Assistance Authority on screws for wood. I move: 
Customs Tariffproposals numbers 1 1 and 12 ( 1 978 ). 
The Customs Tariffproposals I have just tabled relate to proposed alterations to the Customs Tariff Act 1966. Proposals No. 11 place before Parliament, as required by law, tariff changes made by  Gazette  notice during the Easter recess. The changes implement the Government's decision on the recommendations made by the Industries Assistance Commission on elevating work platforms which formed part of its report on commercial motor vehicles, parts and accessories. 
Proposals No. 12 implements the Government's decision on recommendations made by the Temporary Assistance Authority in its report on screws for wood. The effect of the decision is that the rate of duty applying to most imports of woodscrews will be increased to 40 per cent. The temporary additional duty will not apply to imports of woodscrews from New Zealand, Papua New Guinea or certain developing countries. A comprehensive summary of the changes contained in the Proposals has been prepared and is now being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Proposals to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I am acutely aware of the problem that has been mentioned by the honourable member for McMillan concerning the difficulties facing food processors in Australia in having to compete with heavily subsidised imports from member states of the European Economic Community. The Australian cheese industry in particular has been experiencing problems with subsidised imports from various countries throughout the world, including member countries of the EEC. I would like to make it clear to the honourable member and indeed to the House that the Government is prepared to take very strong action under the provisions of the Customs Tariff (Anti-Dumping) Act to protect the local industry against such unfairly priced products. Dumping and countervailing duties can be imposed under the legislation and, should industry lodge a complaint with the Government, we will take immediate and strong action. This is a matter that is concerning us greatly and any requests from industry to investigate dumping action of this nature will be dealt with expeditiously by my Department and appropriate action will be taken. 
I read the report in the Wagga Wagga  Daily Advertiser  of 15 March to which the honourable member for Kalgoorlie has referred. I take it from the manner in which the honourable member raised his question that he does not believe that deportation to Western Australia is an appropriate penalty. 
Seriously, the point that was made by the magistrate in this case was that this man had been involved in drug trafficking- indeed, the word 'supplying' is the appropriate word in this case. I am sure that all responsible Australians are concerned about people supplying drugs to other people. As Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, I am extremely concerned about drug trafficking, particularly the illegal importation of drugs into this country. 
In answering this question, I make it clear on behalf of the Government that it is our resolve to crack down and to use all the facilities available to the Government in this particular field. Every aspect of our administration and our responsibility in this field is continually under review. Honourable members will recall that, late last year, I introduced legislation to increase penalties for drug trafficking. I want it made widely known that, even though those penalties were increased as recently as November last year, they are being reviewed further. 
We are concerned about two aspects: Firstly, the social problems that occur in the communitythe ruination of lives, particularly the lives of young people. Those people who are involved in drug trafficking can expect no quarter from this Government. I am concerned also, as indeed is the Government, about some of the penalties which are being imposed by the courts. I hope that in the future the courts will take note not only of the penalties that have been prescribed by this Parliament but also of the mood of this Parliament in increasing those penalties. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to give effect to the Government's decision to provide assistance to the manufacture in Australia of agricultural tractors with an engine output exceeding 105 kilowatts. Following advice from the Industries Assistance Commission in its report No. 142 of 18 August 1977 on agricultural wheeled tractors exceeding 105 kilowatts, it has been decided to accord assistance, by way of a bounty scheme, providing for payment to Australian manufacturers of a bounty payable at the rates set out in the Schedule to the Bill. The bounty, which is payable from the date on which the Act receives royal assent is made under the same terms and conditions to that applicable to agricultural tractors with an engine output of 105 kilowatts or below, including the quarterly adjustment of the Schedule to reflect import price movements. In relation to import price movements, provision has been made for the regulations to prescribe a factor by which amounts payable as bounty may be varied from time to time. This factor has, to date, been ascertained by reference to the Reserve Bank of Australia import price index for the 'machinery except electric' group. The amounts of bounty shown in the Schedule to the Bill are those recommended by the Industries Assistance Commission, updated to the first quarter 1977 values by application of the factor so calculated. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
Some little while ago my attention was drawn by the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs to the fact that a member of Parliament- a member of another chamber- did have goods forwarded to him. I think the goods were handed to a Foreign Affairs official overseas and they were subsequently forwarded to the member in a diplomatic bag. The diplomatic bag was opened by Foreign Affairs officials in the ordinary way and a Customs officer's attention was drawn to this matter. The matter has been dealt with in the ordinary way. The goods have been seized. 
No, they were not. The goods were seized in the ordinary way and to the best of my knowledge no other action has been taken and no other action is likely to be taken. I have not caused any special inquiry to be conducted. The matter was merely drawn to my attention by the Department because the person concerned happened to be a member of Parliament. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to give effect to the Government's decision to continue assistance by way of a bounty to producers of books in Australia for a further period of 12 months. The extension of the bounty assistance is being made as an interim measure pending implementation of a decision on longer term assistance to the Australian printing industry, which includes book manufacture. The question of long term assistance is currently being reviewed by the Industries Assistance Commission and the Commission's report in this regard is expected by 31 July 1978. Because the Australian book manufacturing industry is already being asked to quote for work in 1979 the Government has, in making this decision, been mindful of the advice from the Commission that the future of the industry would be seriously affected unless the operation of the book bounty scheme is extended. Clause 8 of the Bill continues the Government's policy of expanding, wherever possible, the jurisdiction of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal in relation to administrative decisions which affect the rights or entitlements of persons under Commonwealth legislation. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to enact the excise tariff alteration moved in the House on 22 February 1978 by Excise Tariff Proposal No. 1. The alteration, which has effect from 18 November 1977, restructures Item 17b of the Excise Tariff to clarify the duty liability in relation to condensate included in the Government's crude oil absorption scheme. Prior to the alteration, some producers of condensate in remote locations had interpreted the Excise Tariff as excluding such condensate from duty under Item 17b. This interpretation is contrary to the Government's policy in relation to the absorption of indigenous crude oil and condensate and the resultant liability for excise duty. 
The overall effect of the alteration, and of the crude oil absorption policy in relation to condensate, is beneficial to producers of the condensate and to small inland refineries which process the condensate. Producers receive import parity price for their product and refiners can obtain feedstock at the average Australian price for indigenous crude oil. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill embodies amendments to the Trade Practices Act which arise as part of a continuing program of study and monitoring of the effect of that Act on conduct in the Australian market place. The Government has always made it clear that it will keep the Trade Practices Act under close study. We will not rest on the results of the important and intensive examination of the law by the Swanson review committee which reported to the Government in 1976. The Bill also introduces provisions dealing with manufacturers' warranties which were recommended by the Swanson Committee, and a Senate select committee, and which were foreshadowed by the Government last year. 
It is the policy of the Government that the Trade Practices Act operate evenhandedly and be conducive to the sensible regulation of business activity, fair trading and freedom in Australian trade and commerce. The Government is determined, however, that trade and commerce in this country will not be hindered by over-regulation. 
This Bill deals with three main matters; an extension of the present exception from the prohibition in section 45A of the Act of price fixing for joint ventures relating to services- to correspond with that relating to goods; the introduction of a specific prohibition of false or misleading job advertisements; and the inclusion in the Act of provisions relating to manufacturers' warranties. The Bill also makes a number of more minor amendments, the need for which has come to light since the passage of the Trade Practices Amendment Acts of 1977. These amendments include the widening of the scope of the unsafe product provisions of the Act to include the protection of members of the public. 
Further, the Bill provides that members of the Trade Practices Commission may, with the consent of the Minister, engage in paid employment outside the duties of office. This would ensure that members may serve, for example, with the Defence Reserve. The Bill also enables the Minister to make acting appointments to the positions of registrar or deputy registrar of the Trade Practices Tribunal- to facilitate the administration of the Tribunal. 
I deal now with the amendment relating to joint ventures for services. It was the intention of the Government that the 1977 amendments to the Trade Practices Act provide for joint ventures, in relation to price fixing arrangements, equality of treatment between joint ventures for goods and joint ventures for services. After enactment of the Trade Practices Amendment Act 1977 it came to the attention of the Government that there was a possible problem that the law discriminated unfavourably in respect of joint ventures for services. The problem was brought to attention particularly in relation to joint venture financing agreements. It would clearly be anomalous for the Trade Practices Act to encourage joint ventures for the production of goods and, at the same time, discourage creative joint ventures in respect of services. The amendment to section 45A of the Act, by clause 8 of this Bill, is designed to remove any unintended discrimination between goods and services. This amendment has also been made retrospective to 1 July 1 977 to ensure that no joint venture for services is disadvantaged by a possible adverse interpretation of the present law. 
With respect to the amendments relating to false or misleading job advertisements, the Government is concerned that job-seekers should receive accurate information in relation to employment opportunities. The Act already applies, in limited respect, to misleading or deceptive job advertisements by employment agencies. It does not apply at all to such advertisements by employers. The Bill seeks to provide a strong prohibition of such undesirable conduct. 
I turn now to manufacturers' warranties. In my second reading speech introducing the Trade Practices Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1977 in November last year, I indicated that the Government would be proceeding with legislation in relation to manufacturers' warranties early this year. This legislation is regarded by the Government as an important innovation. The proposal for the inclusion in the Act of provisions dealing with the liability of manufacturers was one of the recommendations of the Swanson committee report. It was also recommended in a report of the Senate Standing Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs. Those reports considered that it is the manufacturer placing goods on the market in the first place who is largely responsible for the quality of the goods. Accordingly, it is sensible for the law to require manufacturers to be directly responsible for statutorily imposed standards in respect of the quality of those goods. South Australia already has manufacturers' warranties legislation, as has the Australian Capital Territory. 
Early last year the Government circulated for public comment draft amendments to the Trade Practices Act dealing with this subject. Many submissions were received from industry, consumer organisations and individuals. These submissions greatly assisted the drafting of the Bill I now place before the Parliament. However, I would like to take this opportunity to correct some misunderstandings which have been expressed about this legislation. First, there is a misunderstanding that the retailer would be made liable under the legislation. This is incorrect. The retailer is, as a general rule, already liable under current law. There is no change to the legal liability of retailers under the Bill. The amendments will make manufacturers or importers generally concurrently liable with retailers. Secondly, there is a misunderstanding, apparently based on and influenced by reports of United States developments, that the liability of manufacturers or importers will be considerably greater than that which already applies to retailers. This would not be so. In general, liability only arises where there is a breach of certain statutory obligations, such as fitness for purpose of merchantable quality of relevant goods. However, a wider liability arises in two respects: one in relation to the reasonable availability of repair facilities and spare parts and the other in relation to express warranties- provisions appropriate to the manufacturer or importer of goods. 
I commend this Bill to the House generally, and particularly draw attention to clause 14 of the Bill which embodies the provisions dealing with manufacturers ' and importers ' liability. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the interests of facilitating transfer of import quota entitlement the Government has decided to publish the names and addresses of all import quota holders every six months. This will apply not only to apparel, textiles, footwear and passenger motor vehicles but also to all goods subject to quota control whether by tariff quotas or import licensing. 
This information which comprises approximately 7,000 names and addresses has been prepared and forwarded to the Government Printer for inclusion in the Commonwealth Government of Australia Gazette and it is expected that the actual publication will be made at the end of this month. 
The question of whether or not publication of individual entitlements should be made is still under examination. The views of interested parties will be taken into consideration before a final decision is made. 
The publication of actual quantities held by individual quota holders raises the question of commercial confidentiality and this aspect will be closely examined by my Department. A decision will be made on this aspect as soon as possible. 
While the names and addresses of quota holders achieving quota by transfer will be included in the published lists, they will not be separately identified. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on razors, razor blades and razor blade blanks. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Temporary Assistance Authority on thin wood based panels. 
by leave- I move: 
That, unless otherwise ordered- 
1 ) the House shall meet on the following days and at the times specified: 

<graphic href="109131197805022_38_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="109131197805022_39_1.jpg"></graphic>

Unless  Mr Speaker  has, by telegram or letter addressed to each Member of the House, fixed an alternative day or hour of meeting. 

<graphic href="109131197805022_39_2.jpg"></graphic>

On Friday, 5 May, Friday, 26 May and Friday, 2 June, the terms of standing order No. 48  A  relating to the adjournment of the House shall apply with the times ' 5.30 p.m. ' substituted for ' 10.30 p.m. ', '6 p.m. ' substituted for ' 1 1 p.m. ' and  6. 1 0 p.m. ' substituted for ' 1 1 . 1 0 p.m. '. 
As indicated by the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  on 13 April it is proposed to change the pattern of sittings to enable the House to sit from today until Friday of this week and Monday to Thursday of next week. It is proposed that on Thursday, 1 1 May the House will adjourn until Tuesday, 23 May thus reducing the break from two weeks to one week and to sit from Tuesday to Friday of that week and Monday to Friday of the following week, The Leader of the House also indicated that it was proposed to modify the sitting hours. It is proposed that until Friday, 2 June the House meet at 10 a.m. on every sitting Thursday and Friday and on the Wednesday of the second sitting week in each of the two-week sitting periods. Finally, the Leader of the House indicated that it was proposed that on Friday 5 May, Friday 26 May and Friday 2 June the question for the adjournment of the House would be proposed at 5.30 p.m., allowing half an hour for an adjournment debate. The motion I have just moved gives effect to these proposals. It is hoped that by agreeing to the proposals consideration of the business of the House will be concluded by Friday, 2 June. 
in reply- The comments made by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  and the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  amaze me. I do not know where they have been in recent times. They ought to be aware, as every member of this House is, that the 4-day sitting week has been introduced for a trial period only. Indeed, the 4-day sitting week has been introduced for a trial period to see whether it will assist those honourable members who live in isolated parts of Australia, such as members who have to travel to the Northern Territory, Western Australia and Tasmania. No final decision has been taken whether the 4-day sitting week will be retained. Honourable members should know- and had they been attending the House they would know- that this is for a trial period and it has been generally agreed to. I have taken note of the points raised by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  I give him an assurance, as I do the House, that with the cooperation of the Opposition, the Government feels confident that in the program that has been announced this evening there will be adequate time for proper debate on the measures that the Government proposes to bring forward during this sitting. 

<graphic href="109131197805022_41_2_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="109131197805022_41_2_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="109131197805022_41_2_3_P.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The following amounts were spent on advertising during the periods- 
11.1 1.75 to 13.12.75- $3,338.65 
14.12.75to30.06.76-$17,431.83 
01.07.76 to 30.06.77-$62,371.20 
01.07.77 to 28.02.78-$43,399.07. 
The Department has not undertaken any specific campaigns for Government programs and services. Advertising expenditure by theDepartment is an ongoing expense and is incurred for the following purposes: 
recruitment 
legal notices 
Gazette notices 
Customs auction sales. 
Funds are allocated under 'Incidental and Other Expenditure'. 
Under direction of the Australian Government Advertising Service the following agencies are used: 
Insight Advertising 
Berrie Currie Pty Ltd. 
Gordon &amp; Gotch ( Aust.) Ltd. 
5 ) Not applicable- no specific campaigns. 
Directed by Australian Government Advertising Service. 
Estimate for 1 977-78 is $74,500. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Senate question 1116, (Senate  Hansard,  9 November 1977, pages 2397-8). 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on sporting and recreational equipment: Tennis and squash racquets (developing country preferences). 
I seek the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate on the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill 1978 is resumed, I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the ministerial statement relating to uranium development. Of course, separate questions will be put on each of the measures at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the two Orders of the Day to be discussed in this debate. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering both this Bill and the Environmental Protection (Northern Territory Supreme Court) Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore, that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to House of Representatives Question No. 468 (House of Representatives  Hansard,  4 April 1978, page 978). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Australia maintains two narcotics offices overseas. 
They are located in Bangkok and Kuala Lumpur. 
) There is one officer at each post. 
Both officers have extensive experience in drug law enforcement and investigate duties. 
No foreign country maintains a narcotics bureau within Australia. 
-The answer to the honourble member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Industries Assistance Commission advises that its draft report on this inquiry will be available about the middle of this year. 
Yes. 
I seek leave to move a motion regarding the adjournment of the House. 
Leave not granted. 
I move: 
That Standing Order 48a (Adjournment of the House) and Standing Order 103, ( 1 1 o'clock rule) be suspended for this sitting. 
The intention of the Government is to facilitate the passage of the two Bills that are the subject of this cognate debate. 
Donald Roy Tait, a pilot, and Michael Leonard Bartley, his passenger, were arrested in the Katherine area in the Northern Territory after being pursued when in a light aircraft by a Royal Australian Air Force Hercules on 2 1 January this year. It is true that Tait was sentenced in the Darwin Supreme Court on 26 April this year to a term of imprisonment of six years and eight months, with a non-parole period of two years and nine months. Bartley was sentenced to a term of imprisonment of three years and eight months, with a non-parole period of one year and six months. I am concerned about what I consider to be the inadequacy of the sentence, particularly the non-parole period, and I indicate that the Crown would like to appeal, particularly in relation to the non-parole period. There is a question as to whether or not the Crown is able to appeal against the non-parole period imposed, and that matter is at present under active consideration. If it is found in law that we can appeal, then an appeal will be lodged. If not, I will be examining the matter with a view to reporting to the Government on the necessity to amend the law in some way in order to make it possible to appeal in these cases. 
The honourable member asked about penalties generally. That matter also is under active consideration by the Government. I plan to have discussions next week in Queensland with State Ministers responsible for penalties in this area. The Government has indicated that the question of penalties needs further review. In the case of marihuana- it was marihuana that Tait had been convicted for importing- the maximum sentence is 10 years, whereas in the case of hard drugs it is 25 years. I give the honourable member and the House an assurance that this question of penalties is being reviewed and will be prosecuted as a matter of urgency, and a report will be placed before the Government in the very near future. 
-On behalf of the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair),  I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, leave be granted to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works to meet during sittings of the House up to and including Thursday, 1 1 May 1978. 
The Leader of the House has asked me to point out that other than in this particular case, it is not the intention of the Government to have the Committee meeting during the sittings of the House. The Government does not believe that it is a good principle that committees meet while the House is sitting. However, there is a particular need in this situation to clean up some outstanding business before the end of the session. 
The Leader of the Opposition and other honourable members will be aware that the Government is determined to reserve 80 per cent of the market for Australian car manufacturers. This is a conscious decision that has been taken by this Government to assist the Australian motor industry. Unlike the unhelpful assistance that comes from the other side of the House, the Government's action in this regard is being appreciated by the Australian motor vehicle industry and is of enormous assistance. 
In relation to the specific aspect of the honourable member's question, I draw his attention and that of other honourable members to the fact that there was an Industries Assistance Commission inquiry into this particular matter and recommendations were made as to how the 20 per cent of the market that would be imported would be broken up between the companies concerned. Obviously a base period had to be determined. The history of imports during that base period was taken into consideraton when making the allocation. With regard to the current year, all allocations have not been made. We are not able to determine in advance precisely what the total market will be and we are resolved to ensure that no more than 20 per cent of the total market is imported from overseas. I have no knowledge of the specific transfer to which the honourable member referred in his question. If he cares to give me the details, I will undertake to have them investigated as a matter of urgency. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The records kept by my Department are not such as to allow of the question being answered without some difficulty. However, the figures given are as nearly correct as is possible. 
1 ) The small businesses which became bankrupt or made arrangements with creditors during the periods shown numbered: 
1975-76-1,490 
1976-77-1,502 
1.7.77-31.12.77-890 
1.1.78-8.3.78-299. 
I am unable to give any figures as to liquidations as, apart from the three territories, these are controlled by State law. 
The taxpayers denned as essentially deriving their income from farming who became bankrupt or made arrangements with creditors during the periods shown numbered: 
1975-76-15 (U) 1976-77-12 
1.7.77-31.12.77-11 
1.1.78-8.3.78-8. 
The businesses essentially involved in farming which became bankrupt or made arrangements with creditors during the periods shown numbered: 
1975-76-56 
1976-77-59 
1.7.77-31.12.77-30 
1.1.78-8.3.78-9. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) On 24 January 1978 I said that a committee of permanent heads would report within one month on the detailed measures necessary to achieve an up-graded air and sea surveillance in the north and west of Australia. 
and (3) The committee of permanent heads met on 23 February 1 978. Because of the complexity of the issues involved the permanent heads have been given a further two months to finalise their recommendations. 
Yes. 
Oil Pollution of the Sea (Question No. 788) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Arrangements have been made between the Federal Royal Commission on Drugs and the New South Wales Royal Commission on Drugs for the provision of information and assistance by Commonwealth officers. 
Officers of the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs, including officers of the Narcotics Bureau, have met all requests to them for assistance and information received from the New South Wales Royal Commission. 
No instructions, either formal or informal, have been given to officers of the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs and in particular officers of the Narcotics Bureau, concerning non co-operation with or provision of information to the New South Wales Royal Commission. 
I thank not only the honourable member for Forrest for asking this question but also honourable members in the Government parties for the significant role they have played in bringing about the reintroduction of the petroleum freight subsidy scheme which applied from 1965 until it was terminated in 1974 by the predecessor of this Government. This scheme is designed to reduce the freight component of the price of petrol and other prescribed fuels throughout Australia. The fuels concerned are motor spirit, power kerosene, aviation fuels and automotive distillate. The scheme is designed initially to ensure that the freight component nowhere in Australia is more than 0.88c per litre or 4c per gallon. 
The honourable member asked when this subsidy scheme will commence and when motorists, particularly those in the remote areas of Australia, will obtain the benefit of this scheme. I am happy to inform the honourable member that on 26 January of this year, Australia Day, the Prime Minister wrote to all State Premiers and the Minister for the Northern Territory seeking the co-operation of those administrations in ensuring the early implementation of the scheme. The scheme cannot be implemented without the co-operation of the States. Honourable members will be aware that the national legislation has passed through this Parliament and has received Royal Assent. The Northern Territory will be the first part of Australia to receive the benefit. I am pleased to announce that the benefit will be passed on in the Northern Territory as from and including 19 May. I believe that Western Australia will be in a position to pass on the subsidy in the very near future. 
Regrettably some States have not moved as quickly as others and it will be later in the year before they are in a position to pass on the benefit to the motoring public. I regret this, but the Government has taken the view that it should not hold up the implementation of this scheme until all States are in a position to pass on the benefits. Therefore we now propose to implement the scheme as each State is in a position to pass the benefits on to the consuming public. The benefits are very real. In Alice Springs it amounts to 2.4c per litre; in Kalgoorlie 1.1c per litre and in Laverton 3.4c per litre. So the benefits are very significant to people who live in outlying areas of Australia. I am sure that the Government's decision and the Government's speed in fulfilling its election undertaking will be welcomed. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978 now before the House proposes amendments to the Customs Tariff Act 1966. The Bill, which contains 34 schedules, is necessary to enact tariff changes made since April 1977. All the changes were incorporated in Customs Tariff Proposals Nos. 1 1 to 32 (1977) and Nos. 1 to 12 (1978) which have been introduced into the Parliament at different times since April 1977. 
In the main, the amendments give effect to decisions by the Government in respect of the following reports of the Industries Assistance Commission and the Temporary Assistance Authority: 
Australian Olive Industry 
Multilateral Trade Negotiations: 
General Rates of Duty 
Certain Paper and Paperboard: 
TariffQuotas 
Monochrome Television Receivers and Certain Electronic Components 
Orange Juice 
Umbrellas 
Pharmaceutical and Veterinary Products 
Plywood and Veneer (Thick Plywood) 
Sacks, Bags and Certain Polyolefin Fabrics 
Ceramic Floor and Wall Tiles 
Review Enquiry No. 12: Clothing Children's Knitted Tracksuits, Playsuits, Rompersuits and Like Garments: TariffQuotas 
Batteries Part B: Primary Batteries 
Tyres 
Pumps and Compressors 
Electrical Control Apparatus and Insulating Fittings 
Carpets 
Measuring, Checking, Precision Instruments and Apparatus, Etc.; Clocks and Watches, Etc.; Medical Apparatus, Lenses, Etc.; Cine Cameras, Projectors, Etc. 
Tyre Cord Fabrics 
Vices 
Manually Operated Chain Hoists, Chain Pulley Tackle and Chain Winches 
Brandy, Whisky, Gin and Vodka 
Stranded Wire, Cables, Etc. of Copper- Insulated Electric Wire, Cable, Etc. 
Rubber Tyres and Tyre Cases 
Potatoes and Processed Potato Products 
Ceramic Tableware 
Certain Spun Yarns and Wool Textiles and Other Goods 
Glucose and Glucose Syrups 
Transformers and Inductors 
Certain Internal Combustion Engines and Parts Therefor Further Short Term Assistance Arrangements for Textiles, Clothing and Footwear 
Luggage 
Fork Lift Trucks- Not Battery Operated 
Brandy and Whisky 
Files and Rasps 
Tyre Cord Fabric 
Commercial Motor Vehicles, Parts and Accessories 
Screws for Wood 
Honourable members will recall that, when the Tariff Proposals were introduced into the House, a comprehensive summary in respect of each of the Proposals was circulated which set out the nature of the change in duty rates and the origin of each change. I have had a consolidation of those summaries prepared and copies may be obtained from the Table Office. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Uren)  adjourned. 
In answering the honourable member's question I remind the House that, following the apprehension of two people as a result of the illegal importation of a large quantity of drugs into Australia on 21 January of this year, the two people concerned, Donald Roy Tait and Michael Leonard Bartley, were sentenced in the Darwin Supreme Court. Tait was sentenced to six years and eight months imprisonment with a non-parole period of two years and nine months; Bartley was sentenced to three years and eight months with a non-parole period of one year and six months. When answering a question a week or so ago I indicated that I was concerned at the inadequacy of the sentences. I am able to inform the House that I have instructed my Department to seek leave to appeal against the inadequacy of both sentences. 
The honourable member also drew attention to the disparity between the sentences passed on these two men and the sentences passed in relation to offences committed by two American women. It will be recalled that the two women were sentenced to a term of 14 years imprisonment. I point out to the House that the two American women were sentenced under that part of the customs law that concerns the illegal importation of hard drugs- for importing hashish in resin form, which is described as a hard drug under the legislation. The maximum sentence for the illegal importation of hard drugs is 25 years. Tait and Bartley were sentenced in relation to the importation of cannabis in Buddha stick form and this offence carries a maximum sentence of only 10 years. That partly accounts for the disparity between the two sentences. I am able to inform the honourable member and the House that the maximum penalties are under consideration and I expect to discuss the matter on Monday next with State Ministers who have a responsibility in this field. It will be my intention at these discussions to obtain agreement with the States to increase the maximum penalties. 
I have received the Industries Assistance Commission report in relation to the copper industry. It is not a report that deals specifically and only with the Mt Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd, but obviously the operations of that company are covered by the report. The procedure that is adopted is that when the report is received by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs it is immediately referred to the Standing Committee on Industry Assistance. That is a body of senior government officials from the departments dealing with industry matters. A recommendation on that report is prepared for the consideration of the Minister who has responsibility for industry matters, in this case the Minister for Trade and Resources. 
The subject will be exhaustively considered as a matter of urgency over the course of the next three or four weeks. As soon as the Minister for National Resources and I have prepared a submission for Cabinet it will become then a matter for the consideration of the Cabinet. I give the honourable member an assurance that the matter will be dealt with expeditiously and that all the relevant representations that have been received by the IAC and that have been made by honourable members to the  Deputy  Prime Minister and me will be very carefully considered by the Government before any final decision is taken. 
For the information of honourable members I present the Industries Assistance Commission's report on rural income fluctuations. 
Pursuant to section 35A of the Prices Justification Act 1973 I present the report of the Prices Justification Tribunal for the six months ended 3 1 December 1 977. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Search teams, as such, are not maintained at Port Kembla. Where, in accordance with assessed priorities, intelligence suggests an increase in activity, be it searching or patrolling, additional resources are deployed from Sydney. 
In the evidence submitted, the Department outlined the areas of its functional responsibility, including intelligence surveillance, employed in combating the illegal drug traffic into Australia namely- 
Narcotics Bureau 
Prevention Operations Group 
Coastal Air &amp; Sea Operations Support Group 
Central Intelligence &amp; Information Bureau 
Automatic Data Processing Branch 
No. 
1696. 
539. 
No, detector dogs also operate at the mail exchange, on the waterfront (including vessels) in freight sheds, container terminals and other places. 
Apart from a limited trial with Sydney KingsfordSmith air cargo which has now finished, the only formal preclearance arrangement is for certain New Zealand goods. During 1 977 the number of lines of cargo making use of this facility totalled thirty-one thousand two hundred and fortyeight. 
Experienced officers check documentation for New Zealand goods covered by the scheme for community protection aspects which include prohibited imports. There is also a system of programmed physical checks for imported cargo generally. 
No, release of cargo whether pre-cleared or otherwise is a clerical function. Additionally, importers must obtain permission to participate in the pre-clearance scheme and a requirement for them is to enter and pay duty on goods within seven days of arrival. Failure to observe requirements may result in the permission being withdrawn. Post-audit systems are in operation in the three Australian ports through which the scheme operates to ensure that the correct entry documentation is produced. 
Preventive officers are involved in the use of Defence Vehicles from time to time in pursuing specific Customs alert situations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(1)- 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(i) Head office-10 full-time attendants, (ii) Other- 1 full-time attendant- 10 part-time attendants. 
(i) $1 14,309.48. (ii) Other than salaries, there are no significant direct expenditures associated with tea and coffee making. There are some small administrative costs but these are not readily identifiable. 
Statutory Rural Marketing Authorities : Interest Charged on Advances  (Question No. 531) 
I present the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on the following subject: 
Metal working machine tools. 
I move: 
Customs Tariffproposals numbers 13 and 14 ( 1978). 
The Customs Tariffproposals I have just tabled relate to proposed alterations to the Customs Tariff Act 1966. Proposals No. 13 provides for tariff changes arising from the Government's decision on recommendations by the Industries Assistance Commission in its report on metal working machine tools. The effect of the decision is that power operated metal working machine tools at present subject to a general tariff rate of 26 per cent and eligible for bounty will become free of duty over a three-year period. In the first year they will be dutiable at 26 per cent general and 19 per cent preferential; in the second year at 20 per cent general and 19 per cent preferential; and in the third year at 10 per cent general and 10 per cent preferential. Other power operated metal working machine tools and parts for use as original equipment in the assembly or manufacture of power operated metal working machine tools will be free of duty from tomorrow. 
The Government has also decided that from tomorrow a bounty is to be paid on certain power operated metal working machine tools produced and used in Australia and that a bounty on local design content be introduced. Legislation to give effect to this decision is being drafted and I will introduce it in the Budget sittings. Changes of an administrative nature are also contained in the Proposals. 
Proposals No. 14 provides for the reduction in duty from 1 January 1 978 on a further group of commodities added to Schedule 'A' of the New Zealand Australia Free Trade Agreement. A comprehensive- summary of the changes contained in the Proposals has been prepared and is now being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Proposals to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill provides for the validation until 31 December 1978 of duties collected in pursuance of Customs Tariff Proposals Nos 13 and 14 (1978) introduced into the Parliament on 24 May and not covered by Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978 now before the Parliament. Under section 226 of the Customs Act the Collection of duties in pursuance of Customs Tariff Proposals is protected against legal challenge for six months or until the close of the session of Parliament, whichever occurs first. The introduction and passage of a validation Bill is therefore a necessary machinery measure which takes over from section 226 pending the introduction of a Customs Tariff Amendment Bill, anticipated for the Budget sittings, to enact the changes contained in the Proposals. 
The tariff changes validated by this Bill relate to the report by the Industries Assistance Commission on metal working machine tools and additions to Schedule A of the New ZealandAustralia Free Trade Agreement. Full details of the changes concerned were supplied to honourable members at the time the relevant tariffproposals were introduced. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I am grateful to the honourable member for Lyne for raising this question. I and the Government regard the positions of commissioners on the Industries Assistance Commission as being of the utmost importance. It is because of this that the decision was taken on this occasion to advertise the positions that will become available in the next few months. I took the view- I have the support of the Government in this regard- that the best available people should be obtained for these positions. The honourable member asked whether the current commissioners would be eligible for consideration if they apply for the positions. The answer is, of course, yes. Those commissioners whose terms are about to expire can apply in the ordinary way. The alternative for me as Minister would have been to give consideration to those people who I considered might be suitable for reappointment or to fill vacancies and simply to make recommendations, as the responsible Minister, to the Government. I believe that the positions are far too important for that process to be followed. For that reason the advertisements have been placed in newspapers throughout Australia. 
The honourable member referred to what he described as the short period of time for interested people to apply for the jobs. I am advised that a large number of people have already applied so that would indicate that the time available has been sufficient. I am not aware of the precise nature of the information that has been conveyed to existing commissioners but I understand that the  Chairman  of the Commission would have indicated to the retiring commissioners that they are eligible for consideration. I have arranged for a three-man committee to be established upon which the  Chairman  of the Industries Assistance Commission will sit. The members of that committee will have the responsibility of interviewing the applicants and recommending to me a short list which I will ultimately take to Cabinet. I give an assurance that this matter will be dealt with extremely carefully, firstly by the committee, then by me and ultimately by the Cabinet. The intention and desire of the Government are to ensure that those commissioners who are appointed to the IAC will be the best people available in Australia to fill those positions and that they will bring to the Commission a wide range of experience. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Industries Assistance Commission on the music recording industry in Australia. 
in reply- I am bound to say that a great deal of what has been said in this debate is not directly related to the measure before the House. At the same time, it was not unexpected that honourable members would want to focus on the tariff aspect of the Government 's overall industry policy. I stress the words the Government's overall industry policy' because to listen to the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  and the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins)  one would assume that the Government does not have an overall industry policy. Of course it has. That policy is working, it is continually under review and it is being fine tuned from time to time to suit the requirements both in the short term and the long term. 
There are two matters to which I wish to reply. As I have indicated, I was not surprised to hear the Opposition particularly focus on the tariff aspect of the Government's industry policy. I must say that I was somewhat staggered to hear the honourable member for Adelaide refer to the 25 per cent tariff cut for which the Opposition has become infamous in the industrial field, both from the point of view of employers and employees. I was staggered to hear him admit that this 25 per cent tariff cut was brought in largely because of 'over-full' employment. They are his words. I wrote them down as he said them. Although he is not the first member of the Opposition to make this admission, to my recollection he is the first member of the Opposition to make this admission in the House, certainly since I have been a member of this Parliament. The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  on television just prior to the last Federal election also made a similar comment and admitted that the 25 per cent tariff cut was imposed because of over-full employment. 
It is really stretching the long bow for the honourable member for Adelaide to say that the tariff cut was recommended by a group of very senior government officials. It is true that the 25 per cent tariff cut was part of a report prepared by officials. However, the report was prepared at the invitation of the then Prime Minister who asked what action could be taken to increase the flow of imports into Australia. In other words, he asked this group of senior government officials to advise on ways and means of reducing job opportunities in Australia. It is a matter of public record that those recommendations from that point of view were quite successful. They were adopted very speedily, probably without reference to the whole Cabinet. The result of the tariff cut was the loss of hundreds of thousands of job opportunities in this country. 
The other point to which I wish to respond was the reference made by both the honourable member for Adelaide and the honourable member for Fremantle to an article which appeared in the  National Times  for the week ending 2 June 1978. The article is headed 'Fraser Prepares the Way for Stacking the IAC. This matter was the subject of a question addressed to me at Question Time today. I want to expand on the answer I gave to that question. The fact is that with the exception of the  Chairman  of the Industries Assistance Commission, the terms of all other members of the Commission will expire within the next several months and it will be necessary to reappoint the existing members or to appoint alternative members. I believe that this is a most important responsibility of government. As Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs I certainly regard it as an important responsibility on which to advise the Government. I take full responsibility for publicly advertising those positions. I take full responsibility, notwithstanding that I have the complete support of the Government in advertising those positions. I believe that those positions should be filled by the best available people in the Commonwealth. I do not propose to interview these people personally or to come to a quick decision as to who should fill the posts of commissioners of the IAC. 
As I indicated at Question Time today I have appointed a small committee to review applications received from either existing commissioners or other people who have an interest in serving in this way. The committee consists of  Mr Bill  McKinnon, the  Chairman  of the IAC;  Mr A.  Hartnell,  Deputy  Secretary of the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs; and  Mr John  Dahlson, a solicitor from Melbourne who has a long and distinguished association with Australian commerce and industry. I am looking to those three gentlemen to advise me prior to my recommendations to the Government on the filling of these positions. I also want to make special reference to a quote in the third column of the article in the  National Times  which purports to be a direct quote of something alleged to have been said by  Mr McKinnon,  the  Chairman  of the IAC. He is reported as having said: 
I can't throw any light. I had no knowledge that they were going to press. 
I discussed this report with the  Chairman,  and I am advised that that is not what he said. He was in fact aware that these positions would be advertised and he was, of course, aware that he would be a member of this three-man committee. In summary,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I want to assure you and the House that the IAC remains, and will continue to remain, an independent advisory body to the Government. For it to function efficiently and effectively it must remain an independent advisory body, and while I am Minister and while this Government is in office we will ensure that its independence is maintained. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The Industries Assistance Commission is a very important and valuable advisory body and this Government, like its predecessor, looks to the Industries Assistance Commission for advice and recommendations on a wide range of industry and related matters. I am indebted to the honourable member for Eden-Monaro for his interest in the Commission and particularly his interest in the appointment of commissioners which will take place in the near future. As I indicated at Question Time yesterday, and also in a later debate during the day, I have appointed a committee to confer with and to examine closely the applicants for the positions of commissioner. I indicated to the House yesterday- and I repeat it today for the recordthat the committee consists of three persons. 
There will be  Mr McKinnon,  the  Chairman  of the Industries Assistance Commission,  Mr Hartnell,  a  Deputy  Secretary of the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs, and  Mr Dahlson,  a solicitor from Melbourne.  Mr McKinnon  has had wide experience in industries assistance matters as  Chairman  of the Commission.  Mr Hartnell,  as  Deputy  Secretary of the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs, has the responsibility within the Department for industries assistance matters.  Mr Dahlson  is a widely respected solicitor in the business community of Melbourne. I want to reiterate one point I made yesterday in relation to the responsibilities of this committee. It will be the Cabinet that will make the appointments. Cabinet has the responsibility for these appointments and will act on the recommendations that I ultimately will take to it. However, because of the importance of the Industries Assistance Commission and the need for that body to remain and to be seen to be an independent body, I felt that it was important and necessary for a group of experienced people to look at the applications, to interview the applicants and to recommend to me a short list for my consideration and ultimate recommendation to Cabinet. This is in the long-term interests of the Commission and, as I also indicated yesterday, it is open to retiring commissioners as well as to people - 
Yesterday I released the findings of two sub-committees from the conference to which the honourable member for Franklin referred. Honourable members will recall that towards the end of last year the Prime Minister announced that after the election a conference of all sections of the oil industry would be called to discuss certain disagreements, particularly in relation to alleged price discrimination within the industry. That conference was convened by me late in December and, indeed, three sessions were held, the last one just recently. 
The conference established two subcommittees to consider the various aspects of the matters raised, and I am able to report to the 
Parliament that a degree of acceptance and unanimity was reached in relation to some of the matters that were discussed. Unfortunately on some of the basic questions agreement was not reached. Therefore it will be necessary for me now to report to the Government in relation to the outcome of the conference, and it will be a matter for government decision, not a decision by me personally, as to what action, if any, should be taken as a result of the findings and the deliberations of that conference. In response to the last part of the honourable member's question, I am aware of the inquiry being conducted by the Tasmanian Government into the retail price of petrol in that State. No doubt the inquiry has been prompted because retail margins in that State appear to be higher than those in other parts of Australia. I think it is significant that the Tasmanian Government has moved in this area to carry out this investigation. 
I advise the House that in January of this year the Prime Minister wrote to all State Premiers indicating this Government's decision to subsidise the freight component of petrol prices to a point where the freight component in any part of Australia would not be more than 8c a gallon. The Prime Minister indicated to the Premiers that the Commonwealth would need the co-operation of the States to pass on this benefit to the motoring public throughout Australia. It is a matter of record, of course, that the legislation has passed through this House. Indeed, the subsidy scheme was introduced into the Northern Territory on 19 May. As a result of Queensland, Victoria and Western Australia passing complementary legislation, the subsidy scheme commenced in those States yesterday. The New South Wales Government has indicated to the Commonwealth that it is prepared to meet the cost of the scheme from its own resources, until such time as it is in a position to pass complementary legislation. As a result of an agreement between the Commonwealth and the State of New South Wales, the subsidy scheme will commence in New South Wales on 15 June. The Tasmanian Government has also indicated that it is prepared to enter into a similar arrangement. 
Despite the fact that I got in touch with the South Australian Government a few days ago, offering to enter into an arrangement similar to that which has been entered into with New South Wales and which will be entered into with Tasmania, I still have not received a response from the South Australian Government. I take this opportunity to re-issue the invitation to the South Australian Government to meet the cost of the scheme from its own resources until such time as it is prepared and is able to pass legislation complementary to that of the Commonwealth. The Commonwealth stands ready to enter into such an arrangement with South Australia so that the motoring public in South Australia will not be disadvantaged any longer than is absolutely necessary. It is a very significant subsidy. Even the honourable member for Grey ought to have an interest in this matter because his constituents at Coober Pedy will benefit to the extent of 2.8c per litre, and that is a very significant contribution. In Gosse, which is situated in the electorate of the honourable member for Barker, the benefit will be 1.2c per litre. I repeat: I re-issue the invitation to South Australia to co-operate with the Commonwealth so as to enable the South Australian motoring public to benefit in the same way as the motoring public in the rest of Australia is benefiting. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report which will be of great significance and interest to honourable members. It is the interim report of the Industries Assistance Commission on vices. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Australian delegation to the 61st Session of the International Labour Conference held in Geneva in June 1976. Appended to the report are the texts of the following instruments adopted by the 61st Session of the conference: Convention Number 144- Tripartite Consultations (International Labour Standards), 1976; Recommendation Number 152- Tripartite Consultations (Activities of the International Labour Organisation), 1976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Not applicable. 
My Department became aware of the statement immediately after its release. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1)1 refer the honourable member to the statement made by my predecessor to the House on 17 March 1977 when he informed the House of the details of the agreement reached between Commonwealth and State Ministers responsible for corporate affairs matters at their meeting in Canberra on Friday 1 1 March 1977. At that meeting Ministers agreed to recommend to their respective governments adoption of a general framework for a co-operative Commonwealth/State scheme for legislation and administration in the field of company law and securities industry regulation. Since that time, we have been continuing our negotiations with the States on various aspects of the co-operative scheme and, in particular, on the text of a draft Formal Agreement which will set out the essential terms of the agreement between the Commonwealth and the States. It is hoped that a final draft of this Formal Agreement will be available for discussion at the next meeting of Commonwealth and State Ministers, to be held 13-15 May 1978. 
and (3) There is, at this stage, no firm date for the introduction into this Parliament of the Commonwealth legislation that will be required to give effect to the Commonwealth 's legislative obligations and the scheme. In addition to the Commonwealth legislation, each State will enact legislation ensuring that the Commonwealth legislation has full force and effect in that State. Because of the numerous complex matters that require resolution and because of the large amount of drafting work that will be involved, it has not yet been possible for Ministers to work out a firm date for the commencement of the co-operative scheme. However, all Ministers are agreed that the scheme should operate from the earliest practicable date. 
and (5) The substantive companies and securities legislation that will be introduced into the Commonwealth Parliament will be based on the Companies Acts and Securities Industry Acts at present in force in New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria and Western Australia. In addition, the legislation will contain any amendments to these Acts that have been agreed to by Commonwealth and State Ministers. At their next meeting Commonwealth and State Ministers hope to be able to decide which amendments should be included in the initial legislation and which proposals should be deferred for further consideration after the commencement of the co-operative scheme. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
I have been advised that no complaints have been received by my Department, the Trade Practices Commission or State consumer protection authorities concerning attempted chart rigging by Australian record companies or by anyone else. I am also advised that preliminary investigations by the Commission have revealed that there is no evidence of any similar chart rigging by Australian record companies. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No formal complaints have been received by the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs about the alleged dumping of New Zealand peas and beans. 
However, there is a long history of co-operation and consultation between Australia and New Zealand on trade in these commodities involving the industries as well as governments, and there has been consultation concerning recent trends in imports from New Zealand. 
The Joint Pea and Bean Panel was established to enable the respective industries to consult on such matters. This Panel falls within the responsibility of the Minister for Trade and Resources. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government has decided to publish the names and addresses of all import quota holders every six months. 
The lists of import licence holders in respect of footwear were published in the Commonwealth of Australia  Gazette  on 28 April 1978. 
The question of whether or not individual entitlements should be published is still under examination as it raises the aspect of commercial confidentiality. This aspect will be closely examined by my Department and a decision will be made as soon as possible. 
The views of all interested parties, both organisations and individual companies, on any aspect of quota administration are given full consideration. 
Customs Procedures relating to Air Crews: Narcotics (Question No. 889) 
The answers to the honourable members 's questions are as follows: 
1 ) Yes. They are cleared separately from general passengers. Apart from that distinction they are cleared in much the same manner. They complete an individual declaration (Form B 465) whereas passengers complete an individual statement (Form G 137). Their baggage is selected either by random or intuitive means for examination. 
Nil for both years. 
Not relevant in view of the answer to (2). 
I am not aware of any agreement. 
Narcotics: Detection at Airports (Question No. 890) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of persons apprehended by Customs Officers (as a result of a personal and/or baggage search) for trying to import narcotics into Australia at the listed airports during the years 1 976 and 1 977 is as follows: 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The Government presently has the Industries Assistance Commission's (IAC) final report on the ball bearing industry under consideration. The report was received by the Government on 2 May 1978. The ball bearing industry was referred to the Tariff Board on 6 November 1972 as part of the miscellaneous industrial machinery reference. The IAC issued a separate Draft report on the ball and roller bearing industry in September 1977 and supplementary public hearings for industry comment were held on 25 October 1977. 
Prior to the present report there had been two reports on short term assistance for the industry. The sector producing precision ground steel ball bearings received temporary additional assistance for one year from 1 March 1975, following a Temporary Assistance Authority report. The temporary additional assistance was removed by the Government after the IAC had reported on short term assistance, as required by the IAC Act (prior to the 1 978 amendments ). 
It is interesting to receive a question about unemployment from a member of the Opposition- a member of the Party which, when in government, created the worst unemployment in Australia since the great Depression. 
-Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I submit that there is relevance between the fact that unemployment exists and how people who are unemployed are to be put back into the work force or how they are to be treated between now and when they are put back into the work force. If unemployment did not exist at the level that exists today, the honourable member for Robertson would not be asking this question. It is well known to honourable members and, indeed, to the people of Australia that it was the Labor Government which when in office took policy decisions that created the unemployment levels that exist today. This Government, in the relatively short period that it has been in office, has taken decisions in the economic areas and in the business areas to recreate jobs and to create a climate conducive to employment. It ill becomes the honourable member for Robertson and any other Opposition member to ask a question of this nature when, I submit, they are the guilty men. 
I want to emphasise while I am on my feet that the Goverment is extremely concerned about the level of unemployment and it is taking positive steps in this area to recreate the conditions in the community generally and the confidence in the business community that will lift the level of employment. Further evidence of our efforts in this field will be given when the Treasurer presents his Budget in August of this year. Each Budget - 
-I will,  Mr Speaker.  Each Budget that has been introduced by this Government has been designed to lift the level of confidence in the business world and to make it possible for employers to soak up the unemployment created by our political opponents. 
Pursuant to section 16 of the Stevedoring Industry Acts (Termination) Act 1977 I present the report of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority for the period from 1 July 1977 to 26 February 1978. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Australian Survey Office for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The amounts expended on travel and subsistence excluding car hire in 1976-77 are set out below. For comparison, figures are also shown for the two full financial years of the previous Government, i.e. 1973-74 and 1974-75: 
Overseas 1973-74 $23,855, 1974-75 $47,884, 1976-77 $26,474. 
Domestic 1973-74$1,070,812, 1974-75 $1,029,341, 1976-77 $947,066. 
The percentages of the Department's expenditure on travel and subsistence, excluding car hire, were: 
Overseas 1 973-74 2.2 per cent, 1 974-75 4.5 per cent, 1976-77 2.7 percent. 
Domestic 1973-74 97.8 percent, 1974-75 95.5 per cent 1976^77 97.3 percent. 
Yes. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. All Customs posts are staffed at levels considered adequate to cope with normal on-going functions, and when pressures of an ad hoc nature arise in a particular area they are met by redeployment of staff from other areas. 
There is no 'Customs Special Services Enforcement Section', but if it is intended to mean Preventive staff then the establishment is  864 positions. 
No, but 55 new positions have been sought for the Narcotics Bureau. 
Actual Preventive staff employed is 829. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Vegetable oils are not subject to tariff quotas. 
The Australian Statistician has provided the attached table which shows statistics of imports, cleared for home consumption, of vegetable oils suitable for years 1974-75, 1975-76 and 1976-77. No details are available on imports of the various types of oils constituting the category 'wholly or partly hydrogenated vegetable oils' in the table. The Australian Bureau of Statistics does not record the names of importers. 
The Department of Industry and Commerce has advised that there are no official statistical data available on the percentage of imported vegetable oils used in the production of table margarine in Australia. However, industry sources have estimated that 80-85 per cent of the total quantity of vegetable oils currently used in table margarine production in Australia would be locally produced oils. It should be noted that the percentage of imported vegetable oils used in the production of table margarine can vary between seasons as the level of local production of vegetable oils depends on the availability of oilseeds supplies which are affected by climatic conditions. 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">IMPORTS CLEARED FOR HOME CONSUMPTION OF VEGETABLE OILS SUITABLE FOR THE PRODUCTION OF TABLE MARGARINE- 1974-75 TO 1976-77 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes; yes. 
My Depanment advised the Administrative Review Council, on 5 April 1978, that the Trade Practices Tribunal was then the only tribunal established under legislation administered by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs which reviewed administrative decisions. As responsibility for certain matters relating to that tribunal was at that time vested in the Attorney-General, my Depanment supplied such of the information requested as was available to it and suggested that the balance be sought from the Attorney-General's Depanment. Appendix III of the First Annual Report of the Administrative Review Council set out certain information in relation to the Trade Practices Tribunal under the heading 'Attorney-General 's Depanment '. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Prices Justification Tribunal examines country freight differentials whenever oil companies seek increases in the levels of the differentials. In the past this has taken place at intervals of approximately 2 years. 
Yes, the Tribunal would consider any submissions which may be relevant to its examinations. 
In assessing whether the freight differential sought by a company for the supply of petroleum products to a particular location is justified, the Tribunal considers, among other matters, the actual costs incurred by that company in supplying that location and also the costs incurred by other companies supplying the same location. 
Yes. 
and (6) It is not the function of the Tribunal to determine which form of transport is used but to examine the unavoidable costs which have been incurred for the purpose of determining the justifiable price. 
All claims submitted to the Department must provide details of individual sales. Through the use of accepted audit techniques, subsidy claims are checked at oil companies and country agencies. If necessary, sales are then verified at the customer level. 
8 ) Penalties are as prescribed in the complementary State and Northern Territory legislation. 
-The answer to several parts of the honourable member's question, particularly those relating to bail are not available without detailed and lengthy research of the drug prosecution files. Under the circumstances I do not consider it appropriate to divert limited staff resources within the Federal Bureau of Narcotics from other important operational tasks to undertake this research. In all instances where persons are charged under the Customs Act with serious drug offences, officers from the Crown Solicitors Office are instructed to oppose bail strenuously. Answers to specific parts of the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
In 1977 the Department prosecuted 301 persons for breaches of Section 233b of the Customs Act (drug offences). 
(a) 145, (b) 156, (c) Statistics not available without detailed research. 
Section 233b of the Customs Act does not provide for specific offences of trading or supplying. However the Customs Act does provide a schedule of traffickable quantities and persons charged with offences (under Section 233b) involving quantities in excess of traffickable quantities are liable to a higher penalty. Accordingly they are dealt with by way of indictment (see Answer (2) (b)). 
to (12) Statistics not available without detailed research. 
11. 
5. 
(a)8,(b)4,(c)4. 
4. 
3. 
3. 
Statistics not available without detailed research. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Of the 11 sightings 10 remain unexplained- the extent of the information reported and developed and the time lapse in reporting did not enable further investigation. One sighting has been checked and established as not involving illicit activity. 

-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
325. 
538,917. 
-The answers to the honourable member's question are as follows: 
1 ) It would be a major task for information relating to footwear quota holders to be supplied going back to 1975. However, on 28 April 1978 the names and addresses of all quota holders were published in Commonwealth of Australia Gazette No. P2. For those footwear commodities which were subject to quota control in 1975 the basis for quota allocation was imports of like goods entered for home consumption in the period 1 July 1 972-30 June 1 974. 
For the quota period which commenced on 1 January 1 978 the same base period for establishing quota entitlement applies and therefore the list of quota holders published in the Gazette could be regarded as substantially the same as 1975. Some transfers have taken place under the transferability arrangement but these have been relatively few. 
The actual quantity of quota held by individual companies is not published at this stage. This applies to the whole range of goods currently subject to quota control and not just footwear. However, in a Media Release on 14 April 1978, I announced a review of the administration of quotas and this aspect is one which will be considered during that review. A decision will be made on this matter as soon as possible. 
As there has been no decision to publish quantities held by individual companies it is not appropriate to answer this question at this time other than to advise that quotas have been allocated equitably to all companies which imported like goods in the base period and /or to those companies which have obtained a transfer of quota under the transferability arrangements. 
) Yes. On the second point of the question, on 1 7 August 1 977 my colleague the Minister for Industry and Commerce.  Senator Robert  Cotton and myself announced in Statements in the Parliament, the Government's decision on the interim report by the Industries Assistance Commission on Textiles. Clothing and Footwear: Review of Quotas. These Statements included mention of the provision of 1 5 per cent of the supplementary quota level for cases involving anomalies. The Statements mentioned that provision would be made within this quota reserve, for local firms which had invested in off-shore production facilities prior to the introduction of quotas with the objective of placing a substantial part of the output from those facilities on the Australian market. Quotas for most footwear items were introduced on I October 1974. 
No separate publication is being made of allocations under the anomalies reserve. The names and addresses of all quota holders are being published every six months. As indicated in my answer to question ( 1 ) quantities allocated have not been published at this stage. 
Applications for allocation of quota from the anomalies reserve are considered by the Textile, Clothing and Footwear Special Quotas Advisory Committee headed by an independent  Chairman, Mr K.  M. Archer. C.B.E. Each case is considered by the Committee on its individual merits and allocations of quota from the anomalies reserve have been made in accordance with the advice received from the Committee. 
No publication has been made of the types of anomaly involved in successful applications as publication would, no doubt, result in future applications submitting applications tailor-made to conform with these criteria. 
On part (c) of this question a number of existing quota holders who hold quota because of previous import performance have also been allocated quota from the anomalies reserve as they were regarded as having an anomaly which justified allocation from the reserve. Allocations from the anomalies reserve are not necessarily restricted to those parties who do not possess quota and the fact that a company is a quota holder and the amount  of quota  held are taken into consideration by the Committee. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See(2). 
In considering by-law admission of tomatoes or tomato products the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs would apply the conditions as recommended by the Industries Assistance Commission in its Report on Tomatoes; Tomato Paste et cetera of 13 November 1974, namely: when a local production shortfall occurs, canners and food manufacturers are permitted to import tomatoes and certain tomato products under by-law, provided that the landed cost of imports under by-law is equated with an established local price; this is achieved by the duty free admission of that portion of each shipment (the balance being subject to the full substantive duty) as is necessary to arrive at a composite landed into store cost over the whole importation equal to the established local price; and if by-law is granted; conditions to prevent stockpiling of the goods are imposed. 
In establishing eligibility for by-law admission on a shortfall basis, details of local production would of course be taken into consideration and would be necessary before any Determination could be made. At this time, no requests for by-law admission of these goods are held by the Department and therefore no recent investigation into the local supply situation has been necessary. 
I move: 
Excise Tariffproposals No. 2 (1978) and Customs Tariff Proposals No. 20(1978). 
Excise Tariffproposals No. 2 and Customs Tariff Proposals No. 20, which I have just tabled, introduce certain tariff changes foreshadowed by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in his Budget Speech this evening. The proposals increase the duties of excise and customs on beer, spirits and manufactured tobacco products. The increases operate from 8 o'clock this evening. A summary of these alterations is being circulated to honourable members. I commend the proposals to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Klugman)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1978 now before the House proposes amendments to the Customs Tariff Act 1966. The Bill introduces tariff changes foreshadowed by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in his Budget Speech this evening in relation to the imposition of a special additional duty of 12.5 per cent on imports of certain finished goods on which an important ceiling is imposed through tariff quota arrangements or import licensing restrictions. The additional duty does not apply to goods the produce or manufacture of New Zealand. A summary of the commodities to which this levy  applies has been prepared and I seek leave to have the summary incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The summary read as follows- 


<graphic href="110131197808155_283_93.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="110131197808155_283_94.jpg"></graphic>

The Bill provides that the additional duty will apply from tomorrow. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Klugman)  adjourned. 
I move: 
Excise Tariffproposals No. 3 ( 1978). 
Excise Tariff Proposals No. 3 (1978) which I have just tabled introduce the excise tariff alteration relating to indigenous crude oil foreshadowed by my colleague the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in his Budget Speech earlier this evening. The proposals, which will operate from tomorrow, 16 August, increase the excise duty on crude oil by $45.63 per kilolitre. This increase forms one part of the legislative arrangement designed to effect the Government's decision that all Australian-produced crude oil should be priced to refineries at import parity levels. 
The other part of this legislation arrangement is the Excise Amendment Bill (1978) which I will introduce immediately after these Excise Tariff Proposals. That Bill will amend the Excise Act 1 90 1 to provide for variable rebates of the excise duty rate for certain categories of crude oil. The conjoint effects of these proposals and of the Excise Bill will be to achieve the net rate of excise duty required to bring up to import parity prices all indigenous crude oil presently priced below import parity level. I commend the proposals. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide for the allowing of rebates of the excise duty payable on certain categories of indigenous crude oil. The Bill, in conjunction with Excise Tariffproposals No. 3 ( 1978), constitutes the legislation required to bring into effect the Government's decision, announced in the Budget Speech, that all indigenous crude oil is to be priced at import parity levels. As stated in the Budget Speech, this objective is to be achieved by increasing the present excise duty, that is the levy, on 'non-parity ' oil by an amount which will bring the price of that oil to import parity levels. 
The rate of excise duty required to raise the current price of Bass Strait 'non-parity' oil to import parity level is $64.53 per kilolitre- about $ 10.26 per barrel- and this is the basic proposed new excise duty rate for stabilised crude petroleum oil for the period ending 31 December 1978. However, Bass Strait oil currently priced at import parity, although liable to the higher rate of excise duty, will be allowed, in accordance with the provisions of this Bill, a rebate of duty of $45.63 per kilolitre to ensure that the net duty payable will remain at $18.90 per kilolitreabout $3 per barrel. 
Similarly, the quantity of Barrow Island oil which is currently priced at import parity and the total production of Moonie and other smaller fields- currently at import parity price- will be allowed the same rebate to provide an effective excise duty of $18.90 per kilolitre. The quantity of Barrow Island oil currently at 'non-parity' price will be liable to an effective duty rate of $61.39 per kilolitre-about $9.76 per barrel-to bring its price to import parity level. To achieve this the Bill provides for a rebate of $3.14 per kilolitre from the excise duty liability of $64.53 per kilolitre. 
The Bill requires that the Minister for National Development shall, from time to time, determine prices for crude oil to take account of changes in the import parity price and so enable appropriate rates of duties and rebates to be calculated in terms of the relevant provisions. It also allows for the making of regulations related to the administration of the scheme of rebates. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
In answer to the question asked by the honourable member for Mallee, I would remind the House that the first stage of the Government's policy in relation to the fuel freight subsidy scheme applied throughout Australia as from 1 July this year. It is important to keep in mind that some States were in a position to pass on this very beneficial subsidy to the consumers within their States well before 1 July. On a national basis it has applied since 1 July this year. It will be recalled also that the Government indicated that the full scheme would be implemented during the life of the present Parliament. No decision has been taken as to when the second stage will be introduced but I want to assure the honourable member for Mallee and other honourable members that the matter will be kept under review and will be implemented as soon as possible. 
The scheme provides for a subsidy on the freight component of petroleum products. So far as petrol is concerned, the freight component of its cost throughout Australia will not be more than 4c per gallon as from now. This is a very beneficial subsidy scheme. People living or travelling in remote areas are benefiting from the scheme now. 
I am aware of the disparity in fuel prices throughout Australia referred to by the honourable member for Franklin. The honourable member and other members of this House will be aware that early this year, as a result of an undertaking given by the Prime Minister prior to the last election, I convened an oil industry conference which was attended by a large number of people from all sections of the oil industry, and particularly by service station proprietors who have been hard hit in recent times by marketing conditions within the industry. The conference met in three sessions and as a result reports were prepared indicating areas where agreement had been reached between the parties and also areas where agreement had not been reached. The reports of the conference are now public documents. The position that was arrived at by that conference is being considered by the Government. I have prepared a detailed submission on all the representations that were made and discussions that took place at that conference. I hope that within the very near future it will be possible for Cabinet to give consideration to that document and to my recommendations, following which of course Government decisions will be announced. 
For the information of honourable members I present the reports of the Industries Assistance Commission on ball and roller bearings; wheat stabilisation; brassieres: rate or rates of duty outside quota; domestic refrigerators appliances, et cetera; copper ores and concentrates; light commercial and four-wheel drive vehicles and heavier commercial vehicles and components; and an interim report on hoists, pulleys, tackles and winches. Also, pursuant to section 30 of the Industries Assistance Commission Act 1973, I present two reports of the Temporary Assistance Authority on insulators and on hoop, strip, sheets and plates of iron or steel. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to extend the operation of the nitrogenous fertilisers subsidy scheme for a further year until 3 1 December 1979, but at a rate of subsidy reduced from $60 per tonne of nitrogen content to $40 per tonne of such content. Following consideration of the Industries Assistance Commission's recommendation in report No. 58 dated 5 September 1975, the Government decided that the subsidy on this fertiliser was to be phased out. The measures effected by the Bill represent a further step in the implementation of this decision. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in the Budget Speech mentioned various government initiatives in support of rural industry, including the provision of an amount of $ 10m for continuation of this subsidy for a further year. The level of subsidy to apply after 3 1 December 1979 will be considered by the Government in the light of economic circumstances prevailing nearer to that time. The Bill proposes that from 1 January 1 979 to 31 December 1979 subsidy will be payable at the reduced rate in respect of locally produced nitrogenous fertilisers which are sold for use in Australia as fertiliser and also in respect of imported nitrogenous fertilisers which are either used in Australia as a fertiliser by the importer or sold by the importer for such use in Australia. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
I move: 
I seek leave of the House to move a motion to discharge certain customs tariff proposals which were moved earlier in the year and which constitute part of Order of the Day No. 44. These Proposals were incorporated in the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978 and the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill 1978 which have now been assented to. 
Leave granted. 
Motion (by  Mr Fife)  agreed to: 
That the following tariff proposals, constituting part of Order of the Day No. 44, Government Business, be discharged: Customs Tariffproposals Nos 1 to 12 (1978) and Excise Tariffproposals No. 1 (1978). 
in reply-  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I did not want to disappoint the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson).  As a matter of fact, I could not hear him clearly over here. I thought he said that he was about to resign. I thought that was to be his greatest contribution. The honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Peter Johnson)  has really answered the only points that need to be referred to by the Government in reply to comments made by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  and the honourable member for Burke. But just to restate the position and to emphasise what the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  said last night in this Budget Speech, the special additional customs duty which this measure provides is purely a revenue measure. It is not intended to provide additional assistance to industry. This point was made by the Treasurer last evening and I emphasise it now. If tariff quotas or import licensing on the goods in question were to be removed, the special additional duty would also be removed. The measure is intended to divert to the community, through the tax system, part of the additional profits which accrue to import entitlement holders. As I have said, it is not intended to raise the level of protection; nor is it intended to add cost to the consumer. 
In relation to the Industries Assistance Commission, the honourable member for Adelaide raised the question of the validity of this measure. I want to emphasise that insofar as assistance to industry is concerned, the Government remains committed to its platform that assistance to industry will not be varied without a prior IAC or Temporary Assistance Authority report. The Opposition has moved an amendment designed to delay this measure. The basis for the Opposition's amendment is its claim that it has not had time to study the measure. The measure is not substantial in volume; it is a measure that has been available overnight to the Opposition and as I have indicated, the Treasurer made clear last night what was proposed and what the intention is. The Government of course, does not support the amendment. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Hurford's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Nil. The Government decided early in 1977 that all Commonwealth employee food services would be operated by Commonwealth Hostels Limited. Handover of these services to the company was completed on 26 June 1977. However, in 1976-77 the cafeterias listed in (4) were operated by my Department. 
Commonwealth employee food services are required to operate on a self-supporting financial basis, within the division of costs prescribed in Treasury (Finance) Directions, Section 8. 
(3)- 
For the information of honourable members I present a report of the Industries Assistance Commission on brooms and brushes. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Bounty (Books) Amendment Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2)1 have not established or continued any advisory or consultative committees which include members of parliament. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (3 ) As the honourable member is well aware, Commonwealth and State Ministers responsible for Corporate Affairs announced on 14 May, that they had reached final agreement on a national scheme of legislation and administration for company law and the regulation of the securities industry. The legislation under that scheme will be based on the uniform laws in force in New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria and Western Australia. 
To facilitate introduction of the national scheme, a draft Ordinance has been prepared to insert in the Australian Capital Territory Companies Ordinance provisions along the lines of the 'defaulting officer' provisions that are currently included in the Companies Acts of New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria and Western Australia. In accordance with normal practice, the draft Ordinance will be forwarded to the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly for comment before it is made. 
Department of Transport: Transfer of officers to Canberra  (Question No.  1190) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
From information compiled by the Australian Bureau of Statistics, 103.6 million pairs of various types of footwear, having a total value of SA2218 million, were imported into Australia during the period 1 October 1974, the date on which import control was introduced, to 28 February 1 978. 
Quotas are allocated for a six-month quota period with the current period ending 31 December 1978. It is Government policy for import licences issued against those quotas to have a twelve-month validity period. For quota allocated during the current quota period they are valid until 30 June 1979. Consequently, imports of footwear made against quota allocated for the current quota period may be made up to six months from the date of completion of the current period. It is not possible to forecast the proportion of footwear quota allocated for the current period which will actually be imported on completion of the current period on 31 December 1978. As well, imports of footwear which are not subject to quota control are being made and these quantities cannot be accurately forecast. Footwear not subject to control or not included in total quota allocated includes rubber gumboots, specialised sporting footwear, high priced footwear exceeding a determined value for duty and certain handmade footwear imported from developing countries. 
There is provision for reducing and increasing quota levels. As a part of the three year programme of assistance until mid- 1980 for the textiles, clothing and footwear industries announced on 22 November 1977, a Textiles, Clothing and Footwear Review Committee was established. This Committee advises the Minister for Industry and Commerce and the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs on the six-monthly adjustments of quota levels that may be required, in the light of demand variations, to avoid disruption and any consequential major contractions in employment. The Committee may recommend that variations of plus or minus twenty per cent be made to each six-monthly allocation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) 1976-$ 13,365.36; (b) 1977-$36,682.04; (c) 1978- $17,085.55 (to 30.6.78). 
37,663. 
1976-3; 1977-4; 1978-1. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Homeless Persons Assistance Amendment Bill 1978 as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore that you permit the subject matter of the two Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the reports of the Industries Assistance Commission on: 
Starting, regulating and control apparatus and other electrical equipment. 
Certain welded steel pipe and tube (developing country preferences). 
Short-term assistance to brandy. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) and (2 ) The content of the national companies and securities legislation is still the subject of confidential discussions between Commonwealth and State Ministers. It would be inappropriate for me to disclose particulars of those discussions at this stage. 
3 ) My Department has considered that pan of theFourth Report of the South Australian Criminal Law and Penal Method Reform Committee which deals with corporate criminal responsibility. It has been noted that recommendation (a) at page 368 of that Report recommends that corporate criminal responsibility should be made the subject of a separate inquiry. 
Access by Former Ministers to their Papers of Office (Question No. 1575) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Officers of my Department have studied the United Kingdom White Paper on 'The Conduct of Company Directors'. As the honourable member is aware, the new cooperative companies and securities legislation will be based on the existing laws in force in the States which are parties to the Interstate Corporate Affairs Agreement (New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland and Western Australia) with such amendments as have been agreed to by the Commonwealth and the States. The question of what amendments are to be made to that legislation is still the subject of discussion between Commonwealth and State Ministers. 
and (3) Although the content of the legislation is still to be settled, Ministers have agreed to look closely at these matters in the context of the amendments to be incorporated in the initial co-operative legislation. 
Funds transferred to and from Australia by Migrants  (Question No. 1710) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
to (5)See (1)above 
The Commonwealth is currently providing assistance to the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Company Limited and is entering into a sharing arrangement with the Tasmanian Government and the company to continue assistance for a further period of 21 months from 1 October 1978. Basically the arrangements will provide for the Company to fund the purchase of certain new road and mine vehicles, and the Commonwealth and State Governments to share on a dollar for dollar basis the balance of any cash deficit during the period 1 October 1978 to 30 June 1980, up to a combined upper limit of $7.6m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Insignificant quantities of metal or glass waste are generated by my Department or the statutory authorities under my control. See the answer provided by my colleague, the Minister for Administrative Services to Parliamentary Question No. 1437 in respect of waste paper. 
See(l). 
Pursuant to section 171 of the Trade Practices Act 1974, I present the annual report of the Trade Practices Commission for the year ended 30 June 1 978. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)-  by leave- agreed to: 
That this House, in accordance with the provisions of the Parliamentary Papers Act 1908, authorises the publication of the report of the Trade Practices Commission for the year 1977-78. 
That the paper be printed. 
I am sure that all honourable members will agree with the honourable member for Higgins that the vast majority of young people in Australia are responsible people. Australia can be very proud of them. The suggestion that has been made by the honourable member is one that has some merit. Indeed, the matter has been the subject of discussion within the ranks of the Government parties. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations in fact is giving serious consideration to the suggestion. I am unable to advise the honourable member or the House about the degree to which the Minister has examined the matter. I assure the honourable member that it is under review. It is considered by the Minister and the Government to be a suggestion with merit. There are difficulties, of course, associated with the implementation and the organisation of a scheme of the kind that has been mentioned by the honourable member for Higgins. The matter is under serious consideration. When the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations returns to Australia I will draw his attention to the question and to the comments of the honourable member. 
I will be pleased to examine the content of the honourable member's question and let him have a reply later. 
Pursuant to section 5 (3B) of the Statutory Rules Publication Act 1903, I present a statement relating to the Ombudsman (Northern Territory Self-Go vernment) (Transitional Arrangements) Regulations- Statutory Rules No. 104 of 1978. 
I move: 
Customs TariffProposals Nos 22 and 23 ( 1 978). 
The Customs TariffProposals I have just tabled relate to proposed alterations to the Customs Tariff Act 1966. Proposals No. 22 formally places before Parliament, as required by law, tariff changes introduced by  Gazette  Notice during the last recess. The proposals implement the Government's decision on recommendations made by the Industries Assistance Commission in its report on Starting, Regulating and Control Apparatus and Other Electrical Equipment. Proposals No. 23 provides for the reduction in duty from 1 July 1978 on a further group of commodities added to Schedule 'A' of the New ZealandAustralia Free Trade Agreement. A comprehensive summary of the changes contained in Proposals No. 22 has been prepared and is now being circulated to honourable members. I commend the proposals to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Cohen)  adjourned. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Industries Assistance Commission; Prices Justification Tribunal; Trade Practices Commission; Temporary Assistance Authority; Trade Practices Tribunal. 
(a) Industries Assistance Commission, Temporary Assistance Authority: 1975-76-57,9 13,000; ] 976-77-S8, 1 5 1,000; 1 977-78-$8,403,000. 
Prices Justification Tribunal: 1975-76- S2, 192,000; 1 976-77-$2, 165,750; 1 977-78-$ 1 ,996, 100. 
Trade Practices Commission, Trade Practices Tribunal: 1975-76-S3, 189,200; 1976-77-53.378.500; 1977-78-$3,495,300. 
Industries Assistance Commission, Prices Justification Tribunal, Trade Practices Commission: Appropriations are divided into 2 sub-divisions: 
. Salaries and Payments in the nature of Salary. 
Administrative Expenses. 
Temporary Assistance Authority, Trade Practices Tribunal: Included in the overall departmental special appropriation- 'Holders of Public Office- ( Remuneration Tribunals Act, 1973)'. 
Auditor-General's Office. 
The Industries Assistance Commission and Temporary Assistance Authority were established on 1 January, 1974 under the Industries Assistance Commission Act 1973. The Prices Justification Tribunal Act was established on 1 August, 1973 under the Prices Justification Act 1973. The Trade Practices Commission and the Trade Practices Tribunal were established on 1 October, 1974 under the Trade Practices Act 1974. 
There have been no formal reviews recently into the authorities. However their operations and the effects of the relevant legislation are kept under regular examination. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. The Commonwealth Government has taken a close interest in the development of the proposed uniform consumer credit legislation, including the possible need for amendments to the Trade Practices Act. Whether amendments are necessary and in what form will depend on the provisions which are finally adopted by the States and Territories. 
Freedom of Information: Interdepartmental Committee-1973  (Question No. 1S65) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) For the quota periods beginning 1 November 1977, 1 January 1978, 1 March 1978 and 1 July 1978, applications for allocation of quota from the anomalies reserve totalled: 
Clothing-746; Textiles-388; Footwear-36 1 . 
For the quota period beginning 1 September 1978, applications received were: 
Clothing- 1947; Textiles-880. 
For the quota periods beginning I November 1977. 1 January 1978, 1 March 1978 and I July 1978, successful applications for quota from the anomalies reserve were: 
Clothing-355; Textiles-284; Footwear-73. 
For the quota period beginning 1 September 1978 the Textiles, Clothing and Footwear Special Quotas Advisory Committee has not yet made recommendations to the Committee of Ministers. 
Fifteen percent. 
Allocations of quota from the anomalies reserve are non-transferable and recipients are so advised. Representative allocations have been subsequently investigated by officers of the Department to ensure they have been properly used. 
In one instance, an apparent intent to sell the quota was ascertained; this investigation has not yet been completed. 
Every application received is analysed by the Committee Secretariat and then given full and careful consideration by the  Chairman  and each Committee member. Each application is required to be considered on its individual merits and then in relation to all other applications. 
The  Chairman  then makes a comprehensive report and recommendations to myself and the Ministers for Trade and Resources, Industry and Commerce and Foreign Affairs. As soon as the decisions are made by Ministers all applicants are advised of the outcome of their application. 
The main reasons for delays in allocations from the anomalies reserve are the large number of applications involved, the clerical function of ensuring that all applications are duly considered and the need to analyse and compare the relative merits of each application. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs for the year ended 30 June 1 978. 
For the information of honourable members I present the Industries Assistance Commission Report on Hosiery, Undergarments and Knitted Sleepwear: Additional Short-Term Assistance. 
I move: 
Customs TariffProposals Nos. 24 to 26 ( 1 978). 
The Customs TariffProposals I have just tabled relate to proposed alterations to the Customs Tariff Act 1966. Proposals No. 24 give effect to the decision by the Government on a recommendation by the Industries Assistance Commission in its report on measuring, checking, precision instruments and apparatus, et cetera that surveillance cameras be dutiable at 15 per cent. The Proposals also contain an administrative change clarifying the classification of coins, having numismatic interest. 
Proposals No. 25 implement the Government's decision on recommendations made by the Industries Assistance Commission in its Report on Hosiery, Undergarments and Knitted Sleepwear: Additional Short Term Assistance. The effect of this decision is to introduce tariff quotas on knitted socks, ankle-socks, sockettes and the like, sleepwear, tights and certain other undergarments. 
Proposals No. 26 extend, until 28 February 1979, the existing rate of 65 per cent applying to imports of orange juice pending consideration by the Government of the report by the Industries Assistance Commission on the Australian Citrus Industry. The new duties take effect from tomorrow. A comprehensive summary of the changes contained in the Proposals has been prepared and is now being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Proposals to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Klugman)  adjourned. 
The matters referred to by the honourable member for Henty result from decisions taken by the  Chairman  of the Industries Assistance Commission. In taking those decisions he is acting under the powers he has as permanent head to make the best use of the resources available to him. I understand that the basis of the decision is that the IAC will be able to make better use of the manpower resources and that this will result in increased efficiency. I am also advised that the decisions taken by the  Chairman  of the IAC do not relate directly to the staff ceilings; it is more a matter of making the best use of the manpower resources. I would be concerned if, as the honourable member suggests, industry were not adequately served by the IAC and there were added costs and inconvenience to industry generally. I would hope that the increased efficiency as a result of the redeployment of manpower within the IAC would offset any inconvenience that would be caused by way of additional travel to Canberra. In the light of the question raised by the honourable member and the matters that he included in his question, I shall take the matter up with the  Chairman  of the IAC and seek an assurance that industry will be adequately served and not seriously inconvenienced and put to additional cost as a result of these movements. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the Industries Assistance Commission interim report on carpets, carpeting, et cetera, together with correspondence between the  Chairman  of the IAC and myself relating to this report. 
Pursuant to section 10 of the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Act 1976, I present the recommendations of the Queensland and the Tasmanian State Grants Commissions on financial assistance to local government in those States for 1978-79. These recommendations have already been made available to honourable members from Queensland and Tasmania respectively? 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Unlike the previous subsidy scheme which was based on the relevant capital city wholesale prices, the current scheme subsidises the freight component of the price of eligible products to the extent that the rural customer pays no more than 4c per gallon (0.88c per litre) of the freight costs. It is no longer possible to relate the subsidy scheme to capital city wholesale prices as these vary between the capital cities and between oil companies. 
Yes. 
I have noted the media statement referred to by the honourable member that apparently was released yesterday by  Sir Samuel 
Burston. It is wrong to assume that the Government is indifferent to this matter. Indeed, I have been in close contact with the parties over recent days and I have been watching the situation extremely carefully. I noted that the honourable member, in referring to  Sir Samuel's  statement, omitted to refer to the statement that was issued also yesterday by  Sir Norman  Young, the  Chairman  of Elder Smith Goldsbrough Mort Ltd. I welcome the statement by  Sir Norman  Young because he indicated that Elder Smith Goldsbrough Mort Ltd does not wish to act in defiance of the Prices Justification Tribunal. I also note that the thrust of  Sir Norman's  comment is that Elder Smith Goldsbrough Mort Ltd is looking for a final determination by the PJT on all of its charges. This indicates that the company intends to abide by the final determination of the Prices Justification Tribunal. 
It is interesting also to note that the Tribunal yesterday announced that it had decided to put to public inquiry very soon proposals submitted recently by Dalgety Australia Ltd and Elder Smith Goldbrough Mort Ltd to vary the prices those companies charge for various woolbroking services throughout Australia. The PJT has also indicated that the inquiry will be wide enough to embrace, if necessary, all aspects of woolbroking charges. The Tribunal will welcome submissions from all interested parties. I can assure the honourable member and the House that this matter is being watched very carefully by the Government, and we will continue to watch it carefully. 
Pursuant to section 30K of the Industries Assistance Commission Act 1973 I present the annual report of the Temporary Assistance Authority for the year ended 30 June 1978, together with a statement outlining the action taken during the year 1977-78 on reports made to me as Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Temporary Assistance Authority on carbon coated film. 
I present for the information of honourable members the interim report of the Industries Assistance Commission on AsbestosShort Term Assistance. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Temporary Assistance Authority on gearboxes, gears and shaft couplings. 
I move: 

 Customs Tariff Proposals Nos 2 7 and 28 ( 1 978). 
The Customs Tariff Proposals I have just tabled relate to proposed alterations to the Customs Tariff Act 1966. Proposals No. 27 place before Parliament, as required by law, tariff changes introduced by  Gazette  notice during the last recess. The changes arose from the Government's decision on recommendations made by the Industries Assistance Commission in its interim report on carpets, carpeting, et cetera. The effect of the changes is that tufted carpeting, Administer carpeting and certain carpet tiles are dutiable at 30 per cent on and from 5 October. 
Proposals No. 28 implement the Government's decision on recommendations made by the Temporary Assistance Authority in its reports on: Gearboxes, Gears and Shaft Couplings; and Carbon Coated Film. The effect of the changes is that certain industrial gearboxes, gears and shaft couplings will be subject to an additional temporary duty making the total rate of duty 35 per cent. Coated copying film of polyester, propylene and cellulose acetate will attract an additional temporary duty making the total rate of duty on these goods 25 per cent. The new duties operate from tomorrow. 
A comprehensive summary of the changes contained in the proposals has been prepared and is now being circulated to honourable members. I commend the proposals to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Klugman)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The decision not to proceed with publication of the magazine,  Consumer Protection and You  was made in the context of Government measures to effect savings in expenditure early in 1976. The decision was announced by the then Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs on 4 February 1976. 
I understand that only proof copies of the first issue were printed. 
The total cost of materials and outside assistance for production was about $21,000. (This included preliminary work on the planned second issue.) The planned contents of the first issue were: comparisons of drained weights of canned fruit and vegetables comparative tests of selected interior house paints food poisoning smoking steering lock problems in a popular car model vehicle recalls alcohol and driving road safety guide to colour television purchase information on UHF. 
It was estimated in 1976 that publication of the magazine would have involved a subsidy of at least $30,000 per issue and the development of an expensive research program to provide material for it. The Government continues to believe that expenditure of this order could not be justified in current circumstances, given particularly that this area of consumer protection is relatively well covered by State Governments and consumer organisations. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on products of the printing industry. 
I move: 
by leave-  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I am grateful to you and the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  for the courtesy extended to me in this matter. Since my second reading speech introducing the Trade Practices Amendment Bill in April this year, the Government has received a number of submissions on the Bill from industry, business and consumer groups. These submissions relate principally to the manufacturers warranties provisions of the Bill. After careful consideration of the submissions received, the Government has decided that amendments should be moved to the Bill when it is considered during the Committee stage. Apart from a number of amendments to clarify certain provisions of the Bill, the amendments seek to make the following changes. 
First, the definition of express warranty is to be amended so that an express warranty applies to undertakings, assertions or statements in relation to the quality, performance or characteristics of the goods. Secondly, a manufacturer's liability, where his goods are of unmerchantable quality, will be extended to the successors in title to a consumer. Thirdly, the amendments seek to provide a statutory limitation on the liability of a manufacturer to indemnify a seller in the circumstances set out in the Bill. Fourthly, the amendments seek to provide greater certainty as to the time at which a seller's or a consumer's cause of action will accrue against the manufacturer and to provide for a maximum period of 10 years during which the manufacturer will remain liable for his goods. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on conditions for eligibility for bed sheeting bounty. 
by leave- Honourable members will recall that, in November 1976 when introducing amendments to the Prices Justification Act, the then Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs stated that the Government would be closely monitoring the effects of the operations of the Prices Justification Tribunal to ensure that the Government's objectives were being met. Those objectives are that no unreasonable administrative restraints are placed on economic recovery and that the PJT's operations are practical, clear and within the framework of Government policy. Consistent with that intention and with those objectives in mind, the Government has reviewed the role and functions of the Tribunal. It has given particular attention to the balance which should be struck between the costs of the PJT's operations and the need to provide for inquiry into and surveillance of particular prices. 

 As pan of that review, I have held consultations with a broad cross-section of the community, including the trade unions and business, and have examined submissions made to me by interested persons and organisations including consumer groups. Representations received ranged from suggestions that the PJT be abolished to views expressed by the unions that the PJT be retained  essentially in  its present form. 
The Government has decided to retain the PJT. However the Government has become increasingly concerned at the cost which the operations of the PJT represent to business and ultimately to the consumer, particularly at a time of keen competition between traders. In view of this, further changes will be made to the PJT's operations in the interest of freeing the business community from unnecessary regulation. The proposed changes will further reduce the emphasis on price notification in the PJT's operations, while maintaining its capacity to inquire into and keep under surveillance prices in specific areas. The present system of prior notification of price increases by companies imposes a regulatory cost on business which is disproportionate to the advantages it provides. The Government proposes, therefore, to remove the requirement for companies prescribed on the basis of turnover to notify their price increases to the PJT. 
There is, however, a value in retaining a modified form of price notification to ensure adequate price surveillance for goods and services that have been subject to inquiry by the PJT. The Government has decided therefore that the notification provisions will only be applied, for a limited period, in cases where the PJT, following a public inquiry, decides particular companies or groups of companies should be so required. For these companies, the PJT will have a discretion to require notification for a period of up to 12 months, or a longer period should the Minister so approve. This provision will enable the PJT to monitor the company's pricing behaviour closely following a public inquiry. The public inquiry function of the PJT is at present limited to determining whether prices charged or proposed to be charged by companies are justified. The PJT will retain this function. 
In addition, it will be able to undertake inquiries, as directed by the Minister, which will not necessarily be confined to the question whether the prices under inquiry are justified. The PJT's present examination of charges for beef marketing and processing, which is being undertaken outside the provisions of the Prices Justification Act, is an example of the type of wide ranging price examination the PJT will be able to undertake. The amendment will allow such examinations to be conducted as public inquiries at which witnesses will be free to debate issues with the full protection of the Prices Justification Act. 
Whilst the PJT will retain its capacity to initiate inquiries into company prices, the Government  sees  a value in establishing a pre-inquiry consultative process which would be analogous, in a sense, to the pre-determination conference held under the Trade Practices Act. A pre- inquiry process will provide an opportunity for the company concerned and interested parties to make submissions on the question whether an inquiry ought to be held. Apart from this, a preinquiry process will  allow the  PJT to obtain basic information about the company or the industry concerned without using the public hearing for this purpose and, in certain cases, may establish that a public inquiry is not necessary. The decision whether to proceed to a public inquiry will be subject to approval by the Minister in respect of inquiries initiated by the PJT. Where the Minister initiates an inquiry, he is currently required to specify to the PJT not only the goods or services which are to be the subject of the inquiry but also the companies which are to be covered. In future it will be open to the Minister, if he so wishes, to nominate the goods or services concerned, leaving it to the PJT to select the companies to be taken to inquiry. 
The price freeze provisions of the Act will be amended to provide the PJT with a discretion to allow an interim price increase to a company under inquiry. The existing provisions are unduly restrictive and can prevent companies from recovering legitimate cost increases for up to four months in certain cases. These provisions will not apply in respect of inquiries initiated by the Minister which do not require the PJT to consider the justification of the prices under inquiry. Present time limits for completion of inquiries by the PJT will be made more flexible by allowing the Minister to specify the time for completion of inquiries initiated by him and by allowing the PJT to extend the time for other inquiries with the consent of the company concerned. 
The confidentiality provisions of the Act will be modified so that companies may claim confidentiality in respect of documents and submissions containing secret formulas or processes. 
If requested, the PJT will not disclose information which, in its opinion, would damage the competitive position of a company, unless the PJT considers it in the public interest to do so. A provision will be included in the Act to allow the Minister to issue general directions to the PJT as to any matter which should be given special consideration by it in the performance of its functions and the exercise of its powers. This provision will ensure that, notwithstanding its statutory independence to arrive at its own findings in particular cases, the PJT's operations will be placed within the framework of Government policy. 
In order that early effect may be given to the Government's decisions, I shall be writing to the Acting Chairman of the PJT requesting that the PJT consider using the exemption procedures of the Act to release companies from the notification provisions unless they have been subject to public inquiry within the past year. It is intended to amend the Act as soon as possible. 
The Government is fully aware of the significance of its decision to retain the PJT. Before reaching that decision and the other decisions I have outlined, the Government gave ample opportunity for views to be put on the matter. Full and careful consideration has been given to these views. The overall effect of the changes to the PJT will substantially reduce the cost to business of servicing its regulatory requirements. They will also maintain the PJT's ability to undertake inquiries where evidence indicates that prices need to be examined. I present the following paper: 
Pursuant to section 10 of the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Act 1976 1 present the recommendations of the New South Wales, Victorian, South Australian and Western Australian Grants Commissions on financial assistance to local government in those States for 1978-79. These recommendations have already been made available to honourable members from New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Western Australia respectively. 
Pursuant to section 40 of the Industrial Research and Development Incentives Act 1 976 1 present on behalf of the Minister for Productivity the annual report of the Australian Industrial Research and Development Incentives Board for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to amend section 45d of the Trade Practices Act 1974. The amendments the Government is putting forward are designed to prohibit persons from engaging in certain conduct for the purpose and having the effect of preventing or substantially hindering overseas and interstate trade or commerce. Conduct of the kind to be prohibited strikes at the heart of the prosperity of Australia, and affects us all. As a trading nation we are dependent upon our sea and air links. It is vital that these links remain open so that we can export and import our goods at times most favourable to our seasons, to our economy and to our balance of trade. The disruption of overseas trade adds to the cost burdens borne by all of us. Similarly, the costs to business and to the Australian community of a hindering or prevention of interstate trade or commerce are enormous. 
The Government is determined to legislate in the most effective way it can to deal with conduct which prevents or substantially hinders Australia's legitimate trading and commercial activities. Since July last year, provision has existed in the Trade Practices Act, under section 45d for dealing with certain types of boycotts. The changes to section 45d proposed by this Bill will enable more effective action to be taken in respect of boycotts. When my predecessor introduced into this Parliament in May 1977 the Trade Practices Amendment Bill which inserted section 45d into the Act, he stated that the Government's views regarding the problems of boycotts were based on two fundamental principles. Firstly, that the Government considered that boycotting the commercial activities of particular persons is generally undesirable conduct, on which the Trade Practices Act should take a firm line. Secondly, the then Minister said that the Government believed that it is essential that the Trade Practices Act should take an evenhanded approach to boycotts and apply, so far as possible, to both business and employees alike. 
This Bill embodies those two fundamental principles. Firstly, experience in dealing with boycotts since the enactment of section 45d has shown that more effective provisions are needed to enable persons and, if necessary, Governments to take prompt and firm action to stop boycotts disrupting trade and commerce. The measure I am introducing will complement the firm line already taken in the Trade Practices Act. Secondly, the measure is, so far as possible, even-handed. It will apply to business and to employee conduct. Purely consumer boycotts will, however, remain exempted. I draw to the attention of honourable members the fact that employee boycotts of the kind dealt with in the Bill, the dominant purpose of which is substantially related to such things as remuneration and conditions of employment, remain not prohibited by the Act. The provisions deeming trade unions to have engaged in the boycott also remain applicable and individuals remain not subject to the pecuniary penalties of the Act for a contravention of the amended section. 
Clause 4 of the Bill deals with the new prohibited conduct. That clause also provides that it is a defence to that conduct if the conduct is not a contravention of other sections of the Act, or that the dominant purpose for which the defendant engaged in the conduct was to preserve or further a business carried on by him. Clause 5 of the Bill prevents the imposition of more than one pecuniary penalty provided under the Act. Clause 6 redrafts the current provision in the Act which permits the Trade Practices Commission to grant authorisation for section 45D conduct. The Government believes that this legislation will be widely endorsed as being a positive and proper step to enable persons and Governments to deal quickly and decisively with crippling boycotts. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
It is true that the basis of the package of proposals which I outlined last week for consideration by the public and, in particular, by the various sections of the oil industry is, on the one hand, the preservation of competition in the market place and, on the other hand, the retention of the small business undertaking in the petroleum retailing industry. I emphasise that the proposals that have been outlined are proposals for consideration. No  decision has been taken by  the Government and no decision will be taken in relation to the possible implementation of these proposals until full consultation has been held between the various sections of the oil industry and me. In the course of the next few weeks I propose to talk to all sections of the industry that wish to have consultation with the Government. I have also indicated that the Government stands ready to receive any written submissions. I reemphasise that the basic intent in these proposals is the retention of a healthy competitive market place in the interests of the consumer and the maintenance of a place for the small business sector in the retailing industry. 
Pursuant to section 45 of the Industries Assistance Commission Act 1973 I present the report of the Industries Assistance 
Commission for the year ended 30 June 1978 together with a statement outlining the action taken during the year 1977-78 on reports made to me as Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. 
I have an amendment to the Schedule, which reads: 
CLASSES OF MACHINE TOOLS 
Class 1 
Power-fed machine tools of the kind known as numerically-controlled machining centres or of the kind known as computer-controlled machining centres. 
Class 2 
Automotive reconditioning machine tools other than machine tools included in Class 1 . 
Class 3 
Power-fed machine tools (other than machine tools included in Class 1 or 2 or machine tools of a metal-forming or metal-shearing kind) that- 
have been designed for the purpose of performing, in relation to a particular kind of work-piece, a particular operation or particular operations; and 
cannot, without structural alteration, be used for any other purpose. 
Class 4 
Machine tools other than machine tools included in Class 2, 3 or 4. 
I move: 
Omit- 
Class4 
Machine tools other than machine tools included in Class 2, 3 or 4.', substitute- 
Class 4 
Machine tools other than machine tools included in Class 1,2or3.'. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report- by leave- adopted. 
My attention has been drawn to the evidence referred to by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, that is, the evidence given before the New South Wales Royal Commission. I do not propose to comment on the details of that evidence. It is obviously a matter for the royal commissioner to assess and to take whatever action he thinks appropriate. So far as the other parts of the honourable member's question are concerned, I take this opportunity of reminding the House of the difficulties that are occasioned by the surveillance of passengers and passenger luggage as people arrive in Australia. Large numbers of people arrive daily from overseas ports and it is just not possible to search physically every passenger and piece of passenger luggage. Frankly, I do not think that if it were physically possible it would be acceptable. 
Several safeguards are, of course, built into the system. For example, great emphasis is being placed at present on the collection of intelligence information so that wherever possible, prior warning is obtained in relation to people who are engaged, or suspected of being engaged, in drug trafficking. Random checks of both persons and luggage are made. A number of new facilities have been installed. These include the use of detector dogs. Honourable members will be aware of several cases recently in which luggage has been selected by detector dogs, drugs have been located and arrests have been made. I conclude by assuring the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and indeed all honourable members that all practical steps are being taken by the Bureau of Customs and the Bureau of Narcotics to reduce the drug traffic. I also take the opportunity of saying that a very high degree of co-operation exists between the agencies at the Commonwealth and State levels, including the State police. 
-The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by me to his Question on Notice No. 1678 (See  Hansard,  12 October 1978, pages 1884-5). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The article to which the honourable member refers ' was published after the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 (Public Law 93-344-July 12, 1974) was signed into law but before the new Congressional procedures took effect in 1975. Although the article envisaged comprehensive intergovernmental impact statements being included in reports of Congressional Budget Committees, Public Law 93-344 merely requires that  . . a statement of any significant changes in the proposed levels of Federal assistance to State and local government . . .'be included in such reports; and a statement of that kind, for example, is attached to the report of the House Budget Committee on the First Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for the financial year 1978. 
The honourable member would be aware of the general difficulty in introducing Congressional procedures into the Australian Parliamentary system. Nevertheless, developments in Congressional Budget Committee arrangements will be followed with interest. For the present, however, I believe the Parliament is well served by the information provided in the Commonwealth's budget documents, particularly Budget Paper No. 7- 'Payments To or for the States, the Northern Territory and Local Government Authorities'. 
Co-ordinative and Consultative Arrangements with the States  (Question No. 2092) 
-The Australian Statistician has provided the following answers to the honourable member's questions ( 1 ) to (4): 
()- 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The need for amendments to the Trade Practices Act as a result of the Federal Court decision referred to in the question is currently under examination. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Officers of my Department has investigated the matter, including the contacting of Firestone Australia Pty Ltd, Auburn, NSW. From that investigation, it appears that this type of tyre has never been manufactured in, or commercially imported into, Australia. Firestone Australia Pty Ltd has informed my Department that it is not aware of any complaint regarding the safety of any Firestone tyres currently produced or supplied in Australia. 
No. However officers of my Department receive information from many sources on product investigations in the United States concerning safety, including investigations carried out by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. 
Department of Transport: Consultation with the States  (Question No. 2096) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to question number 2090,  Hansard  of 17 October 1978, page 1972. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the BUI now before the House is to give effect to the Government's decision to provide assistance to the assembly in Australia of general purpose commercial motor vehicles, including buses, having a gross vehicle mass of 2.72 tonnes or more. Following advice from the Industries Assistance Commission in its report No. 169 of 15 May 1978 on light commercial and four-wheel drive vehicles and heavier commercial vehicles and components, it has been decided to accord assistance by way of a bounty scheme providing for payment to eligible Australian assemblers of a bounty at the rate of 20 per cent of the into-store value of axles, gear boxes, propeller shafts, air brake equipment and suspension systems, having an Australian content of not less than 65 per cent, which are purchased from suppliers not associated in business with the vehicle assembler for use as original equipment in the assembly of general purpose commercial motor vehicles, including buses, having a gross vehicle mass of 2.72 tonnes or more, during the period to which the Act applies. 
The scheme, which will operate from 17 August 1978 and cease on 31 December 1984, is part of a total package of measures designed to encourage the assembly in Australia of commercial motor vehicles; to generally maintain employment in the industry; and at the same time to provide opportunities to reduce the impact of the prices of commercial vehicles on transport costs in Australia. The other elements of the package, which were implemented on 17 August 1978, involved the setting of the rate of customs duty on imported completely built up vehicles at 22.5 per cent and the admission duty free under by-law of imported original equipment components and assemblies which do not form part of unassembled vehicles at the time of importation into Australia. Clause 22 of the Bill continues the Government's policy of expanding, wherever possible, the jurisdiction of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal in relation to administrative decisions which affect the rights or entitlements of persons under Commonwealth legislation. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978 is to enact the excise tariff alterations introduced into this House as Excise Tariff Proposals Nos 2 and 3 on 15 August 1978 following the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard).  Clause 3 of the Bill, in conjunction with clause 2 and the Schedule, proposes enactment of the alterations in the duties of excise on beer, spirits and manufactured tobacco products as set out in Excise Tariff Proposals No. 2. 
The Government has received representations on behalf of the Australian brandy manufacturing industry in relation to the effect of this measure on the industry. We are concerned with the position of Australian brandy producers. Indeed although the Budget applied increases equally to all excisable spirits, it provided no new impost on Australian wine. Demonstrably this action has already stimulated domestic demand. There is an Industries Assistance Commission report on potable spirits outstanding and the appropriate time to consider further the position of the brandy industry is in the context of the report. The representations will be carefully considered by the Government at that time. 
Clause 4 of the Bill proposes enactment of the alteration in excise duty on crude oil as set out in Excise Tariff Proposals No. 3. This clause, which increases the excise duty on crude oil by $45.63 per kilolitre, forms one part of the legislative arrangement designed to effect the Government's decision that all Australian-produced crude oil should be priced to refineries at import parity levels. 
The other part of this legislation arrangement is the Excise Amendment Bill 1978 which was assented to on 2 1 September. That Bill provided for variable rebates on the excise duty rate for certain categories of crude oil. The conjoint effect of clause 4 and of Excise Amendment Bill 1978 will be to achieve, from 16 August 1978, the net rate of excise duty required to bring up to import parity prices all indigenous crude oil presently priced below import parity levels. Details of all the alterations are set out in the notes on clauses which have been circulated. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 4) 1978 now before the House proposes amendments to the Customs Tariff Act 1966. The Bill, which contains 16 schedules, is necessary to enact tariff changes made since May 1978. All the changes were incorporated in Customs Tariff Proposals Nos 13-29 (1978) which have been introduced into the Parliament at different times since May 1978. In the main, the amendments give effect to decisions by the Government in respect of the following reports by the Industries Assistance Commission and the Temporary Assistance Authority: 
Ball and Roller Bearings; 
Bench or Pedestal Drilling Machines, Belt Driven, Pulley Operated (Non-Power Fed)- Interim Report; 
Brassieres- Rate or Rates of Duty Outside Quota; 
Brooms and Brushes; 
Carbon Coated Film; 
Carpets, Carpeting etcetera; 
Domestic Refrigerating Appliances etcetera; 
Gearboxes, Gears and Shaft Couplings; 
Hoists, Pulley Tackle and Winches (Interim Report); 
Hosiery, Undergarments and Knitted Sleep-Wear- Short Term Additional Assistance; 
Insulators; 
Light Commercial and Four- Wheel Drive Vehicles and Heavier Commercial Vehicles and Components; 
Metal Working Machine Tools; 
Orange Juice; 
Products of the Printing Industry; 
Starting, Regulating and Control Apparatus and Other Electrical Equipment, and 
Vices. 
The Bill also contains increases in Customs duties on beer, spirits and manufactured tobacco products which formed part of the Government's Budgetary program. Honourable members will recall that when the tariff proposals were introduced into the House a comprehensive summary in respect of each of the proposals was circulated which set out the nature of the changes. I have had a consolidation of those summaries prepared, and copies may be obtained from the Table Office. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 2), the Income Tax (Non-Resident Companies) Bill, the Income Tax (Companies and Superannuation Funds) Amendment Bill and the Income Tax (Rates) Amendment Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of each of these Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Australian Statistician has provided the following information on the quantity and value of almonds imported during the years 1973-74 to 1977-78: 
Pursuant to sections 35 and 35A of the Prices Justification Act 1973 I present the Prices Justification Tribunal annual report 1977-78 and its half-yearly report on significant price increases with which the Tribunal was concerned for the six months ended 30 June 1 978. 
I move: 
That the report of the Legislation Committee be adopted. 
In so moving, I wish to comment on two matters which were raised during the consideration by the Legislation Committee of this Bill. The first was the need, or otherwise, for the phrase 'being circumstances beyond the control of the corporation', which comes at the end of proposed new sub-section 74F (4) of the Bill. It was suggested that these words might limit the width of the test of reasonableness contained in the proposed new sub-section. A counter-view which was put, however, was that these words, applying as they do to particular circumstances at the relevant time, would not limit the width of the section, but in fact would ensure that, in looking at whether a corporation acted unreasonably, the courts shall take into account in particular circumstances which might be acts of God, industrial action, or the failure of a resupplier to exercise due care and diligence, which are beyond the control of the manufacturer. The Committee accepted this counter view in general, but I undertook to examine the desirability of a possible rearrangement of the words of this proposed new subsection as was suggested in Committee. I have examined the matter and I have concluded that there is no ambiguity in the present wording and therefore no further amendment is proposed. 
Secondly, the Legislation Committee raised a question of whether proposed section  74H,  together with proposed section 75L, might have the effect of making a seller loath to settle with a consumer making a claim. It was thought by the Committee that a seller might not be able to be indemnified by the manufacturer until a court has found the manufacturer liable to indemnify him. My view is that the proposed provisions would not operate with this effect. While an action under Division 2 of Part V of the Trade Practices Act may be taken against the seller, he now will have the surety that he can claim such equitable or legal relief from the manufacturer as he could have obtained if the liability of the manufacturer to indemnify him had arisen under a contract of indemnity between them. In the case of goods other than goods ordinarily acquired for personal, domestic or household use or consumption, the extent of the liability of the manufacturer is clearly set out in new section  74L.  Thus, the seller will be aware in this case of the extent of the manufacturer's liability to indemnify him and he can take suitable limitation action himself against the consumer under section 68A of the Act if necessary. 
It was suggested in the Legislation Committee that the onus be placed on the manufacturer to take all reasonable steps to satisfy the circumstances which are given to him and described in new paragraphs  74L(a),  (b) and (c). I have examined this matter and I consider that to do so would place too heavy an onus on the manufacturer and would not effect the degree of certainty which will exist between the seller and the manufacturer so far as indemnification is concerned. Therefore, no further amendment to the Bill is proposed. 
I have an amendment which relates to clause 4. Clause 4 reads: 
Section 4Sd of the Principal Act is amended- 
by inserting after sub-section (1) the following subsections: ( 1a) Subject to this section, a person shall not, in concert with another person, engage in conduct for the purpose, and having or likely to have the effect, of preventing or substantially hindering a third person (not being an employer of the first-mentioned person) from engaging in trade or commerce- 
between Australia and places outside Australia; 
among the States; or 
within a Territory, between a State and a Territory or between two Territories. ( le) In a proceeding under this Art in relation to a contravention of sub-section ( 1 A), it is a defence if the defendant proves- 
that the conduct concerned did not constitute a contravention of sub-section 43 (2), 4SB (2), 46(1) or 47(1), section 48 or sub-section 49 ( 1 ) or (4) or SO ( 1 ) by reason of the operation of another sub-section of section 45, 45b, 46, 47, 49 or 50 or of the operation of section 88 or 93; or 
that the dominant purpose for which the defendant engaged in the conduct concerned was to preserve or further a business carried on by him. (lc) The application of sub-section (lA) in relation to a person in respect of his engaging in conduct in concert with another person is not affected by reason that the other person proves any of the matters mentioned in sub-section (IB) in respect of that conduct.'; and 
by omitting from sub-sections (2), (3), (4) and (6) sub-section (1)' and substituting 'sub-section (1) or (1A) 
I move: 
Omit paragraph (a) of proposed sub-section (IB), substitute the following paragraphs: 
that the conduct concerned is the subject of an authorization in force under section 88; (aa) that a notice in respect of the conduct has been duly given to the Commission under sub-section 93 (1) and the Commission has not given a notice in respect of the conduct under sub-section 93 (3); or'. 
This amendment will make it abundantly clear that proposed new paragraph 4Sd  (  1b) (a) gives an offence only to conduct that is authorised by the Trade Practices Commission or that is the subject of a notification to the Commission which has not been revoked. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report- by leave- adopted. 
by leave- I foreshadow an amendment to be moved in the Committee stage to the Trade Practices Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978. The purpose of this amendment is to alter the proposed paragraph 45D (18)(a) which gives a defence to conduct challenged under new sub-section 45D ( lA). Paragraph 45D ( IB) (a) is designed to give a defence to proceedings under new sub-section 45D (1A) where conduct is specifically exempted by the authorisation or notification provisions of the Act. The provision, as it now appears, is unnecessarily wide and possibly would have the unfortunate and clearly unintended effect of requiring a defendant actually to prove a breach of other provisions of the Act and thus incriminate himself so as to fit within this defence provision. This amendment will make it abundantly clear that new paragraph 45D (IB) (a) gives a defence only to conduct that is authorised by the Trade Practices Commission or is the subject of a notification to the Trade Practices Commission which has not been revoked. 
I do not wish to extend this debate. But, in the course of the address this evening by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  he made an assertion which is quite incorrect. He claimed that a future government would be unable to update environmental protection conditions to which Ranger would be subjected. This is quite incorrect and grossly misrepresents the facts. Condition 4 of the proposed authority attached to the documents tabled by my colleague, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs (  Mr Viner),  specifically allows the imposition of further conditions that will render environmental protection more effective. The Opposition does its case no good by misrepresenting the facts in the way that the Leader of the Opposition did this evening. 
Question put- 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 4) as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, , be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) So far as Telecom carries on a business it is, by section 2a of the Act, bound by the provisions of the Trade Practices Act. However paragraph 51 (1) (a) of the Act excepts from the restrictive trade practices provisions of the Act, acts or things specifically authorised or approved by other Commonwealth Acts or regulations, other than Acts relating to patents, trade marks, designs or copyrights. 
The Telecommunications Commission Act 1975 specifically authorises or approves certain matters (e.g. monopoly on operation of telecommunications installations within Australia- section 94). 
The question of whether particular conduct of Telecom is subject to the Trade Practices Act would therefore depend on the resolution of questions of fact and law in the circumstances of particular cases. 
On behalf of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and for the information of honourable members I present Taxation Statistics 1976-77, the supplement to the 56th report of the Commissioner of Taxation which was presented to Parliament pursuant to section 14 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 on 2 November 1977. 
Ordered that the paper be printed. 
On behalf of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  and pursuant to section 40 of the Curriculum Development Centre Act 1975 I present the report of the Curriculum Development Centre for the year ended 30 June 1977. The report is late due to a change in the Centre's accounting method from a cash basis to an accrual basis in order to represent more correctly the financial operations of the Centre. The change has involved a fresh approval from the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  to the form of the final accounts and a complete re-structuring of the 1976-77 accounts. 
On behalf of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  and pursuant to section 33 of the Australian National University Act 1946 I present the report of the Council of the Australian National University for the year ended 31 December 1977. 
On behalf of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  and pursuant to section 53 of the States Grants (Schools Assistance) Act 1976 I present the report of the Schools Commission on financial assistance granted to each State under the provisions of that Act. 
CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT CENTRE  Mr FIFE  (Farrer- Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs)- On behalf of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  and for the information of honourable members I present a report by the Curriculum Development Centre entitled 'A Parents Guide to Social Education Materials Project' together with a text of a statement by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) The following companies are required to notify proposed price increases for petroleum products to the PJT: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by me to his Question on Notice No. 2072 (see  Hansard,  9 November 1978, page 2685). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The recommendations of the Trade Practices Commission referred to in the question are currently under examination. 
There are 43 members of the staff of the Trade Practices Commission at present engaged directly in the administration of the consumer protection provisions of the Trade Practices Act. In addition, in each of six Regional Offices there is a Director responsible for overall supervision, including consumer protection staff, and there are also support staff who form part of common service units, both in Central and Regional Offices. 
The Trade Practices Commission, in its fourth annual report, attributes delays in investigation and prosecution of consumer protection matters in part to limited staff resources and to delays caused by constitutional and other challenges in the Courts. Insofar as the delays relate to staff resources the Government considers that the staff resources available to the Trade Practices Commisson reflect a proper provision in the context of the Government's total budgetary responsibilities and priorities. The allocation of staff resources within this provision is a matter for the Trade Practices Commission. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department has completed overseas inquiries to assess normal value for edam and gouda cheese in each of the countries included in the present dumping complaint and found to be exporting significant quantities of these types of cheese to Australia. The Department is currently continuing its inquiries to assess the complainant's claims that material injury is being caused to the Australian industry by dumped imports of edam and gouda cheese. 
The Department's assessment should be completed this month. If further action is warranted the Department will arrange for a meeting of interested parties. Following such a meeting a report would be submitted to me for decision as to whether dumping duties should be imposed. In relation to exports from New Zealand, if action were to be proposed, consultations between the New Zealand and Australian Governments would be required in accordance with the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. In view of these circumstances, I am unable to give a firm indication as to when a final decision will be announced. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question, which should be read in conjunction with my answer to Question No. 2227, is as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There were 1,752 business bankruptcies during 1977-78. Of these 1,750 were small businesses within the terms of the definition that is frequently used for statistical purposes, namely, businesses with fewer than 100 employees m manufacturing and twenty employees in retail, wholesale and other tertiary activities. There are no publicly available figures on the number of company liquidations for the whole of Australia. Such figures, even if they were available, might not show clearly how many incorporated small businesses went into liquidation. For example: 
The public documents that are filed in a companies registry do not necessarily disclose whether a particular company is conducting a small business for the purposes of the statistical definition I have referred to. While there is a general assumption that businesses operated by proprietary companies are small businesses, this is not always so. 
Not all companies that go into liquidation are either insolvent or carrying on a business. 
During 1977-78 there were 1,382 non-business bankruptcies; and 33 non-business arrangements with creditors under Part X of the Bankruptcy Act 1 966. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
See answer to(l). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Minister for Productivity to his Question on Notice No. 1794 (see  Hansard,  23 November 1978, page 335 1 ). 
Coal Resources Assessment in Queensland (Question No. 1859) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
For Australia there is a 45 per cent import duty and a special additional customs duty of 12.5 per cent both levied on a free on board (fob) basis; sales tax is payable at 15 per cent on the final wholesale selling price of the vehicle. The current percentage of the retail price of passenger motor vehicles attributed to sales tax in Australia is estimated to be about 10 per cent. 
Prices of vehicles in the overseas countries named are not readily available. 
For these countries I have been advised that the import duty and sales tax rates (or those taxes deemed the equivalent of sales tax) are as follows (based on information held by departments at 2 1 November 1978): 
United Kingdom- 1 1 per cent import duty on vehicles from non-EEC countries, levied on a cost insurance and freight (cif) basis; 8 per cent Value Added Tax levied on the duty paid value. 
United States of America- 3 per cent import duty on vehicles from Preferential countries; 10 per cent import duty on vehicles from General countries (fob basis). Sales tax rates vary from 3 per cent to 7 per cent between various states and are levied on the total amount of the bill of sale depending on the State in which the vehicle is sold. 
New Zealand- 20 per cent import duty on vehicles from Australia and UK. For completely assembled vehicles exported from Canada the following import duties apply. 
If the Canadian or Commonwealth content (as defined) is 75 per cent or more- 33.33 per cent 
If the Canadian or Commonwealth content (as defined) is less than 75 per cent- 55 per cent 
Vehicles from all other sources are subject to an import duty of 55 per cent. All customs duties are based on an fob basis. 
Sales tax is levied on the duty paid value and varies with the engine capacity as follows: 
Up to 1 350 cc- 30 per cent 
Over 1 350 cc and up to 2000 cc- 37.5 per cent 
Over 2000 cc and up to 2700 cc-50 per cent 
Over 2700 cc- 60 per cent 
South Africa- import duty 45 per cent, plus 2 per cent for each R100 (rand) in excess of R1000 value for duty, plus 1 per cent for each 45 kilograms in excess of 1,135 kilograms. Maximum duty leviable is 100 per cent (fob basis). 
In addition an Excise duty is levied on the duty paid value, made up of 42 cents per kilogram, plus 5 cents per kilogram for every 25 kilograms in excess of 1,680 kilograms. Maximum duty leviable is R3,50O. 
There is also a surcharge of 1214 per cent of the value for duty (ie fob value). 
France- 11 per cent import duty on vehicles from non-EEC countries (cif basis); Value Added Tax of 33.3 per cent of the duty paid value on vehicles holding a maximum of 8 passengers or 1 7.6 per cent for all other passenger vehicles. 
Italy- 1 1 per cent import duty on vehicles from nonEEC countries (cif basis); Value Added Tax of 14 per cent of the duty paid value except for private vehicles of 2000 cc or less where VAT is 18 per cent of the duty paid value. 
West Germany- 1 1 per cent import duty on vehicles from non-EEC countries (cif basis); Import Turnover Tax (VAT) of 12 per cent of the duty paid value. 
Japan- no import duty is levied on passenger motor vehicles. This is a temporary measure applying until 3 1 March 1 979. A Commodity Tax of 1 5 per cent for certain small vehicles, 30 per cent for camping cars and 20 per cent for most other passenger motor vehicles is levied on the duty paid (cif) value. The 20 per cent rate has been temporarily reduced from 30 per cent and is expected to remain effective until at least 31 March 1979. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The  Chairman  of the Industries Assistance Commission has the statutory responsibility to ensure the efficient and orderly conduct of the business of the Commission including such matters as the location of Commission staff. I am advised by the  Chairman  that discussions concerning closure of the Sydney and Melbourne offices and consolidation of staff resources are currently being held with the Public Service Board. These will cover matters such as industry access to staff, co-ordination of the Commission's operations, and the appropriate organisation and location of staff consistent with considerations of access, efficiency and costs both to the Government and private enterprise, including the general public 
The Commission does not propose to open new offices in other capital cities at this time. However, as was the position before project branches were located outside Canberra, a high proportion of the Commission's public hearings will continue to be held in Sydney and Melbourne, with some also in other States. In arranging hearing venues the convenience of prospective witnesses will remain a prime consideration. 
For the information of honourable members I present reports of the Industries Assistance Commission on commercial ship repair; fisheries and the fish processing industry; jewellery and other precious metalware, et cetera; timber and timber products and plywood and veneer; umbrellas, sunshades, et cetera and parts therefor; certain paper and paper board; injection or puncture needles; inks and an interim report on certain engines not exceeding 7.46 kilowatts, rotary cultivators and tractors having a power of less than 15 kilowatts. The last four reports were distributed to honourable members during the adjournment. The remaining reports will be distributed today. 
I move: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Calculation of the value of tariff protection to manufacturing industry generally is a difficult and complex task, involving considerable cost. Such calculations are of their nature subject to judgement. They necessitate fundamental assumptions being made about the nature of responses by importers, consumers and local producers to tariff protection. 
The Industries Assistance Commission is the body best placed to make such calculations. 
The most recent calculations made by the Industries Assistance Commission are reported in its Annual Report for 1977-78, The Commission says that it has not been possible to place a dollar value on assistance to the manufacturing sector as a whole but it has calculated estimates of the value of protection to individual industries. The table below sets out net subsidy equivalents, the amount of money that would have to be paid in order to provide assistance equivalent to tariff protection, for selected industries in 1971-72 and in the latest available year 1974-75. 
-The answer to the honourable member's  question  is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Treasurer's statement of 24 January 1979 in which he announced that the Government has decided not to proceed further with consideration of the introduction of a broad based indirect tax. 
Long Term Sick Leave in the Public Service  (Question No. 3040) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
) , (3 ) and (4) See ( 1 ) above. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to amend the Excise Act 1 90 1 to authorise the introduction of a system under which regular exporters of excisable goods may furnish to the Customs Bureau periodic returns of exports, instead of submitting an export entry on each occasion that excisable goods are exported. The amendments proposed in this Bill represent a further step in the restructuring of the general requirements for exportation which began with changes made in 1977 to the export provisions in the Customs Act 1901. 
The system will operate in the same way as that which was introduced to streamline export procedures for goods, other than excisable goods, following amendment of the Customs Act 1 90 1 by the Customs Amendment Act 1 977. The measures contained in the amending Bill will simplify documentation when excisable goods are exported regularly, thereby streamlining export procedures and providing economies for both industry and government. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Public Service Board has advised all Departments that approval for travel on Concorde aircraft will only be given in exceptional circumstances. The Prime Minister approves travel by Ministers including the numbers of any accompanying officials. 
The additional cost of a journey on a Concorde aircraft between New York and London is $126.15 above the normal first class fare for travel between New York and London. 
One departmental official accompanied my predecessor on a Concorde flight from New York to London on 3 July 1977 during an overseas visit approved by the Prime Minister. Two other departmental officers travelled between London and New York by Concorde during an official visit overseas in February and July 1 978 respectively. 
Both these officers paid the additional cost of Concorde travel themselves. 
None. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) Consultations have been taking place between the members of the Commonwealth/State Consumer Products Advisory Committee which comprises representatives from the Commonwealth, States and Territories authorities responsible for consumer affairs. The Committee, in conjunction with appropriate Commonwealth and State authorities, is currently considering a number of the safety aspects of replacement tyres for motor vehicles including the question of whether the roundness of a tyre affects safety. In due course, the Committee will make a recommendation to me as to whether a mandatory consumer product safety standard under the Trade Practices Act is desirable. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The subsidies on exports of gouda cheese are among the issues currently being examined. 
A decision on the matter is not expected pending completion of the current round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations in Geneva. 
I am able to say that following the exposure of a set of proposals late last year the Prime Minister wrote to each State Premier forwarding details of the proposals and seeking the views of the various State governments. Unfortunately, at this point the Prime Minister has not heard from all the States. I have asked the Prime Minister to write again, reminding the Premiers that their response is required urgently by the Commonwealth Government. At the present time the Consul-General for Australia in New York,  Sir Robert  Cotton, in company with officials of my Department is conducting a survey of similar schemes operating in the United States. 
Honourable members will be aware that some States in the United States have already legislated along similar lines to the proposals that are now being considered for Australia. I have asked  Sir Robert  Cotton to speak with representatives of the oil industry, including the retailing part of that industry, and with Government officials in the United States to ascertain how these schemes are operating. I must emphasise that the Government is concerned to ensure that the interests of the consumer are protected and at the same time that the small retailer in Australia has his position strengthened in the oil retailing industry. I am not able to indicate precisely when the Government will be in a position to take a final decision regarding the proposals that have been exposed now for some months, but I indicate that we are anxious to reach a conclusion as soon as possible. 
As soon as  Sir Robert  Cotton has reported and as soon as the Premiers have indicated their position to the Commonwealth, I will report to the Government and, if necessary, arrange meetings with State Ministers who are responsible for petroleum matters within the States. I give an unqualified assurance that the Government regards this matter as important and urgent and will proceed as quickly as possible. 
I am aware of the incident to which the honourable member has referred in his question. The matter has been subject to intensive investigation by my Department and legal proceedings will be taken. In the circumstances I do not propose to add anything further at this stage. 
I move: 
Excise Tariff Proposals Nos. 1 and 2 ( 1979). 
Excise Tariff Proposal Nos. 1 and 2 (1979) which I have just tabled formally place before Parliament certain alterations to the Excise Tariff introduced during the summer recess by authority of Gazette Notices Nos. 1 and 2 (1978) under section 160B of the Excise Act. Proposal No. 1 (1979) increases the excise duty on naturally occurring liquefied petroleum gas by 0.04c per litre to $13 per kilolitre operating on and from 1 December 1978. This change followed the announcement by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  on a package of measures designed to encourage the use of liquefied petroleum gas as an alternative energy source. Proposal No. 2 (1979) increases the excise duty on stabilised crude petroleum oil from $64.53 to $70.98 per kilolitre operating on and from 1 January 1979. This alteration followed determination, by the Minister for National Development, of new import parity prices for the period 1 January to 30 June 1 979 in accordance with the Government's decision that all Australian-produced crude oil should be priced to refineries at import parity levels. I commend the proposals. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a)Yes. (b) Yes. 
On 4 February I released for public information the Formal Agreement between the Commonwealth and each State Government to establish a national companies and securities scheme. The Agreement was signed by the Prime Minister and State Premiers last December. 
The Formal agreement essentially covers the following matters in relation to the scheme: the objectives and the operation of the scheme; the establishment of a Ministerial Council which will have control over the legislation and its administration; the operation of the National Companies and Securities Commission which is to be established by Commonwealth Act; the National Commission's relationship with existing State and Territory administrations; the legislative device which will ensure that the Companies and Securities Industry legislation in force in the Australian Capital Territory at any given time will also be the law in force in the six States; a number of important issues which will be reflected in the substantive Companies and Securities Industry legislation. 
The content of the Companies and Securities Industry legislation under the scheme is still the subject of confidential negotiation between the Commonwealth and State Governments. The State Ministers and I have decided however that in due course drafts of the Companies Bill and the Securities Industry Bill will be exposed for public comment prior to their introduction into the Commonwealth Parliament. Ministers have already exposed for public comment a draft Take-overs Bill. 
In the circumstances I do not think that a white paper will be necessary. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. I am informed that the meeting was called by  Mr Allan  McCann as an approved delegate of the Secretary/ Treasurer of the Australian Federation of Consumer Organisations in accordance with sections 39 and 45 (b) of the Constitution of that organisation, as amended to April 1 978. 
and (3) Assistance was provided to the  Chairman  of the National Consumers Affairs Advisory Council, Professor D. J. Harland to participate in the 9th World Congress of the International Organisation of Consumer Unions held in London, July 1978. Assistance took the form of payment of travel, accommodation and incidental expenses. 
In each of the financial years 1977-78 and 1978-79 the Australian Federation of Consumer Organisations has received a Commonwealth Grant-in-Aid of $85,000. 
(a) The members of the Federation are consumer organisations, and they currently number 53. These names are: 
Australian Capital Territory- Canberra Consumer Incorporated; Citroen Association of Canberra; Consumer Affairs Council of the Australian Capital Territory; Dietetic Association, ACT Inc.; Health Care Consumers Association of ACT; The Australian Association of Dietitians; The Co-operative Federation of Australia. 
New South Wales- Association for Consumer Education; Australian Consumers' Association; Campaign Against Rising Prices; Country Women's Association of New South Wales; The Home Economics Association of New South Wales; Union of Australian Women. 
Northern Territory- The Northern Territory Consumers Protection Group. 
Queensland- Central Queensland Consumers' Association; Consumer Affairs Council of Queensland; Darling Downs Homemakers' Association; National Council of Women of Queensland, Townsville Regional Branch; North Queensland Consumers' Association; Organisation of Queensland Consumers; Queensland Consumers' Association Rockhampton; Queensland Country Women's Association; South Queensland Consumers' Association; The Dietetic Association of Queensland. 
South Australia- Consumers' Association of South Australia; Country Women's Association of Australia; Hyperactivity Association of SA Inc.; National Council of Women of Australia; The South Australian Country Women's Association; The Dietetic Association of SA. 
Tasmania- Country Women's Association in Tasmania; National Council of Women of Tasmania; Northern Regional Consumer Group; The Hobart Consumers Group Limited. 
Victoria- Australian Telecom Employees' Credit Cooperative Limited; Consumer Education Centre; Consumers' Association of Victoria; Credit Consumers' Network; Gippsland Regional Consumers Association; Home Economics Association of Victoria; The Country Women's Association of Victoria; The Tenants Union of Victoria; The Dietetic Association, Victoria; Victorian Commercial Teachers Association; Western Region Consumers ' Association. 
Western Australia- Citizens Advice Bureau of WA Inc.; Consumers' Association of Western Australia; Consumer Action Movement; Home Economics Association of Western Australia; The Country Women's Association of Western Australia (Inc); The Home Economics Association of Australia; The Western Australian Dietetic Association; WA Housewives' Association (Inc). 
Membership details of affiliate bodies are not available. 
No. 
The Australian Consumer Association is but one of the 53 member organisations of the Federation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and ( 2 ) I have been informed that  Mr Lucke  wrote to the Trade Practices Commission suggesting that the acquisition by the Queensland Cement and Lime Co. Ltd, (the company) of shares in North Australia Cement Ltd, was in breach of section 50, the mergers and takeovers provisions of the Trade Practices Act.  Mr Lucke  was subsequently informed by the Commission that the matter had been considered and that no action would be taken. 
I have no knowledge of an agreement of the sort referred to. 
No. 
The question raised by the honourable member for Wide Bay refers to the draft determination recently handed down by the Trade Practices Commission dismissing applications for authorisation of certain restrictive agreements relating to the supply and distribution of newspapers and magazines. It also relates to a draft notice of intention to give notice under section 93 (3) of the Trade Practices Act with respect to practices of exclusive dealing. There are processes that can be and, I understand, are being followed. For example, there is a capacity for the parties interested in this particular case to confer with the Trade Practices Commission in respect of the draft determination and draft notice. I believe that this form of consultation will take place. 
It is also important to record that a large number of people have made representations to me. Those people include newsagents and members of Parliament on both sides of this House who have expressed great concern on behalf of their constituents. I am looking very closely at the position. I repeat that due processes are provided for within the legislation. First of all, there may be consultation with the Trade 
Practices Commission and, ultimately, when a final determination is made and if one or more of the parties disagrees with that determination, there is recourse to appeal to the Trade Practices Tribunal. However, notwithstanding that process, I am examining the matter in detail in the light of the representations that I have received from members of this House and from affected parties. 
I am, of course, aware that representations have been made by the industry. Indeed there has been consultation between the industry, the Minister for Industry and Commerce and me. The Industries Assistance Commission has reported to the Government and that report has been considered by the standing committee on industry assistance. In the very near future the report of that committee and the report of the IAC will be considered by the Government. At that time the representations that have been made by the industry and all other relevant factors will be considered very carefully by the Government. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill gives effect to the Government's decisions, which I announced on 18 October 1978, to make certain changes to the operations of the Prices Justification Tribunal. In my statement outlining those changes, I referred to the opportunity that had been given for views to be put to the Government on this matter and to the consultations I had held with the trade unions, business and other sections of the community before the Government took its decision. Those views were fully considered by the Government. 
The broad purpose of the Bill is to modify the operations of the PJT by reducing the emphasis on price notification and by broadening its inquiry function. The Bill replaces the present price notification requirements which are based upon the size of a company, with selective notification of price increases for a limited period by companies following public inquiry by the PJT. Companies which have been the subject of a public inquiry may be required to notify their price increases for up to 12 months at the discretion of the PJT or for a longer period if the Minister approves. This will enable the Tribunal to monitor a company's pricing behaviour closely following a public inquiry. In anticipation of these changes, and at my request following my statement of 18 October last, the Tribunal used its exemption powers to release prescribed companies from the notification procedures. Companies involved at that time in public inquiries were not exempted. 
The PJT will, in future, concentrate its resources in the areas of price surveillance and public inquiry. It is well equipped to carry out an ongoing surveillance role. The PJT will be able to draw upon its bank of information on the pricing behaviour of companies. The Tribunal will also utilise the regular channels of information such as representations by consumers and user industries, commercial information and official price indices and reports. Where necessary the PJT will also seek the co-operation of individual companies in providing particular pricing information. The Tribunal will retain its power to require any company to furnish information about its prices should this be necessary and will, therefore, be well placed to examine price movements and to maintain close surveillance over prices of particular significance to the economy. 
Arising from its surveillance of prices the PJT will be able, at any time, to recommend a public inquiry into any company or group of companies. Public inquiries will underpin the Tribunal's surveillance role and highlight areas needing further inquiry. Presently the Tribunal is limited in the course of its inquiries to determining whether prices charged or proposed to be charged by companies are justified. This function will remain. The Bill will allow the PJT to conduct public inquiries, which do not involve price justification. These inquiries will consider matters such as the structure of prices within industries and how they are established. 
Turning to the way in which inquiries will be conducted and the procedures associated with this, a pre-inquiry procedure will be established in respect of prices justification inquiries initiated by the PJT. This will allow the Tribunal to obtain basic information and consult with the company or companies concerned as well as with other interested parties to determine whether a prima facie case exists for a public inquiry. The decision whether to proceed to a public inquiry will be subject to approval by the Minister in respect of inquiries initiated by the PJT. The capacity which exists for the Minister to refer for public inquiry matters arising from wage increases outside the wage indexation guidelines and allegations of excessive prices will be maintained. However, it will be open to the Minister to confine a reference to the industries to be covered by an inquiry, in which case it will be for the Tribunal to select the companies to be taken to inquiry. 
The Bill amends the price freeze provisions of the Act to provide the Tribunal with a discretion to allow an interim price increase to a company under inquiry. The existing provisions are unduly restrictive and can prevent companies from recovering legitimate cost increases for up to 4 months in certain cases. These provisions will not apply in respect of inquiries initiated by the Minister which do not require the Tribunal to consider the justification of the prices under inquiry. Time limits for completion of inquiries by the PJT have been made more flexible by including provisions which allow the Minister to specify the time for completion of inquiries initiated by him, and which allow the Tribunal to extend the time for other inquiries with the consent of the company concerned. The Bill modifies the confidentiality provisions of the Act so that companies may claim confidentiality in respect of documents and submissions containing secret formulas or processes. If requested, the PJT will not disclose information which in its opinion would damage the competitive position of a company, unless the Tribunal considers it in the public interest to do so. A provision is included in the Bill to allow the Minister to issue general directions to the PJT as to any matter which should be given special consideration by it in the performance of its functions and the exercise of its powers. This provision will ensure that, notwithstanding its statutory independence to arrive at its own findings in particular cases, the Tribunal's operations will be placed within the framework of Government policy. 
The changes to the Prices Justification Act contained in this Bill demonstrate the Government's concern that in its operations the PJT should not add unduly to business costs or inhibit investment. At the same time they will ensure adequate surveillance of prices and improve the capacity of the PJT to inquire into prices that need to be examined. The PJT will be better equipped to conduct comprehensive inquiries, as the need arises, into pricing practices within industries as distinct from companies; inquiries which range beyond the narrow confines of prices justification. The Government intends that the Tribunal be employed in this role as a support where appropriate for its policies and, in particular, its anti-inflation strategy. In this regard the PJT will undertake a program of inquiries into prices within industries which are major component groups of the consumer price index, or which have a significant impact upon the level of prices in other industries. These inquiries will be broadly similar to the inquiry presently being held by the Tribunal into the processed foods industry. Apart from its price surveillance role, the PJT will carry out a valuable function of advising the Government on the structure of prices in key areas of the economy. I am confident that the business community will recognise the importance of this function and respond accordingly. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  raised this matter today. It is a matter that is, I think, of great concern to every member of this House. It is certainly a matter of great concern to every honourable member on this side of the House. It is a matter that is of great concern to the community. The Government has been active during the past few years in bringing to fruition discussions with the States that will lead to the introduction of uniform legislation throughout Australia to deal with the whole of the companies and securities industry. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith made reference in his opening remarks to the unfortunate collapse of Associated Securities Ltd and Computicket Australia Pty Ltd. This is of great concern nationally. Both companies are registered in New South Wales. I have no doubt that the corporate affairs administration within that State is presently investigating all aspects of the matter. 
However, the main thrust of the address given by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith centred upon the need for national companies and securities legislation. As I have just indicated, the Commonwealth Government is actively pursuing a course which will lead to this happening in Australia in, I believe, the not too distant future. The Commonwealth's approach to the regulation of the companies and securities industry should be viewed in the light of recent developments. In 1974, as mentioned by the honourable member, the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange, which has become known as the Rae Committee, reported that the regulation of these markets, and of some of the activities of public companies and investment funds, is in need of fundamental reform. The Rae Committee found that the securities market in Australia is a complex national market in which prices are set by national forces of supply and demand and that the present regulatory system in Australia is fragmented and uncoordinated. The Committee accordingly proposed a national system of regulation and recommended establishment by the Commonwealth Government of a new national regulatory authority. Subsequently, the then Labor Government prepared a National Companies Bill, which was not introduced into the Parliament, and a Corporations and Securities Industry Bill, which amongst other things would have established a corporations and exchange commission. The Corporations and Securities Industry BUI was with the Senate Select Committee for report when the Parliament was dissolved in November 1975. In August 1976 the Labor Opposition introduced a National Companies Bill and a Corporations and Securities BUI. 
The present Government's policy and approach has been essentially different from that of the Labor Government. Rather than legislative confrontation whereby the Commonwealth, without seeking the approval and co-operation of the States, legislates and awaits the outcome of inevitable High Court challenges to settle the full extent of the Commonwealth^ constitutional power, this Government has followed a policy of co-operative federalism. In March 1977 Commonwealth and State Ministers responsible for the regulation of companies and the securities industry agreed to a general framework for a cooperative Commonwealth-State scheme for national regulation of the entire area of company law and regulation of the securities industry. The basic elements of the proposed co-operative scheme were announced in this House on 17 March 1977 by my predecessor and have altered very little in substance since then. Those elements are: 
The establishment of a Ministerial Council comprising Ministers of the Commonwealth and each of the six States. 
The establishment of a National Companies and Securities Commission to have responsibility in the entire area subject to directions from the Ministerial Council. 
The continuation of existing State administrations. 
The adoption of a proposal for legislative uniformity which recognises that the States are not required to surrender or refer any constitutional power. This proposal includes the following: 
The Commonwealth will enact comprehensive corporation and securities legislation, in relation to the Australian Capital Territory, substantially in accordance with the uniform laws presently in force in New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland and Western Australia. 
Each of the States will enact legislation ensuring that the Commonwealth legislation has full force and effect in that State. 
The States will repeal or otherwise render inoperative existing companies and securities legislation from the commencement date of the Commonwealth legislation. 
This is the point that concerned the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith: 
Any future amendments to the legislation will be decided by the Ministerial Council, and then placed before the Commonwealth Parliament for approval. Once enacted those amendments will operate in each State without the need for further legislation. In the event of the Commonwealth Parliament not enacting, within 6 months, an amendment decided upon by the Ministerial Council, each State would have the right to separately take action to implement the decision of the Ministerial Council. 
After the March 1977 statement, further meetings of Ministers were held during 1978 to consider details of the scheme. The negotiations culminated in agreement being reached by Ministers on 1 December 1978 that a formal agreement between the Commonwealth and each State government to establish a national companies and securities scheme should be executed. The formal agreement was signed by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and all State Premiers and formally executed on 22 December 1978. The formal agreement essentially covers the following matters in relation to the scheme: The objectives and the operation of the scheme; the establishment of a Ministerial Council which will have complete control over the legislation and its administration; the operation of the National Companies and Securities Commission, which will be established by Commonwealth Act; the National Commission's relationship with existing State and Territory administrations; the legislative device which will ensure that the companies and securities industry legislation in force in the Australian Capital Territory at any time will also be the law in force in the six States; and a number of important issues which will be reflected in the substantive companies and securities industry legislation. 
While negotiations were proceeding to reach agreement at the political level, Ministers and officers have also been working on the legislative aspects of the scheme. As I have indicated, the initial legislation is to be substantially in accordance with the uniform laws presently in force in the four member States of the Interstate Corporate Affairs Commission- New South Wales, Victoria, Western Australia and Queensland. The general approach of Ministers has been that only urgent amendments should be included in the initial legislation and that other amendments of a law reform nature should wait until after the initial legislation has been enacted. Notwithstanding this, the proposed legislation in fact does incorporate a number of significant amendments. Many of the amendments reflect one of the basic concepts of the scheme- that a company should be able to carry on business anywhere in Australia as if it were subject to only one system of company law and administration. 
A great deal of progress has been made with the legislative package. In relation to the Company Take-overs (Australian Capital Territory) Bill, Ministers decided early in 1978 that urgent action needed to be taken to amend the existing laws relating to company takeovers. They agreed that these changes should be made as soon as possible, in advance of the implementation of the full scheme. Ministers accordingly released a draft of the above Bill for public comment on 12 December 1978. They emphasised that neither they nor their respective governments were to be regarded as endorsing all the details of the Bill. The final form of the Bill will be determined following a careful assessment of all comments made on it. Comments were requested to be submitted no later than 28 February 1979 and officers are now busy collating the comments received. When the proposed Companies Bill is enacted the Company Takeovers (Australian Capital Territory) Act will be repealed and its provisions will be contained in the former Bill. 
The National Companies and Securities Commission Bill when enacted will establish the National Companies and Securities Commission. On 23 February 1979 the Ministerial Council cleared the way for the final draft of the Bill to be prepared. I expect that the Bill will be introduced during the current autumn session of Parliament. Officers' consideration of the draft Securities Industry Bill is at an advanced stage and the Bill will shortly be presented to Ministers for consideration. It is expected that the Bill will be exposed to public comment prior to its introduction into the Commonwealth Parliament. It is possible that the Bill will be introduced in the 1979 Budget session but the timing is dependent upon a final decision by Ministers. The first drafts of the Companies Bill and the Companies (Fees) Bill were circulated to the States and Commonwealth departments last week. I expect that these Bills will be ready for exposure to the public later this year and I hope that they will be introduced into the Parliament during the autumn session of 1980. Another Bill yet to be drafted will be necessary to enable the scheme to be administered in the Australian Capital Territory. It will deal with the Australian Capital Territory Corporate Affairs Office and other transitional provisions that it would not be appropriate to include in the substantive companies and securities legislation. 
I have indicated by the information I have made available this afternoon to the House that a great deal of progress has been made. Some legislation is close to presentation to the Parliament and other legislation is in an advanced stage of drafting. There has been close cooperation between the Attorneys-General of the States and me and between the governments of the Commonwealth and the States. Tremendous co-operation has been given by members of the Government parties both in the House of Representives and in the Senate. I now seek an undertaking from the Opposition that it will cooperate with the Government in the national interest to ensure that this proposed legislation is properly considered and expeditiously dealt with in this Parliament. In this regard I offer to the Opposition the facilities of my Department to ensure that proper briefings are made. I believe that it is in the national interest that there be full co-operation between all the parties and all the interested bodies in order to ensure that this cooperative scheme which will operate throughout Australia will be brought into operation as quickly as possible. 
I move: 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Industries Assistance Commission on work trucks, certain mobile machines, et cetera. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Drug abuse is a major social problem in Australia at the present time. It is a matter which the Government has addressed as a high priority. The Bill I introduce today is the result of more than 18 months work on a tough, but in the view of the Government appropriate, law to attack the real source of the problem, that is the people who organise and profit from the drug trade. Most honourable members of this House, at one time or another, have had to concern themselves with some pathetic case of human deprivation brought about through the use of narcotic drugs. Tragically, more often than not, these cases involve the younger members of our community. This Bill is a tough law enforcement measure. It is not directed against the victims of the drug traffic for whom we all have the greatest sympathy and concern. Government programs in the health, education and welfare fields are actively seeking to assist these persons. However, there can be no sympathy for the distributors of illegal drugs- the persons who accumulate vast fortunes through this miserable trade and live like kings. 
Many of the measures included in this Bill are powerful weapons. The Government has taken the decision that they should be enacted, but only after it considered all possible alternatives. In the circumstances we believe there is no other choice. The drug trade is organised in an unscrupulous and a totally immoral fashion. Profit is the only consideration. To the participants the end always justifies the means. To fight this trade, and fight it within a democratic framework and within the rule of law, the Government needs special powers; powers that are not commonly accorded to law enforcement. This Bill will enable officers of Customs investigating drug offences to seek, in specified circumstances, a warrant for the use of a listening device to overhear personal conversations. These warrants will be available only when there is objective evidence or reason to believe that conversations being overheard relate to persons involved in or places being used for narcotics offences. In particular, the use of listening devices will be directed to investigatory efforts against the organisers of the drug trade. 
Until now, the backroom nature of the involvement of the organisers has made investigation, and subsequently proof in the courts, virtually impossible. These organisers have hitherto been substantially untouched by the law. The Government believes that by careful use of a power to authorise listening devices, investigators will be able to break down the walls currently protecting this inner circle. It is also one of the best methods available to safeguard the lives of officers engaged in the hazardous task of penetrating drug trafficking groups through undercover operations. Honourable members should have no doubt that the lives of these men are at risk. The authorisation of listening devices by this Bill is not new to Australian law. At the present time five States of Australia authorise the use of listening devices by warrant in major criminal investigations. Commonwealth narcotics investigators are presently able to be authorised in these States to use listening devices in relation to the investigation of drug offences. From time to time they have been granted such warrants and, I assure this House, with devastating effect. 
At the present time, the telephone is used in most major drug transactions in this country. These transmissions are currently immune from the law with the consequence that the telephone is a convenient, quick, secure and legally countenanced technique in the conduct of the drug trade. No more is that to be. The AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  is today introducing legislation in the Senate which will authorise, in carefully defined circumstances, the issue of a warrant for the interception of telephonic communications being used to facilitate the commission of drug offences. It is a matter of fact that officers of my Department investigating particular narcotic offences time and again have knowledge of telephone conversations by drug couriers with unidentified persons to whom those couriers report. The Government considers that its investigative resources would be much more penetrating if they could more easily identify these presently unidentified persons. 
As I stated earlier, the only consideration of drug traffickers is profit. The trade will continue to flourish while the law protects the property rights of traffickers derived from these profits. In 1977 the Government commenced to attack these profits. In that year this Parliament enacted a law providing for the forfeiture and seizure of certain limited categories of money and goods acquired from drug trafficking. This law has been helpful. In the last year drug enforcement officers have seized monies and goods involved in drug trafficking exceeding $lm in value. But, sadly, by comparison, this is mere pocket money. These criminals are highly sophisticated businessmen with the best possible legal advice. They do not hide their profits in a sock under the mattress; it goes into land, stocks and shares, options, negotiable instruments- in short, into all the instruments of modern commerce. 
As I have already indicated, the provisions this Parliament enacted in 1977 have had a significant impact. However, they are inadequate to deal with sophisticated asset accumulations. This was recognised when the legislation was enacted. I am now presenting to this Parliament a scheme designed to deal with sophisticated methods of disposing of the profits of illegal drug trafficking, a process often referred to as 'washing'. The BUI now before the House would enact a new division into Part XIII of the Customs Act entitled Recovery of Pecuniary Penalties for Dealing in Narcotic Goods'. The essential objective of this extremely complex proposed law is, through proper civil court proceedings, to empower the Federal Court of Australia to order against a person a pecuniary penalty equivalent to the benefit that person received from illegal trafficking in drugs. During this legal proceeding for a pecuniary penalty, it is apparent that there would be many opportunities for a defendant to dispose of any or all of his assets. 
Clearly, if the Government's intention to deprive persons of these assets is not to be thwarted, there must be laws preventing the dissipation of assets for the duration of the proceedings. Accordingly, this Bill contains provisions designed to freeze the assets of persons before the court until the completion of the substantive proceedings. The Government believes that the concept and detail of these measures have not been attempted in this form elsewhere in the world, although it should be noted that other countries have already started to move in this direction- in some cases with the active support and advice of the Australian Government. But the Government has not only been concerned with law enforcement powers. It has equally been concerned with deterrents. 
In 1977 penalties applicable to drug offences were substantially increased. That amendment increased the penalties for offences involving drugs other than cannabis leaf to a maximum fine of $100,000 and/or 25 years imprisonment. The penalty for offences involving cannabis leaf remained at a maximum fine of $4,000 and /or 10 years imprisonment. However, since these new penalties were enacted in 1977 a new phenomenon has emerged. Illegal drug importations in vast quantities, hitherto unknown in the Australian drug scene, have been detected. During 1978 several such importations were intercepted. Drugs valued at many millions of dollars- in one case approximately $70m- were involved. In the light of this development the Government considered that it must again, and urgently, review the scale of penalties for drug offences. 
This Bill introduces an additional penalty to deal with such large scale drug importations. It provides for a penalty relating to commercial' quantities of all types of illicit drugs- that is, a quantity of approximately one thousand times the amounts specified in the 1977 legislation as a traffickable quantity. The penalty for these offences is to be life imprisonment without the option of a fine. Life imprisonment without the option of a fine is also to be the required penalty for a second offence involving a traffickable quantity of drugs. 
Finally, this Bill seeks to tidy up several important technical matters that are now pressing. First, the Bill amends the present provisions of the Customs Act dealing with personal body searches to ensure that when an internal search is necessary, the responsibility for that search is placed solely in the hands of qualified medical practitioners. Secondly, the Bill provides for a specific offence of conspiracy in relation to drug offences. In addition to completing the natural armoury of offences in this area, the inclusion of this particular offence will significantly improve the investigatory powers relating to narcotics offences. 
Honourable members are aware that this Bill is only part of a much broader attack by the Government on the drug problem. In late 1977, in conjunction with four State governments, the Commonwealth Government appointed a royal commissioner to examine the drug problem in Australia. However, as I announced early last year, the Government was not going to await the findings of the royal commission before taking any positive initiatives. The royal commissioner,  Mr Justice  E. S. Williams, fully supported the Government in this approach. As part of the 
Government's present initiatives the personnel and equipment of the Federal Bureau of Narcotics has been substantially upgraded. Some SO additional narcotics investigators have been added to the Bureau in recent times. Additional Australian narcotics personnel have also been placed in key centres in South East Asia, with the permission and active co-operation of the host countries. Australia now has narcotics officers permanently based in Bangkok, Kuala Lumpur and Jakarta. In addition, our capacity for surveillance of the vast areas of the north and west of Australia is being significantly enhanced in an effort to intercept attempted drug smuggling into Australia through this region. To complement this surveillance, the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs has recently commissioned a sophisticated communications network providing land, sea and air units with direct contact with key strategic operation centres. 
This is a most important Bill in the fight against illegal drug trafficking. The Government makes no apology for its severity. We believe that drug trafficking in Australia has developed in such a bullish manner that we have no option but to face the menace head on, armed with a law enforcement capacity equal to the threat posed. I sincerely hope this Bill will receive the support of all members of this House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
It is a fact that the Government became concerned following the release of the Trade Practices Commission's draft determination on 5 February in relation to the system that deals with the distribution of newspapers and magazines. Honourable members will recall that the situation is that if that determination becomes a decision, the present system will cease to exist. This would provide a disadvantaged situation for the Australian public and also for the many small businessmen to whom the honourable member refers. Following the consideration of this matter the Government decided that I should call together the parties who were applicants to the Trade Practices Commission to see whether a revised scheme could be determined and agreed upon between them, one that the Government might be prepared to support before the Trade Practices Commission. 
During the past few days discussions have taken place between a senior official of my Department and representatives of the newsagents and publishers with a view to devising a revised scheme. Those discussions were successful and yesterday all of the parties, including the Government, reached agreement. This morning an official, on behalf of the Government, went before the Trade Practices Commission and indicated the Government's support for the revised scheme. It will be a matter for the Trade Practices Commission to determine. I do not want to say any more in relation to the matter that is before the Commission at present other than to indicate the reason for our intervention. Questions have been raised in relation to this matter and I want to make it clear to all members of the House and to the public generally that the Government regards the present efficient system of home deliveries and the general distribution of newspapers and magazines as representing a public benefit. For this reason we believe it was necessary, in the public interest, to intervene and we have intervened in the way I have indicated. I must say that there has been general support from both sides of the Parliament for the action the Government has taken. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Industries Assistance Commission on certain discontinuous yarns of polyester and polyester viscose by-laws. 
Pursuant to section 7 of the Advisory Council for Inter-Government Relations Act 1976 I present the annual report of the Advisory Council for Inter-Government Relations for the year ended 3 1 August 1978. 
Pursuant to section 30B of the Industries Assistance Commission Act 1973 I present a report by the Temporary Assistance Authority on dental alloys. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the ministerial statement concerning the Prices Justification Tribunal as they are associated matters. Separate questions will, of course, be put on the Bill and the motion to take note of the paper at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of this Bill and the paper to be discussed in this debate. 
in reply- During my second reading speech I covered the reasons why the Government has introduced this amending legislation. There is no need for me to go over all the points that I made at that time. However, I think it is necessary, in the light of some of the statements that have been made by members of the Opposition, to remind the House that the Government has decided to retain the Prices Justification Tribunal because it believes that it is necessary to have a price surveillance body in Australia. Contrary to what has been said by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and by other Opposition members, this will be a viable and useful body. In the area of price surveillance it will have much work to do in the interests of the Australian community and the Australian consumer in particular. As a matter of fact, when I listened to the Leader of the Opposition I gained the impression that he had not read the second reading speech, nor had he read the recent Press reports. He referred to a number of issues in relation to the petroleum industry which he felt ought to be looked at by a viable PJT. The matters to which the Leader of the Opposition referred have been looked at recently by the Prices Justification Tribunal. The Shell oil company currently is under inquiry by the PJT and the decisions that are taken by this particular inquiry will flow through to the whole of the oil industry. Either the Leader of the Opposition is ignorant of the present position in relation to this inquiry or, alternatively, he sought to mislead this House and the Australian community. 
I indicate again that this Government is determined to do what it can to ensure that Australian business is not overregulated in the interests of viable and profitable Australian business. Unless Australian business is profitable it is not going to be able to carry on and it is not going to have the capacity to employ people. Employment is a matter that is given a great deal of lip service by members of the Opposition. So we do need profitable business in the interests of the whole of Australia. I believe, and the Government believes, that overregulation in this area can be costly to business and, as a result, costly to the consumer and costly to the public. That is why we have sought, on the one hand, to retain a viable price surveillance body and, on the other, to ensure that the cost to business and through business to the community of having this body is kept to an absolute minimum. 
During the debate the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  directed a couple of questions to me. The first question was in relation to the type of general directions that the Minister might give to the Prices Justification Tribunal from time to time in relation to the need for that Tribunal to give special consideration in its performance or functions. The honourable member for Lilley postulated some areas in which these directions might be given. The examples he gave were proper examples, but I give one or two more. It is possible that the Minister will find it necessary in the future to indicate to the Prices Justification Tribunal government policy in relation to the need to restore the profitability of an industry. It may be necessary for the Minister to indicate government policy in relation to the restructuring through tariff or some other form of assistance, of a particular industry. It may be necessary also for the Minister to indicate policy aspects concerning wages. For example in 1977, as the Minister responsible for the prices justification legislation, I approached the PJT and asked it to ensure that costs incurred by companies outside wage indexation guidelines were not passed on in prices. 
The honourable member for Lilley also asked me a question in relation to the following statement in my second reading speech:   the PJT will undertake a program of inquiries into prices within industries which are major component groups of the consumer price index, or which have a significant impact upon the level of prices in other industries. 
As I recall what the honourable member for Lilley said, he was concerned to know why the Government intended that the PJT would undertake such a program. The reason is that these areas are important price areas for the whole of the community and the Government believes that they should be looked at by the Prices Justification Tribunal. It is the Government's intention to bring this matter to the attention of the PJT as soon as this legislation has been proclaimed. 
The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Humphreys)  and, I think, the Leader of the Opposition made reference to a former member of the PJT,  Mr Michael  Long. It was asserted by the honourable member for Griffith that  Mr Long  had been sacked by the Government. I regard that assertion as offensive to  Mr Long.  I am sorry that the honourable member for Griffith is not in the House now because I believe that his remarks, implying that  Mr Long  had been sacked, were quite offensive to that former member of the PJT. He served the Commonwealth for a period of five years as a member of that Tribunal. The fact of the matter is that his five-year appointment expired and he has not been reappointed by the Government. The Government has looked at the structure of the PJT and, as is well known,  Mr Conron  has recently been appointed  Chairman  and, in the near future, two other members will be appointed to the Tribunal. That will give a total of five members, with the two members who have served for some time and who will be continuing in their posts. 
The Government's aim was to provide a capacity for some members who had had a period of service to remain with the PJT and, at the same time, to be able to bring in from outside new people with new ideas and a fresh approach to the activity. Members of this House will recall that when the terms of several members of the Industries Assistance Commission expired recently the Government adopted the same policy; namely, to ensure, from the point of view of continuity and from the point of view of retaining experience, that some members of the IAC who had served for a period of years were reappointed and that a capacity was reserved to allow new members to be appointed to the IAC. This matter has received long and careful consideration by the Government. The measure before the House is in the best interests of the community. It will ensure that there is a price surveillance body, well equipped and capable of keeping price movements within the community under surveillance and of recommending appropriate action to the Government. The amendment which has been moved by the Opposition will be opposed by the Government. I reaffirm the support for the Bill which I gave during my second reading speech. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Motion (by  Mr Fife,  on behalf of  Mr Sinclair)  agreed to: 
That this Bill be referred to a legislation committee for report by 29 March 1979. 
The matters raised by the Leader of the Opposition concerning ASL fall within the purview of responsibility of the New South Wales Government. The New South Wales Attorney-General is the Minister responsible for the State Corporate Affairs Commission. It is on public record that the Corporate Affairs Commission in New South Wales is conducting certain investigations into the whole matter, particularly the specific points raised by the Leader of the Opposition. The honourable member asked what action the Commonwealth is taking. I would have thought that the Leader of the Opposition, and indeed all honourable members, would know that this Government is proceeding as rapidly as possible towards the implementation of a uniform scheme for the control of the whole area of companies in the securities industry. One vital piece of legislation that is necessary in this whole scheme is required to establish the Commission. Under the terms of the agreement between the Australian Government and the State governments entered into on 22 December last, the Commonwealth has agreed not to proceed with this legislation until all parties to the agreement have signified their support. At this moment all States in the Commonwealth with the exception of New South Wales have indicated that we may proceed with the legislation. The Commonwealth is ready to proceed as soon as the New South Wales Government gives it the go ahead. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following Government Departments have procedures concerned with monitoring or controlling the importation into Australia of equipment, technology, chemical or pharmaceutical preparations or formulations which may be hazardous from the points of view of safety, health and environmental impact. 
The Departments of Administrative Services, Business and Consumer Affairs, Defence, Health, Housing and Construction, National Development, Post and Telecommunications, Primary Industry, Science and the Environment, Transport and Veterans ' Affairs. 
Some of these Departments also have arrangements for liaison and consultation with overseas organisations, appropriate overseas authorities and State authorities on these matters. 
Each of these Departments has provided information in response to the honourable member's question and these replies are listed under each Department. In so far as my Department is concerned the answers are as follows: 
Question 1- Section 62 and 63 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 and the Customs (Prohibited Imports) Regulations made under the Customs Act provide a means by which controls are exercised by this Department over the supply and importation of goods which may be hazardous from the points of view of safety, health and environmental impact. 
Under the Trade Practices Act the Minister is empowered to declare a ban on goods which are considered to be unsafe and, in addition, to declare mandatory consumer product safety and information standards. The Minister is also empowered to declare as prohibited imports goods which are, in his opinion, of a dangerous character and a menace to the community. Advice is provided to the Minister by the Commonwealth/State Consumer Product Advisory Committee (CSCPAC) which in turn, consults with the Bureau of Customs, other Commonwealth and State Departments and Instrumentalities and representatives from industry and consumer organisations. 
The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs also administers, under the Customs (Prohibited Imports) 
Regulations, specific regulations covering other potentially hazardous goods which are required to meet certain standards or to be used only for certain purposes. 
There are also other regulations under the Customs Act which require importers to obtain permission to import from other Ministers and Departments as a guard against the introduction of hazardous substances. One of the most important restrictions in the Regulations are the Department of Health's controls over the importation of therapeutic goods and appliances. 
Question 2- The Department of Business and Consumer Affairs obtains information from a number of sources in order to be aware as far as possible of regulations or prohibited imports by foreign Governments on the use of this equipment, technology, preparations or formulations. Australian representatives overseas including Bureau of Customs officers regularly report on such matters and, in addition, information is obtained directly from several foreign Government organisations which are concerned with safety such as the US Product Safety Commission, the Canadian Department of Consumer and Corporate Affairs and the British Department of Trade and Industry. Information is also obtained from international organisations such as the OECD. 
Question 3- Consultations between Commonwealth and State authorities take place under arrangements instituted by the Commonwealth /State Consumer Affairs Ministers meetings, the Commonwealth/State Consumer Products Advisory Committee and between officers of the Bureau of Customs and the Trade Practices Commission in the State Offices who liaise with officials of the various Consumer Affairs authorities in the States. 
Information supplied by other Departments is as follows: 
The matters raised by the honourable member for Griffith are matters for inquiry, firstly by the Trade Practices Commission. I have taken note of the detail of the honourable member's question. I will seek the advice of the Trade Practices Commission and, as soon as possible, I will let him and the House know the position. I make one substantive comment at this stage: I would be reluctant to give serious consideration to the honourable member's request for retrospective legislation in relation to the Trade Practices Commission. 
It is a fact that the present temporary assistance of 65 per cent duty will expire on 31 March this year. The Government is extremely concerned about this industry and, in particular, about the representations that have been made by industry leaders. During the past few months the Minister for Primary Industry and I have had a number of discussions with representatives of that industry and we have given serious thought to the recommendations that have been made by the Industries Assistance Commission. The present position is that the Minister for Primary Industry and I have completed a submission for Cabinet and it is currently being considered. I can give the honourable member and the House an assurance that a decision will be taken by the Government before 31 March 1979. 
The speech by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  this afternoon and the statement by the Premier of New South Wales last week indicating that a 37V4 hour week is to be introduced into the New South Wales power industry have signalled the fact that the big push for a shorter working week throughout Australia is on again. This time it has been initiated by no other person than the Premier of New South Wales, a person who has been portrayed by the Labor Party over recent years as being a moderate, as being responsible. 
in reply- The decision taken and announced by the New South Wales Government last week to introduce a 37Vi hour week into the electricity industry of that State signals, of course, the start of the big push throughout Australia for a shorter working week. It is under way again. This is not the first time that Labor governments have moved in this field unilaterally and outside the industrial courts of the country. As in the past, this decision, taken at the political level, will lead to a flow-on, a push from other unions, for a shorter working week. There is no way that the New South Wales Government will be able to quarantine its decision. I suggest that there is no way that the New South Wales Government wants to quarantine its decision. 
A great deal has been said during this debate about the Premier of New South Wales. He has been referred to as Premier Wran of New South Wales. I refer to Neville Wran, Q.C., who appeared in 1973 for the unions on whose behalf he is now acting. As the legal representative for the unions concerned he put the same arguments for a shorter working week but he failed to convince the Industrial Commission of New South Wales that the power industry should as a separate case be granted what was then sought- a 35 hour week. He failed then as a lawyer to convince the Industrial Commission. He has now moved in as a politician and used political power to grant what he was unable to achieve fairly in the courts of his own State. The decision taken by the New South Wales Government is irresponsible. Economically it is potentially disastrous for Australia. The announced decision affects a selected group of employees but I suggest that there Will be a flow-on. A political decision, which subverts the industrial decision making process in New South Wales, has been taken by the New South Wales Government. The New 
South Wales Government's action in this matter is contrary to the industrial and economic evidence so far presented for a shorter working week. 
In New South Wales there have been no fewer than three court hearings to date to arbitrate on the issue. Two have been dismissed out of hand. The third has been adjourned by the court since early last year. Why has not the New South Wales Government appeared before the court again and tested the strength and validity of its arguments? Is it afraid that it will fail in the same way as Neville Wran, Q.C. failed in 1973? As I said, this is not a new move. It is the start of another move to bring about generally a shorter working week in Australia. The claim for a 35-hour week by Electricity Commission workers employed on a 40-hour week basis was for some years appended to the usual log of claims submitted on behalf of employees. In 1970 the 35-hour week issue came into prominence with statements by the Australian Council of Trade Unions and in turn the New South Wales Trades and Labour Council that the union movement would seek a 3 5 -hour week in certain industries, including the power industry, as a spearhead for the introduction of a 35-hour week generally. I emphasise the word 'spearhead'. That is not my word; it was the word used by the New South Wales Trades and Labour Council. 
Although there have been many statements during the past 10 years to the effect that there are special grounds for a 3 5 -hour week in the electricity supply industry, there is no doubt that the campaign is designed to secure a breakthrough for industry generally. Until now it has been resisted bearing in mind the severe inflationary consequences. On 17 June 1971, the then Minister for Labour and Industry in the New South Wales Government referred the matter to the State Industrial Commission to report whether there were any grounds for a reduction of hours in the electricity supply industry, which involves the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity. The inquiry was conducted by a full bench of the New South Wales Industrial Commission which carried out a comprehensive review of the industry, that is, the generation and transmission of power by the New South Wales Electricity Commission and its distribution by the county councils. The Industrial Commission found that there were no grounds for the reduction of working hours for the employees in the electricity supply industry who worked a 40-hour week. 
I was then the Minister for Mines and Power in New South Wales. My recollection is clear in relation to what occurred at that time. The Industrial Commission reported to the then New South Wales Government on 5 February 1973. Almost immediately afterwards bans and restrictions were placed on essential repair and maintenance work at power stations, causing great inconvenience to the residents of New South Wales. At a conference with the then Premier,  Sir Robert  Askin, the Trades and Labour Council put forward submissions to the effect that the first report of the Industrial Commission had covered the whole of the electricity supply industry, whereas it considered that the inquiry should have been limited to the power generation industry. Following this conference, the New South Wales Government which was prepared to arbitrate with these people and to sit down and talk to them to try to solve the problem in an amicable way undertook to refer the matter again to the Industrial Commission for further report. This time an inquiry was conducted into whether there were grounds for the reduction of hours for employees of the Electricity Commission alone who worked a 40-hour week. 
The New South Wales Government at that time also stated that it would give effect to any recommendation that the Industrial Commission might make to its Minister. That Government was prepared to accept the umpire's decision: The union, of course, would not give the same undertaking. The second inquiry was conducted by the same three judges and the Commission reported to the Minister on 24 September 1973 that the conclusions reached in its first inquiry were not altered as a result of its considerations being confined to the New South Wales Electricity Commission. Following the Commission's second report, there was an intensification of industrial action which spread to the Snowy Mountains area when the then Commonwealth Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Rex  Connor, in this House and on behalf of the then Labor Commonwealth Government gave a directive to the Snowy Mountains Council that the Tumut power station, manned by New South Wales employees, should be operated in a manner which did not run counter to the intentions of the selfstyled, self-appointed, 35-hour week committee. So that is how these people act when they are in government. 
It is claimed by the New South Wales Government now, in 1979, that the State Electricity Commission can afford a 3716-hour week without increasing electricity charges to consumers because of its high productivity. I doubt the validity of that statement, but if it is true, if this shorter working week can be passed on to employees without added cost, then I say to the New South Wales Government: 'You ought to reduce the cost of electricity to consumers rather than reduce the hours of work of employees in the Electricity Commission of New South Wales'. The Electricity Commission of New South Wales is a huge investment and it is one that belongs to the people. It does not belong to the Government, nor does it belong to the employees of the Electricity Commission. Any benefits that flow from this investment of course in the first instance should be passed on to consumers. 
I said that I doubted the validity of the statement that the Commission could afford a 37!-hour week for its employees. Evidence was presented to the 1973 inquiry that the added cost to the Commission of a four-day, 35-hour week would be $ 10.1m in the first year and $5.6m per annum in subsequent years. But those are 1973 figures and taking into account the period of Labor inflation from 1973 to 1975, the amount expressed in 1979 figures would be more than double that amount. These were the estimated costs to the Electricity Commission alone. At the second inquiry the Industrial Commission made it clear that in its opinion one would be burying one's head in the sand to assume that a 35-hour week to Electricity Commission employees would not flow on to the county councils and other industries in the State. Taking the Commission and the councils as a single industry, the added cost of a 35-hour week in 1973 would have been $2 1.9m in the first year and $ 17.4m per annum in subsequent years. The Commission rejected the view that employees in the industry were entitled to reduced working hours because of increased productivity. The Commission commented that: 
Technology ... is the real cause of the improvements which have occurred. 
It noted that large sums of public money had been invested in the Electricity Commission to ensure that electricity was produced at the lowest possible cost. It also pointed out that the resultant benefits belonged to the community as a whole and should be shared by the community in the form of lower electricity tariffs. In the Commission's opinion, to accept the productivity claim would involve the rest of the community in subsidising each employee of the Electricity Commission by $1,060 per annum- again I remind the House that those are 1973 figures- for a four-day, 35-hour week. Such a subsidy would, the Commission said, be unfair to the community and should not be allowed to come about. 
I said earlier that there was no way in which this decision by the New South Wales Government could be contained. There will be flow-on effects, there will be added costs, and there will be higher inflation as a result of the decision. It is in the area of economic dislocation that the decision made on Thursday of last week merits the severest possible condemnation. The Premier of New South Wales denies that flow-on effects will occur. He is not prepared to submit that opinion to industrial judgment. If he is so confident of his grounds, let him state them before the State Industrial Commission in his own State and see what that Commission says. In 1973 the New South Wales Industrial Commission came to this very definite conclusion about the possibility of flow-on effects: 
We therefore conclude that from a reduction of hours in the electricity supply industry, there would be two general economic effects apart from the direct consequences of additional expenditure to be incurred by the industry and the increases in prices flowing to the community therefrom. 
These are that there would almost certainly be other areas of industry where a (33) hour week would be sought, in some cases successfully. This would further increase prices and costs in the community but to what extent we cannot say. 
Moreover there would, for the reasons we have mentioned, be a resistance by employers to the demands which would be made. These would unquestionably lead to stoppages of work, some of which would be quite expensive and costly to the community. 
So much for the good industrial relations that the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  said that the Government of New South Wales and the Government of the Commonwealth should be fostering. 
The decision taken by the Government of New South Wales to introduce a 37Vi-hour week is a retrograde step which will add to the general community costs. It will tend to send inflation on an upward spiral. It will be only the economic policies of this Government that will contain the situation and prevent that from happening. The Government of New South Wales has not cooperated in the national interests so far as the economy is concerned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The question raised by the honourable member for Diamond Valley appears to be based on a case that is presently before the Federal Court of Australia. In the circumstances I do not propose to make any reference to that matter. The National Football League of Australia and the Victorian Football League have both made representations to me regarding this matter and I have agreed to receive a deputation. It has also been put to me that this Parliament, when legislating in the trade practices area, did not intend that the sporting activities of Australia would be caught up by this legislation. I was not a member of this Parliament when this legislation was considered, so I am unable to comment on that proposition. I propose to ask my department to look closely at the records of the debates that took place at the time to see whether there is any evidence to suggest that the Parliament intended that sporting bodies should be caught up by the provisions of the Trade Practices Act. I also propose to have discussions with my colleague the Minister for Home Affairs, who is the Minister responsible for sport, to see what his attitude is in relation to the proposition that the Act be amended to exclude sporting bodies. I am unable to say what will result from these discussions but I indicate to the House that I take the representations seriously and I will carefully examine them. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report of the Industries Assistance Commission on the Australian Citrus Industry. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to amend the Bed Sheeting Bounty Act 1977 to increase the limit on the amount of available bounty to $600,000 in each 12 month period from 1 November 1977 and to revise, from 27 September 1978, the eligibility criteria in respect of bountiable sheeting to enable either the manufacturer thereof or another person to make up such sheeting into bed linen in Australia. The Bill reflects acceptance by the Government of recommendations by the Industries Assistance Commission contained in its reports on 'Further Short Term Assistance Arrangements For Textiles' (No. 147 of 25 October 1977) and 'Conditions For Eligibility For Bed Sheeting Bounty' (No. 179 of 7 August 1978). The measures contained in the Bill are designed to enable Australian manufacturers to compete more effectively against duty-free imported sheeting fabric. 
The increase to $600,000 in the amount of available bounty is being made as a result of changes in the market which have increased the Australian manufacturers dependence upon polyester/cotton sheeting. The revised eligibility criteria will enable Australian manufacturers to obtain maximum utilisation of the available bounty. I commend the Bill to Honourable Members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
Both the honourable members for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  and the honourable members for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  have had a good deal to say about the workings of the legislation committee and the fact that this piece of legislation was referred to a legislation committee. I think the House needs to be reminded, particularly those two honourable members, that it needs only one member of this House to object and a piece of legislation will not be referred to a legislation committee. In this case my advice is that the Opposition requested that the Bill be referred to a legislation committee. I agree with the point that was made by the honourable member for Adelaide that whether we reach agreement in committee or not is one matter and the time of this House that is saved is another. 
Given that the amendments moved by the Opposition were in conflict with the philosophy upon which the Government based this particular Bill, it is little wonder that all of the amendments proposed by the Opposition were opposed by the Government. The public record of the Committee meeting shows that we not only opposed, but also in most instances we strongly opposed the amendments that were moved by the Opposition. Had those amendments been moved in the Committee of the Whole, they would have been just as vigorously opposed by the Government as they were in the Legislation Committee. 
I do not propose to go over all of the reasons for the Government's opposition to the amendments that were moved. I think that nine amendments were moved by the Opposition. All of the reasons for our opposition to those amendments are on the public record; they are contained in the  Hansard  report of the Legislation Committee meeting. But I emphasise that those amendments moved by the Opposition flew in the face of the philosophy embodied in the legislation which I outlined very clearly at the second reading stage. 
Honourable members will recall that I indicated that the Government had decided quite deliberately to retain the Prices Justification Tribunal, and honourable members will recall that I said that the Government believes that an effective Prices Justification Tribunal is absolutely necessary. Additionally, I comment on the statements made by both the honourable member for Adelaide and the honourable member for Chifley in relation to the removal of teeth from the legislation. No teeth have been removed from the Prices Justification Tribunal legislation. The functions of the PJT have been altered in some way but none of its teeth have been removed. 
The Government has become increasingly concerned over a period about the costs of operating the Prices Justification Tribunal and the costs that the PJT's operations up to the present time have represented to business and ultimately to the consumer. I put emphasis on that point because costs to business ultimately become costs to the consumer. It was because of this that the Government decided that further changes should be made in the operations of the PJT in the interests of freeing the business community from unnecessary regulation and in the interest of ensuring that no unnecessary costs were incurred that would ultimately flow on to the consuming public. 
The proposed changes to the Bill which is currently before the House will further reduce the emphasis on price notification in the PJT's operations. That is one of the reasons that the Government opposed the amendments moved by the Opposition. Whilst the emphasis on price notification will be reduced, we have maintained in the Bill a capacity for the PJT to inquire into and to keep under surveillance prices in specified areas. The present system of prior notification of price increases by companies imposes, in our view, a regulatory cost on business which is disproportionate to the advantages that it provides. 
The Government is proposing, therefore, with regard to the legislation that is before the House, to remove the requirement for companies prescribed on the basis of turnover to notify their price increases to the PJT. We believe, however, that there is a real value in retaining a modified form of price notification to ensure adequate price surveillance for goods and services that have been subject to inquiry by the PJT. The Bill provides for just that. The Government believes that the notification provisions should be applied only for a limited period in cases where the PJT, following a public inquiry, decides that particular companies or groups of companies should be so required. 
The honourable member for Adelaide made reference to the need for more inquiries to be held. He made reference to the need for the Prices Justification Tribunal to have power to examine existing prices as well as proposed increased prices. He indicated the difficulty in his view that arises when existing prices only are investigated. I just remind the honourable member for Adelaide that the PJT has always had power to examine existing prices as well as proposed increases in prices. 
I also take the opportunity of reminding the Opposition that the present Government- the Fraser Government- which is so maligned by the Opposition has initiated no fewer than six price justification inquiries and two industry type inquiries. I refer to the beef inquiry and the processed food inquiry. I asked the Opposition how many inquiries were initiated by it when in Government. The fact of the matter is that the former Government did not initiate any inquiries by the PJT. The amendments moved by the Opposition were very carefully examined by the Government and by the Legislation Committee. I support my motion for the adoption of the report of that Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As indicated in my reply to Question No. 1299, the Narcotics Bureau pays rewards for information relating to the suppression of the illicit drug trade. In some instances the amounts paid are quite substantial. 
It has not been the policy to publicly disclose any details of these payments. 
I am able to inform the honourable member for Isaacs, and all honourable members, that oil industry pricing will continue to be monitored by the Prices Justification Tribunal. Of course, honourable members are aware that recently this House adopted amendments that were proposed by the Government in relation to the Prices Justification Act. Those amendments will be soon dealt with in another place. 
I am not able to indicate to the honourable member or the House at this stage the precise way in which oil industry pricing will be monitored, but I do give a clear and unequivocal undertaking that the Prices Justification Tribunal will be heavily involved in this field. I am concerned that the oil industry be subjected to monitoring in this way, but I am also concerned that the industry be not subjected to monitoring by the Prices Justification Tribunal and perhaps by one or more of the Australian States. I believe that there should be some means worked out between the Commonwealth and the States which are acceptable to all of the governments and which will ensure that pricing policies of these companies are monitored in a manner satisfactory to the consumer. 
With this in mind I propose to discuss the matter with the State Ministers concerned with representatives of consumer groups, with representatives of retailing organisations within the petroleum industry and with representatives of the oil companies themselves. I am hopeful that within a short time I will be in a position to announce the precise way in which oil prices will be monitored by the PJT in the future. 
I will be pleased to look carefully at the matters raised by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. I will give him a considered reply as soon as possible. 
For the information of honourable members I present reports by the Industries Assistance Commission on: short term assistance to non-adjustable spanners; tyres, tyre cases, et cetera; and vegetable oils and fats: animal oils and fats, et cetera. 
I move: 
Customs TariffProposalsNos. 14and 15(1979). 
Excise TariffProposals No. 3 (1979). 
The Tariff proposals I have just tabled relate to proposed alterations to the Customs Tariff Act 1966 and the Excise Tariff Act 1921. The changes contained in Proposals No. 14 are of an administrative nature only. They are designed to facilitate the administration of tariff quotas which have been introduced from 1 March 1979 on imports of certain wool and wool blend fabrics. Quotas which have been introduced as imports have exceeded specified trigger levels for three consecutive months. The quota levels and rates of duty to apply were announced by the Government in November 1977 following a report by the Industries Assistance Commission. 
Proposals No. 14 also contains a change to Schedule 2 to the Customs Tariff Act 1966. A new item has been inserted to provide for the duty free entry of goods, other than alcoholic liquors or tobacco products that, at the time they are entered for home consumption, are owned by certain authorities or bodies established for a purpose of the Commonwealth by or under an Act of the Commonwealth. Excise Tariff Proposals No. 3 contains the necessary complementary change to the Excise Tariff Act 1921. This action formalises the arrangements which operate at present permitting duty free importation of goods intended for the use of certain statutory authorities. This is an interim measure pending examination by the Government on the question of which, if any, authorities should receive exemption from payment of customs or excise duties. 
Proposals No. 15 implements the Government's decision on recommendations made by the Industries Assistance Commission in its reports on tyres, tyre cases, et cetera; and vegetable oils and fats; animal oils and fats, et cetera. The major effect of the decision in respect of tyres is that aircraft tyres and motor car cross-ply tyres will be dutiable at 25 per cent; motor car radial ply tyres and tyres for trucks, trailers and omnibuses will continue to be dutiable at a rate of 40 per cent until the end of this year, when the rate will phase to 35 per cent. From 1 January 1 98 1 the rate will be 30 per cent, phasing to the long term rate of 25 per cent from 1 January 1982. 
The decision on vegetable and animal oils and fats means that most of the goods covered by the Commission's inquiry will be duty free. Exceptions include polyunsaturated margarine which will be dutiable at 20 per cent; and epoxidised vegetable oils which will be dutiable at 25 per cent. The new duties operate from tomorrow. A comprehensive summary of the changes contained in Proposals No. 15 has been prepared and is being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Proposals to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
-The Leader of the Opposition raises a number of questions in relation to petrol pricing in Australia. I preface my reply to him by saying that no industry in Australia has been subjected to more price inquiries than have the oil industries. The oil industry at present is subject to a wide-ranging inquiry following a notification by the Shell oil company. The inquiry has been conducted over a long period. I anticipate that within the next week or so the Prices Justification Tribunal will make public the decisions following that inquiry. I feel sure that most of the matters which have been raised by the Leader of the Opposition have been canvassed before the Prices Justification Tribunal in the course of the Shell inquiry. I anticipate that the PJT will address itself to those issues in its report. 
Regarding the specific question raised by the Leader of the Opposition in relation to notification, I did advise the House, in response to another question a day or so ago, that the oil industry will be subjected to continual monitoring by the PJT after the amending legislation has passed through all stages of this Parliament and has received royal assent. I said on that occasion that I had not determined in what way the oil industry would be subjected to monitoring by the PJT but that I would discuss the matter with the State Ministers concerned with pricing. I believe that it is not in the best interests of the industry, nor the consuming public, for the industry to be subjected to inquiry in a number of places. In other words, I believe that if the Prices Justification Tribunal is to have this responsibility, the industry should not be subjected to similar inquiry by State Ministers concerned with prices. 
This morning I discussed the matter briefly with the New South Wales Minister for Consumer Affairs,  Mr Einfeld,  because I want to raise the matter tomorrow in Sydney at a meeting of State Ministers responsible for consumer affairs. The matter will be discussed tomorrow at the meeting of Ministers and I hope that within a short time it will be possible to indicate to the Leader of the Opposition and to the House the precise way in which in the future the oil companies will be subjected to PJT scrutiny. I also reiterate what I said on Tuesday when I answered a similar question. I said that I propose to have discussions with representatives of the oil industry, consumer groups and the retail section of the industry. The meeting with oil industry representatives will take place today. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to give effect to the Government's decision to provide assistance to the manufacture in Australia of certain types of paper. Following advice and recommendation from the Industries Assistance Commission in its report No. 183 of 17 October 1978 entitled 'Certain Paper and Paperboard', it has been decided to accord assistance by way of a scheme providing for the payment of bounty to eligible Australian manufacturers. Bounty is to be payable at the rate of $90 per tonne on specified coated paper and $70 per tonne on specified uncoated paper which, during the period to which the Act applies, is produced and sold for use in Australia in the manufacture of certain printed matter excluding newspapers and telephone directories. The scheme will operate from 6 February 1979 until 5 February 1987. 
It is considered by the Government that the proposed bounty assistance to be provided to this valuable and important local industry will lead to improved capacity utilisation, increased employment and maintenance of stable prices to paper-using industries. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Innes)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to give effect to the Government's decision to provide assistance to the manufacture in Australia of self-propelled pedestrian operated rotary cultivators, hoes and tillers. Following advice and recommendation from the Industries Assistance Commission in its interim report No. 190 of 6 December 1978 entitled 'Certain engines not exceeding 7.46 kW; rotary cultivators; and tractors, having a power of less than 15 kW', it has been decided to accord assistance by way of a scheme providing for the payment of bounty to eligible Australian manufacturers. Bounty is to be payable at the rate of $40 per kilowatt of power output of the engine incorporated in the prime mover of a rotary cultivator, hoe or tiller which has an Australian content of not less than 60 per cent and which, during the period to which the Act applies, is manufactured and sold for use in Australia. 
The scheme will operate from 5 February 1979 until implementation by the Government of its decision on the Industries Assistance Commission's final report which is expected early in October this year. The assistance provided by the scheme will have the effect of maintaining employment in the industry while at the same time enabling manufacturers of rotary cultivators, hoes and tillers to keep the prices of their products at levels competitive with those at which imported products are marketed. For these reasons, I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Innes)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Industries Assistance Commission (LAC) is the body best placed to make such calculations. Figures provided by the LAC are shown below, but are subject to certain qualifications. 
The estimated net subsidy equivalent per employee for passenger motor vehicles applies to the manufacture of the vehicles themselves, not brought in components. The figure takes into account the market sharing arrangements for these vehicles, but takes no account of the local content plans. 
The estimate provided for motor vehicle accessories relates to Class 3213 of the Australian Standard Industrial Classification, Motor vehicle instruments and electrical equipment n.e.c. 
Subject to the above qualifications, the table below sets out the net subsidy equivalents, the amount of money that would have to be paid in order to provide assistance equivalent to tariff protection to the industries in question in 1975-76. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (I), (2) and (3) Yes but only from countries which are members of the International Whaling Commission. 
Details of imported whale products or of the use of such products are not readily available. However the Report of the Independent Inquiry into Whales and Whaling conducted by the Honourable  Sir Sydney  Frost includes some information about such matters. 
The report was tabled in Parliament on 20 February 1979 and I invite the honourable member's attention in particular to Chapter 7 and Appendix 1 3 of that report. 
The Government's future policy on whales and whaling was announced in a Statement made by the Right Honourable the Prime Minister in the House of Representatives on 4 April 1979. 
As part of that policy the importation into Australia of all whale products and goods containing them will be banned from 1 January 1981. 
Pursuant to section 35a of the Prices Justification Act 1973, I present the Prices Justification Tribunal half-yearly report for the six months ended 3 1 December 1978. 
For the information of honourable members I present reports of the Industries Assistance Commission on: 
Chokes and ballasts (developing country preferences); 
C-zero cassettes (developing country preferences); and 
Nuts, bolts and screws. 
I move: 
Excise TariffProposals No. 4 ( 1 979 ). 
Excise Tariff Proposals No. 4 (1979) which I have just tabled implement the Government's decision announced by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  on naturally occurring liquefied petroleum gas. Excise duty on naturally occurring LPG is increased from $13 per kilolitre to $14 per kilolitre- a rise of $1 per kilolitre. The new duties will operate on and from tomorrow, 3 May 1979. I commend the Proposals. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Appropriation Bill (No. 4) 1978-79 as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The  Four Corners  program referred to by the honourable member was screened on 2 1 and 22 April 1 979. The program highlighted a report that there is a link between fluoridation of water and cancer. The general tone of the program screened by  Four Corners  was critical of fluoridation, although it purported to present what was regarded as a balanced view. The criticism was unfortunate because fluoridation has been accepted widely as a safe, effective and economical means of controlling dental decay. I think it is fair to say that few health measures have been subjected to such intense investigation as has the fluoridation of water. The claim of recent evidence suggesting a link between fluoridation and cancer has been rejected categorically by the United States National Cancer Institute and other international authorities. It has been refuted in a recent report of a detailed study of no fewer than 46 United States cities, undertaken by the Centre for Disease Control. The World Health Assembly, which is the governing body of the 
World Health Organisation, also has actively supported the fluoridation of public water supplies, and in May 1978 once again endorsed fluoridation and urged countries to develop programs. In addition, the National Health and Medical Research Council first recommended the introduction of fluoridation in 1952 and has reaffirmed that recommendation on many occasions. For the benefit of the honourable member and the public, I repeat that fluoridation has been accepted widely as a safe, effective and economical means of controlling dental decay. The Commonwealth Government supports the fluoridation of water supplies and introduced it years ago in the Territories under its control. So far as the States of Australia are concerned, the decision is one for the individual States. 
I will take note of the question that has been asked by the honourable member and furnish him with a detailed reply. 
For the information of honourable members I present a study of certain developments in the regulation of petroleum marketing in the United States. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)-  by leave- agreed to: 
That this House, in accordance with the provisions of the Parliamentary Papers Act 1908, authorise the publication of the paper. 
I move: 
Customs Tariff Proposals Nos 16 and 17(1979). 
The Customs Tariff Proposals I have just tabled relate to proposed alterations to the Customs Tariff Act 1966. Proposals Nos 16 and 17 formally places before Parliament as required by law, tariff changes introduced by Gazette notices during the last recess. The changes contained in Proposals No. 16 formalise the Government's decision on recommendations made by the Industries Assistance Commission in its report on nuts, bolts and screws, et cetera. The effect of the decision is that the majority of goods under reference will be dutiable at a rate of 25 per cent. The Proposals also contain administrative changes which have been adopted by the Customs Cooperation Council and to which Australia is a contracting party. No duty alterations are involved. 
Proposals No. 17 formalise changes arising from the Government's decision on recommendations made by the Industries Assistance Commission in its report on the Australian citrus industry. The decision means: 
A duty rate on orange juice imports being the amount by which the value for duty per kilogram of total soluble solids is less than $2.40. Orange juice with a value higher than $2.40 will be free of duties; customs duties on citrus peels, citrus jams and marmalades, canned citrus and other citrus juices remain unchanged; the remainder of the goods covered by the Commission 's report will be duty free. 
A comprehensive summary setting out the nature of the change to duty rates contained in Proposals Nos 16 and 17 has been prepared and is being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Proposals to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 12.56 to 2.1S p.m.  (Quorum formed). 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to give effect to the Government's decision to provide assistance to the manufacture in Australia of dental alloy. Following advice and recommendation from the Temporary Assistance Authority in its report No: 46 of 5 February 1979 entitled 'dental alloys', it has been decided to accord assistance by way of a scheme providing for payment of bounty at the rate of $15 per kilogram by weight of dental alloy which, during the period to which the Act is to apply, is manufactured at registered premises and sold for use in Australia. The bounty, which is to be payable from 22 December 1978, is intended by the Government to accord short term assistance to Australian manufacturers pending an examination by the Industries Assistance Commission of the long term assistance requirements of the industry. Because of the short term nature of the proposal, provision has been made for the scheme to cease on 21 December 1979 or such later date as is fixed by proclamation and for the amount available for payment of bounty not to exceed $45,000 annually. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Uren)  adjourned. 
APPROPRIATION BILL (No. 3) 1978-79 Second Reading 
Debate resumed from 2 May, on motion by  Mr Eric  Robinson: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Upon which  Mr Willis  had moved by way of amendment: 
That all words after "That" be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: "whilst not opposing the pre* visions of the Bill, the House- 
condemns the Government's failure to adopt an economic strategy designed to reduce unemployment; 
deplores its failure to fulfil its promises to reduce inflation and interest rates, and notes with alarm that both are now increasing; 
rejects the Government's determination to place the blame for its economic failures on wage earners, trade unions and the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, and 
expresses its disgust at the Government's perverted and wasteful expenditure priorities as exemplified by its allocation of substantial funds in this Bill to indulge the travelling comfort of the Ministry whilst increasing the deprivation of the underprivileged ". 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would remind the House that it has been agreed that a general debate be allowed covering this Bill and Appropriation Bill (No. 4) 1978-79. 
by leave- I wish to inform the House that the Government will move several minor amendments to the Customs Amendment Bill during the Committee stage. The amendments are in the course of preparation at present. I will ensure that all members of the House have copies of the proposed amendments at the earliest possible time. Briefly, the amendments relate to: 
Date of Operation 
It is proposed to enable the provisions of this Bill relating to personal searches by medical practitioners to be brought into operation at a later date than the date on which the rest of the Bill will come into operation. This is particularly to allow arrangements to be made with State governments concerning the use of State magistrates. 
Magistrates' Orders of Personal Search 
The Customs Amendment Bill as presently framed gives a person the right to go before a magistrate in relation to a Customs or police request for a personal search, before undergoing that search. The proposed amendments will clarify the procedure under which the magistrate may order a search of a person. 
Certificates of Medical Practitioners 
The proposed amendments will provide for a medical practitioner to sign a certificate setting out the results of an internal body search conducted by him and that certificate will be evidence before the courts. 
in reply- It is evident from the number of honourable members who have engaged in this debate on the Customs Amendment Bill that there is, and rightly so, grave concern at the alarming increase in drug abuse in Australia. The increase in the addiction rate to drugs such as heroin and the number of drug-related deaths give some indication of the serious and vicious problem we are now facing. Let me reiterate a statement I made in my second reading speech. The legislation is not directed at the drug user. This is not the person who accumulates vast assets. This is not the person who organises the purchase, importation and distribution  of  commercial quantities of the drug. This is the person who is a victim of a well organised, unscrupulous and immoral business enterprise. Who would deny that the organisers, financiers and profiteers do not deserve financial ruin and hopefully deprivation of liberty? This is what the legislation seeks to achieve. 
Arrests of drug traffickers and the quantities of drugs seized have increased significantly in the past five years. In 1978 heroin seizures increased over the previous year by 53 per cent: cannabis seizures by 986 per cent; and cannabis oil by 162 per cent. Seizures for the current year strongly indicate that this trend will continue. Notwithstanding these results much more needs to be done. The resilience of the international drug trade remains grimly impressive- further supplies become immediately available, couriers are replaced and new methods of concealment are devised. The pressure on enforcement is relentless and there can be little doubt that we still intercept only a small fraction of heroin and other drugs entering the country. 
For these reasons it is essential that drug enforcement authorities have at their disposal equipment and techniques at least equal in sophistication to those utilised by the traffickers. It is essential that there is legislation permitting and controlling the use of these techniques and equipment and penalties which not only reflect the Government's and the community's concern but also hopefully will act as a deterrent to some or just reparation for others who do not heed the warning. I also point out that the Government will not be relying solely on the new legislative powers to upgrade narcotics enforcement efforts. Plans are being developed to further intensify customs activities at international airports to crack down on the smuggling of narcotics. The Government is very concerned at the increasing number of attempts to smuggle narcotics into Australia through airports and the growing tendency for young people to become involved in the narcotics scene overseas. Stronger detection methods are about to be introduced to combat this situation. Increased activities by Customs officers will include variations in the selection of passengers' baggage for examination. In some cases all arriving passengers from particular flights will be subjected to baggage inspections. 
I regret that these measures will result in some slight delay and inconvenience to members of the travelling public, the major proportion of whom are not associated in any way with narcotics, but as the narcotics problem is affecting the community at large the initiatives now proposed are necessary in the public interest. Law enforcement has not and will not become the panacea for solving the problem. Education, treatment and compassionate rehabilitation must all play a role in finding the long term solution. In this regard, through the administrations of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  and the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  the Government is playing a leading role in the joint Commonwealth-State program which wascommended by the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins).  However, enforcement is and must remain the first line of attack against those who would seek to manipulate one of society's ills to their financial advantage. 
I thank honourable members who participated in this debate for giving so much thought and attention to the measure. I am sure that all members of this House are trying to achieve the same result- a substantial reduction in drug abuse. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has indicated that the Opposition supports the Bill but that he will be moving amendments in the legislation committee. I inform the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the House that the Government will give careful consideration to the Opposition's amendments. I cannot, of course, indicate, until I have examined the proposed amendments, whether the Government will accept all or any of them. I repeat, however, my assurance that all amendments proposed will be carefully considered. It is the Government's desire to have the best and most effective legislation enacted in this field. Of course, I will give careful consideration to all remarks made by honourable members. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Motion (by  Mr Fife  on behalf of  Mr Sinclair)  agreed to: 
That this Bill be referred to a legislation committee for report by 24 May 1979. 
Sitting suspended from 6.2 to 8 p.m. 
I am not aware of the report that has been referred to by the honourable member for Franklin but what he has said in the House today concerns me. I will make immediate inquiries. However, I am able to say that the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety has been engaged recently in certain inquiries in relation to steel belted radial tyres. I am not sure of the stage the Committee has reached with its inquiries, but obviously the House will be advised in due course of the outcome of those investigations. I am able to say that the Commonwealth-State Consumer Product Advisory Committee is also active in this field and is investigating a number of complaints and reports that have reached it. When those investigations have been completed the Committee will report to State Ministers and to me, representing the Commonwealth Government. The recommendations made or the findings brought forward, will be considered very carefully and seriously by all governments. This matter is being kept under very close surveillance by the appropriate authorities. Any action that needs to be taken in the interests of public safety will be taken. 
I was very concerned at certain of the comments made by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  who is leading for the Opposition in this debate, particularly when he implied that the Government was acting irresponsibly in doubling the bounty recommended by the Industries Assistance Commission. In fact, he implied that there might be something improper in relation to the decision. He then went on to say that the irony of the matter was that the company rejected the bounty rates as being insufficient. As an Opposition  speaker  will be rising in his place next to speak in the debate, I invite the Opposition to move the adjournment of the debate so that I will be afforded an opportunity to discuss the matter with the company. The Government has no desire to rush legislation through this Parliament to provide a bounty for an industry that does not want the level of bounty recommended in this legislation. 
The investigations carried out by the honourable member for Adelaide raise a doubt in my mind as to whether the bounty is appropriate. I think that the Parliament would wish me to make proper inquiries before the legislation proceeds. In the circumstances, the Government wishes this debate to be adjourned. In that event we will arrange for it to proceed tomorrow in the light of the decisions that flow from the information supplied by the industry. 

 Mr HURFORD (Adelaide)-I will be brief and to the point. I want to make it clear that the statement I made was that Howard Rotavator Pty Ltd rejected the bounty assistance as being insufficient. I believe there can be no misrepresentation of my use of the words. I went on to explain to the House that the Managing Director of the Howard company is on public record as expressing, at a meeting of the Industries Assistance Commission, dissatisfaction with the Government's decision. He said: 
. the bounty or subsidy of $40 per kilowatt (i.e. $90 per unit) on pedestrian tillers on the face of it appears generous, but the limitation of $60,000 per annum does nothing to help me effectively compete in the market place. 
I do not want this interpreted as my saying that the Howard company was not happy to receive this money. That is not so. What I am saying is that the company did not believe that there ought to be a limit of $60,000. If that is the understanding of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  I quite understand that he would want to consider what I have had to say tonight. At the same time, I do not want the Minister to take away a wrong interpretation of the gist of the total contribution from me. The decision may well be right, but sufficient explanation has not been made to this House. The Opposition is happy for the Minister to consider the situation. We would prefer, of course, that this matter come before us again on Thursday. Our proceedings will be broadcast on Thursday and those taking an interest in this matter can tune in and see that justice is not only done, but is seen to be done. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Kerin)  adjourned. 
I am indebted to the honourable member for his question because he has highlighted the real advances which have been made in that area under non-Labor governments. I am serious when I say that because, down through the years, most of the significant reforms in the social welfare area have been initiatives taken on this side of the House by Liberal and National Country Party governments. I am also indebted to the honourable member for giving me the opportunity to remind the House and the Australian public of the position when this Government came into office. When we came into office we were faced with an inflation rate of about 16 or 17 per cent. It was higher for the sixmonth period before the fall of the former Australian Labor Party Government. Had it not been for a sudden and disastrous downturn in the price of beef, the inflation rate in Australia would have been over 20 per cent during one period when the Australian Labor Party was in office. 
The inflation rate is very significant for people who are on fixed incomes, particularly pensioners. Indeed, a high inflation rate is the greatest enemy of pensioners. The most significant advance which has been made by this Government in that regard has been to apply pressure on the inflation rate and to bring it down. The honourable member provided a service to the Parliament by raising his question. I indicate to him that the pensioners' position will always be of prime concern to an Australian Government formed by the Liberal Party of Australia and the National Country Party of Australia. This Government took the rate of pension paid to beneficiaries out of politics by introducing the indexation of pensions. 
My attention has been drawn to the concern that has been expressed by the aviation industry in relation to the recent substantial increase in the price of Avgas. It is true that the impact of this decision by the Prices Justification Tribunal will be felt more in country areas than in the metropolitan areas; but, to a degree, the effect in the country areas will be softened by the policies of this Government in relation to the petrol freight subsidy scheme. In the report handed down by the PJT on 1 1 April on the inquiry in respect of the Shell company and other related companies, the PJT found that an increase of 6c a litre in the wholesale price of Avgas was justified. Subsequent to that report the PJT also found that a further increase of 4c a litre was justified as a result of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries increases in crude oil prices. Increases in Avgas prices have been higher than those found justified for most other petroleum products. In relation to this, the PJT explained in its report that Shell was importing this product and not refining it locally. The House will be interested to know that approximately 50 per cent of Avgas used in Australia is imported from Iran. At the Shell inquiry the PJT considered submissions made to it by all sections of the aviation industry, but it took the view that cost increases for this product should not be spread across the whole product range of the petroleum industry. 
The honourable member also asked whether I can intervene in the decision of the PJT. I am not able to intervene in the decision of the PJT. No capacity is provided by the Prices Justification Act for the Minister to direct the PJT as to its decisions. I have no intention of suggesting that the Act be amended in this way. The fact of the matter is that market forces have resulted in increased costs of importing Avgas. The matter has been considered carefully by the PJT at a public inquiry and the findings, substantial though they may be, have been handed down publicly. 
Recently I issued a statement which confirmed that on 2 March this year the Minister for Health forwarded a document to State Ministers for Health on a confidential basis. This document canvassed various matters in relation to hospital administration, in particular the finance aspect of hospital administration. This document has been the subject of discussion between officials of Commonwealth and State health administrations. The content of that document will subsequently be considered by Commonwealth and State Health Ministers. In relation to that part of the honourable member's question which dealt specifically with a possible reference to the Expenditure Committee, I will discuss that matter with my colleague, the Minister for Health, and arrange for him to confer with the  Chairman  of the Expenditure Committee. In due course his decision will be relayed to the honourable member. 
The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman),  who has just resumed his seat, said that he was disappointed at the attitude of the Opposition in this debate. I can understand his disappointment. Indeed, I am sincerely puzzled by the attitude of the Opposition and its performance in the debate. I do not seek to establish in the House motives for the Opposition's attitude. I merely leave the matter on the basis that to say the least I am extremely puzzled. The Government's aim, of course, with legislation of this kind, is to ensure as far as practicable the continuation of production and obviously the resultant maintenance of employment in the industry. We have a feel for this need. We understand the concerns of people who are employed in industries that seek assistance. We realise that unless businesses are productive and profitable employment will suffer. The honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin)  said that there was a great deal of confusion. He implied- indeed I think he said- that I was confused and that the Government was confused in relation to this matter. 
The only people confused in this debate have been the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  and the honourable member for Werriwa. This confusion was evident in the speeches they made during the second reading debate on this Bill. Had it not been for the contributions made by the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh),  the honourable member for Ballarat  (Mr Short)  and the honourable member for Mitchell there would have been no constructive content in this debate other than that contained in my second reading speech. I am indebted to those three honourable members for their informed and constructive contribution to this debate. 
I was interested to hear the honourable member for Mitchell say that the Managing Director of Howard Rotavator Pty Ltd is coming to Canberra tonight, presumably because of his concern at what happened last night and the comments that were made by the honourable member for Adelaide who led for the Opposition. I am sorry that the managing director has felt it necessary to visit Canberra, but as I indicated last night, on the basis of what the honourable member for Adelaide said, I felt that to act responsibly I had no alternative than to seek the adjournment of the debate so that all of these matters could be clarified. As I said a moment ago, the only people confused are the members of the Opposition who have participated in this debate. Therefore, I believe that it is necessary to clarify the reasons for the Government's decision. 
I can assure all honourable members that any gaps in the information previously provided to the Parliament were not intentional and the Government rejects outright any suggestion that the decision made was in any way improper. The background is that this decision was based on an interim report- I emphasise the words 'interim report'- of the Industries Assistance Commission dated 6 December 1978. In that report the Commission stated that imports had caused serious damage to the pedestrian operated rotary cultivator industry. This damage had caused a loss of sales on the domestic market and indirectly a loss of sales on the export market. The Commission stated in its report that if short term assistance were not granted there was every possibility that production of these cultivators would cease. The Commission recommended that short term assistance- and I emphasise again for the benefit of honourable members opposite the words 'short term assistance'- by means of a bounty was warranted in order to hold resources in what is considered to be a low cost and efficient industry, pending receipt of the Commission's final report on the industry and a decision on that report by the Government. The date for the final IAC report on this matter is 6 October this year. 
In the interim IAC report the Commission recommended that the bounty on each machine should be at the rate of $20 per kilowatt of engine power. After careful consideration of the Commission's report the Government agreed with the Commission's conclusions that resources should be encouraged to remain in this low cost industry pending receipt and consideration of the final IAC report. 
The reasons why the Government on the advice of the IAC chose to offer a bounty to this industry rather than the more usual assistance by means of the customs tariff were twofold. First, one of the main sources of competition is New Zealand. The provisions  or  the New ZealandAustralia Free Trade Agreement prevent duties being imposed on New Zealand cultivators regardless of the level of duty applied to similar goods from other countries. Hence, a bounty is the only means of assisting Australian manufacturers against the New Zealand imports. The bounty has a second benefit in that it keeps the price to the consumer at a reasonable level. In this case the consumer is the small home or market gardener. 
The major comments on this present bounty measure have been concerned with the level and amount of bounty being offered. The level recommended by the IAC was $20 per kilowatt of engine power of the prime mover. The requirement that the machine should have a minimum local content of 60 per cent is a normal precautionary measure. This would have resulted in a bounty of approximately $45 per unit for the major selling local cultivator. As this machine suffers significant price disabilities compared with imports, the Government was concerned that assistance at the recommended level could be insufficient to present the local producer from going out of business, with consequent loss of employment. Therefore, it was determined that additional assistance might be desirable. 
Another factor in the decision was the knowledge that the local manufacturer's viability in the past had depended to a great degree on the volume of production achieved, which depended again on a substantial volume of exports. As the Government had already decided that assistance would be by means of a bounty, it became relevant that in certain important export markets, such as the United States of America, any exports may be taxed by way of countervailing duties to the extent of any government subsidy paid on their production. Hence it became more essential to give meaningful assistance to the smaller volume of cultivators produced for the Australian market. 
Another factor taken into account in the decision to increase the bounty offered was the effect of existing duties on components used in cultivators, particularly engines. One method of assisting cultivator manufacture would have been the elimination of the duty on engines, as requested by the local producer. However, the Government decided that the duty treatment of the engines used should not be changed and that the burden which the protection of this important component placed on the cultivator manufacturer had to be considered. In the light of all these factors the Government decided that the bounty should be set at a level of $40 per kilowatt of engine power, which is equivalent to about $90 per cultivator. The total amount of bounty offered by the Government in this Bill is restricted to $60,000, as suggested by the Industries Assistance Commission. This limitation also has been the subject of criticism, both within this House and in recent hearings by the IAC in its inquiry into long term assistance for the industry. 
The rationale behind this limitation is that the bounty is intended to operate in the short term only- for the benefit of honourable members opposite I emphasise 'in the short term only'- and that even at the higher level of bounty decided upon by the Government the local manufacturer's domestic sales would have to be more than double and achieve the peak levels obtained for domestic sales in 1972-73 and 1973-74 if the limit were to be reached. I, like every other member of the Government, hope that it is reached. The Government is confident that the upper limit of the bounty will not interfere with the intention to retain resources in the industry until such time as the decision is made on the long term assistance needs of the industry. 
The only Australian manufacturer of pedestrian-operated rotary cultivators which submitted evidence to the IAC was Howard Rotavator Pty Ltd. The company was contacted this morning by an officer of my Department and it has indicated very clearly, contrary to what the honourable member for Adelaide said last evening, that the bounty proposed by the Government will allow it to continue production at viable levels and is an acceptable form of assistance. I reaffirm the Government's strong support of the measure which is now before the House forks consideration. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
In  Committee 
The Bill. 
First of all, on behalf of the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman),  I want to make it clear that the honourable member did not invite  Mr Tinkler  to come to Canberra today. Indeed,  Mr Tinkler  heard ofthe debate last night and, on his own initiative, because of his concern and because of what was said by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  he decided to come here. The form of assistance provided under the Bounty (Rotary Cultivators) Bill is of immense importance to  Mr Tinkler's  company. The honourable member for Adelaide said that last night I either misunderstood him or misrepresented what he said in relation to  Mr Tinkler's  company. I repeat what I said in my remarks last night, namely, that the honourable member had indicated that the irony of the matter was that the company rejected the bounty rates as being insufficient. The honorable member for Adelaide has repeated that claim today and has referred to a transcript of the evidence given before the Industries Assistance Commission. 
This afternoon I have done my best to impress upon the Opposition the fact that this Bill will provide temporary assistance. I think really, to be fair to the honourable member for Adelaide, he is still a little confused about that aspect because during the remarks he made a few minutes ago he referred, perhaps inadvertently, to the report from the Temporary Assistance Authority. We are not acting upon a report from the Temporary Assistance Authority; we are acting upon an interim report from the IAC. The comments made at the IAC hearing by a representative of the company concerned were made in relation to the long term. I have indicated already that the Government expects to receive the IAC report on the long term considerations on or by 6 October next. I repeat: Because of the concern I harboured last night in the light of what the honourable member for Adelaide had said, this morning I had inquiries made by an" officer of my Department. I have been assured by the company that the bounty proposed by the Government will allow it to continue production at viable levels and that it is an acceptable form of assistance. I am grateful to the honourable member for Adelaide for the compliment he passed me in relation to the advice I have given him and this chamber today. I hope that, as a result of his receiving that information and hearing what I have said now in relation to the short term as opposed to the long term, he now feels he is fully informed about the measure. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am not aware of the particular figures to which the honourable member refers. 
There are no published figures for Australia showing the number of Australians investing in shares. 
Australian Design Rule 27A  (Question No.  3450) 
It is true, of course, that a decision has not yet been taken in relation to the siting of the headquarters of the proposed national companies and securities commission. That matter will not be decided by one government. The scheme, which I hope will come into operation in the not too distant future, is a co-operative one and, because it is, decisions of this nature must be taken by all of the participating governments. 
I am anxious to have this matter resolved because I believe that until it is resolved it will bug Ministers right round Australia, as well as parliamentarians on all sides of all Houses of parliament, and will be detrimental insofar as the scheme is concerned. 
I will take on board the suggestion that has been made by the honourable member for Adelaide. Indeed, yesterday I received a telex from the Premier of South Australia making the same suggestion. It will be kept in mind when I meet the Ministers to try to resolve the problem. I guess it is fair to say that at least seven sites have been suggested, but I will consider the question seriously and keep it in mind. I wish also to give the House an assurance that the Commonwealth is determined to do everything within its power to have this matter resolved as soon as possible. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to give effect to the Government's decision to continue assistance to the manufacture of books in Australia for a further period of seven years from 1 January 1980. The present level of assistance- one-third of the cost of productionwas previously extended to 31 December 1979 following an interim recommendation of the Commission. The Bill changes the rate of bounty after 1 January 1983, introduces certain changes in the eligibility criteria, and contains certain other amendments designed to obviate administrative difficulties and correct certain anomalies currently inherent in the principal Act. This is consistent with the Government's desire to provide community access to information at the lowest possible cost. Following advice and recommendation from the Industries Assistance Commission in its report No. 178 of 31 July 1978 entitled 'Products of the Printing Industry ' in respect of printed books, the Government accepted, in principle, the Commission's recommendation that the existing bounty should be continued. However the Government decided that the reductions in bounty recommended by the IAC should be phased in more gradually. 
In its report the IAC recommended that the bounty should be reduced to 25 per cent of the cost of production as from 1 January 1982. The Commission stated that having examined the background to the introduction of the bounty, and its history and effects, it had concluded that the purpose of the bounty was, and should remain to assist local book manufacturers to obtain work, which, in the absence of the assistance, could be lost to overseas competitors. The Government accepts the Commission's conclusions. However, it considered that the rationalisation in the industry, which is expected to occur as a result of the reduction in the bounty, would be less disruptive under the proposals adopted, which allow for a longer period of phasing to reach the IAC recommended rate. 
Under the Government's announced proposals the rate of one-third of the cost of production will continue for books produced from 1 January 1980 to 31 December 1982, and will then be reduced to 30 per cent for books produced in the period 1 January 1983 to 31 December 1983. For books produced in the period 1 January 1984 to 31 December 1986, the rate of bounty will be 25 per cent of the cost of production. For the same reasons the Government has decided that the IAC's recommendations in relation to paper and binding materials provided free of charge for the production of a book will be phased down over a similar period. Bounty is to be payable at the rate of 25 per cent of the price paid or payable by the publisher for those materials in relation to books produced between 1 January 1980 and 31 December 1982. This rate will be reduced to 23 per cent for books produced between 1 January 1983 and 31 December 1983, and further reduced to 20 per cent for books produced between 1 January 1984 and 31 December 1986. 
Because the purpose of the book bounty is to assist local printers against import competition, bounty is generally available for books which, in the absence of bounty, would otherwise have been printed overseas. On this basis, the Bill makes certain changes to the criteria for bounty eligibility. For example, books such as workshop and service manuals, statistical publications and books containing advertisements, if of the type which, on importation, would be admitted duty free, will become eligible for bounty. On the other hand, publications produced by photocopying, commercial or industrial specifications, tender documents, et cetera, will no longer be eligible. The new criteria will also require books to be produced in a minimum run of 1,000 copies and, unless case bound, be for use in the form in which they were published. The provisions designed to obviate administrative difficulties which I mentioned earlier include, for example, in clause11 an amendment which provides that bounty will be no longer payable unless a person keeps accounts, books, documents and records showing, in particular, details of production to the satisfaction of the Minister. 
It is considered by the Government that the revised rates of bounty will maintain the level of activity and employment in this industry in the short term and, at the same time, provide an opportunity for the industry to restructure so as to become competitive at a more moderate level of assistance. The introduction of the revised eligibility criteria as set out in section 4 of the Bill is designed to assist those manufacturers who have become increasingly susceptible to import competition so that they may compete more effectively in the Australian market. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. I recently announced a reference to the Trade Practices Consultative Committee regarding the relationship between the restrictive trade practices provisions of the Trade Practices Act and small business. The Committee was formed to advise the Government on the practical operation of the Act and whether it is having any unintended effects in the market place. Specifically, I have asked the Committee whether, consistent with the general objective of the development and maintenance of free and fair competition in Australian industry there is any action in relation to the Trade Practices Act which could be taken with the objective of the improvement of the market position of small business in Australia. In examining the matter the Committee has been asked to pay particular attention to the provisions of the Act dealing with monopolisation, exclusive dealing and price discrimination. 
I have received a number of representations in relation to section 49 of the Trade Practices Act. Most of these have related to problems of businessmen who have felt that section 49 would be of assistance to them in their particular situation. I have also had complaints that section 49 has inhibited price competition and has caused business uncertainty. An examination of records has not revealed any complaints regarding action taken by the Trade Practices Commission in relation to section 49. 
I have received some complaints from small businessmen that they do not receive the same buying advantages as some of their larger competitors. Reasonable allowance for differences in wholesale pricing which result from differing places to which, methods by which, of quantities in which goods are supplied to purchasers is permitted under section 49. Also there is a provision in the Act under certain circumstances for authorization to be given to collective buying schemes which enable small businesses to obtain the benefit of better buying terms. 
I am not aware of there being instances of warehouses selling direct to the public receiving a loaded advantage of over 50 per cent. 
The Trade Practices Commission carries out its statutory duty of administering the Act as enacted by the Parliament. It has no right to, nor does it, go outside the express provisions of the Act in this area. 
See(l) above. 
No, see(l) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of bankrupts registered throughout Australia in the period1 January 1979 to 31 March 1979 is an increase on the numbers registered in the same period in 1978 and 1 977. The numbers registered are: 
1979-1,015, 1978-803, 1977-553. 
When bankrupts are interviewed by officers of the Bankruptcy Branch an assessment is made of the major cause and the contributing causes for the bankruptcy. As shown in the 10th and 1 1th Annual Reports on the operation of the Bankruptcy Act 1966, the major causes of nonbusiness bankruptcies for the years ending 30 June 1 977 and 30 June 1978 were assessed as follows: 
For the information of honourable members I present an interim report by the Industries Assistance Commission on fixed resistors. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second rime. 
The Customs Tariff Amendment Bill 1979 now before the House proposes amendments to the Customs Tariff Act 1966.  (Quorum formed).  The Bill, which contains 14 schedules, is necessary to enact tariff changes made by Customs Tariffproposals Nos 1-15 (1979) which have been introduced into the Parliament at different times since February 1979. Also included in the Bill are changes of an administrative nature. 
In the main, the amendments give effect to decisions by the Government in respect of the following reports by the Industries Assistance Commission: Certain paper and paperboard; fisheries and fish processing industry; injection or puncture needles; inks; jewellery and other precious metalware, et cetera; timber and timber products and plywood and veneer; tyres, tyre cases, et cetera; umbrellas, sunshades, et cetera and parts therefor; vegetable oils and fats, animal oils and fats, et cetera; and work trucks, certain mobile machines, et cetera. 
Honourable members will recall that when the Tariff Proposals were introduced into the House a summary in respect of each of the Proposals was circulated which set out the nature of the change in duty rates and the origin of each change. I have had a consolidation of these summaries prepared and copies may be obtained from the Table Office. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
I move: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Nil. 
Six. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I raised this question at the most recent meeting of Ministers for Consumer Affairs, held in Sydney on Friday 6 April 1 979. The meeting noted that the Commonwealth had raised the issue and resolved to discuss the matter again at the next meeting of Consumer Affairs Ministers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) No. It is not within the Ministerial jurisdiction of any Commonwealth Minister to direct the Advisory Council in matters pertaining to its administration or research procedures. The Advisory Council is an independent body. I am informed, however, by the Advisory Council that it will welcome submissions even though the official closing date has passed. 
Yes. Only four weeks elapsed between receipt of formal invitations to Members and the deadline for receipt of submissions. Submissions, however, had been widely canvassed during October1 978 and the Advisory Council has been advised that the Commonwealth Government will make a formal submission to its enquiry. This submission is being prepared by officers of the Department of National Development, Local Government Branch. Individual Members of Parliament are, of course, at liberty to forward a written submission to the Advisory. Council on their own behalf. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) It is not possible to estimate the quantity or place a value on drugs which are being illegally imported into 
Australia. However detailsof the quantities of drugs which have been seized by my Department for the past 4 years are as follows: 
Pursuant to section 10 of the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Act 1976, I present the 1978-79 reports of the New South Wales, Victorian, Queensland, South Australian, Western Australian and Tasmanian Local Government Grants Commissions on financial assistance for local government in each of those six States. Due to the limited number available, copies of the reports have been placed in the Table Office and the Parliamentary Library. The determinations on allocations to local government authorities for 1978-79 were abstracted from the reports and have already been presented to the House. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
None. 
Not applicable. 
It is a fact that a great deal of difficulty has been experienced in relation to the siting of the proposed headquarters of the National Companies and Securities Commission. 
Last week I telexed all the State Ministers responsible and suggested that a meeting be held today, the purpose of which would be to settle this question. I suggested also that it be settled by way of ballot. I see no other way of resolving this issue, save the unexpected happening of all States and the Commonwealth agreeing on one site. Over the past few months it has become apparent that the debate on this matter has centred around the site being in Sydney or Melbourne. Very good reasons have been advanced as to why the headquarters should be established in either centre. 
I have said on a number of occasions that it is important for this matter to be resolved so that the more important aspects of the scheme can be considered- firstly by the Ministers concerned and then by the seven parliaments in Australia. As I have pointed out on numerous occasions, it is terribly important to bring into this Parliament the legislation to set up the National Companies and Securities Commission. I have the legislation here,  Mr Acting Speaker.  It has been available to honourable members on both sides of the House for some time. As a matter of fact, I made the Bill available to the Opposition on 6 April this year so that honourable members on both sides of the House would have an opportunity of examining the proposal on a confidential basis and so that this House would be able to give proper consideration to the Bill when it is introduced. 
Because of the terms of the agreement entered into between the Commonwealth and the States, we are unable to bring this piece of legislation into the House of Representatives until all the States and the Commonwealth have agreed. Five out of the six States have agreed. The Commonwealth has agreed. New South Wales to date has failed to provide agreement to the bringing of this legislation into the House. The suggestion that we might consider going back to the 1901 solution has some merit. It was not the intention of the Commonwealth Government to suggest that Canberra be the site for the headquarters of the Commission. But if it will help to resolve this situation and help to facilitate the introduction of the legislation into the Parliament, I am prepared to make a recommendation along those lines to the Commonwealth Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have referred the matter raised in your question to the Trade Practices Consultative Committee to be considered in the context of the Committee's general enquiry into the relationship between the restrictive trade practices provisions of the Trade Practices Act and small business whose terms of reference I announced on 9 March 1 979. As pan of its reference I asked the Committee to report whether any action can be taken in relation to the Act to improve the market position of small business. 
I move Government amendment No. 1: 
That the following amendment be made to the Bill: 
Clause 4, page 2, lines 29 and 30, omit 'the power conferred on him under sub-section 2 1 9b ( 5 ) or ( 6 ) of this Act or'. 
Government amendments Nos 1 and 2 form part of a package of amendments that the Government now proposes to move as a result of the debate on the Customs Amendment Bill 1979 in the Legislation Committee. It was put strongly during debate in the legislation committee that a warrant for the use of a listening device in connection with a narcotics investigation should be issued by the judiciary and not by the Minister or the Comptroller-General of Customs. The amendments, ultimately agreed upon by the legislation committee, were, as I understand it, seeking to express this view without necessarily having the agreement of supporting members to the precise terms of the amendments. I indicated to the legislation committee that I proposed advising the Government about the substance of the debate and would make a further comment on the matter when the committee reported to the House. The Government has now considered the debate in the legislation committee. It has concluded that it is necessary to make changes to the Bill introduced into this House. In particular, the Government has decided that it is appropriate, in relation to a narcotics investigation, for a warrant, authorising the use of a listening device, to be issued by the judiciary. Amendments which I shall be moving in relation to the report of the legislation comittee reflect this decision. 
These amendments are related and deal with a purely technical matter arising from the change to judicial warrants. Because the Minister and Comptroller-General are no longer empowered to authorise the issue of a warrant, a reference to the delegation of this power in sections 9 and 10 of the Act is superfluous. 
I move Government amendment No. 2: 
That the following amendment be made to the Bill: 
Clause 4, page 2, line 40, omit 'the power conferred on him under section 2 1 9d of this Act or '. 
I move Government amendment No. 3: 
That the following amendment be made to the Bill: 
Clause 4, page 3, line 6, after proposed section 10 insert the following proposed section: 
( 1 ) The Governor-General may make arrangements with the Governor of a State- 
for the performance by all or any of the persons who from time to time hold office as Judges of the Supreme Court of that State of the functions of a Judge under Division1 a of Part XII; and 
for the performance by all or any of the persons who from time to time hold office as Magistrates in that State of the functions of a Magistrate under sections 196 and196aa. 
The Governor-General may make arrangements with the Administrator of the Northern Territory- 
for the performance by all or any of the persons who from time to time hold office as Judges of the Supreme Court of that Territory and are not also Judges of the Federal Court of Australia or of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory of the functions of a Judge under Division I a of Part XII; and ' 
for the performance by all or any of the persons who from time to time hold office as Magistrates in that Territory of the functions of a Magistrate under section 196 and 196AA.'. 
This amendment, together with Government amendment No. 5, deals with the question of which judges may issue a warrant for the use of a listening device in narcotics investigations. The amendments to the Bill made by the legislation committee provide for judges of the Federal Court of Australia or of a supreme court of a State or Territory to issue such a warrant. The Government agrees with this proposal but considers it necessary to make formal arrangements with State governments concerning the use of State judges. Accordingly, amendment No. 3 proposes a new section 1 1 to give formal power for the Governor-General to enter into appropriate arrangements with the government of a State or the Administrator of the Northern Territory. In addition, Government amendment No. 3 authorises parallel constitutional arrangements to be made for State or Territory magistrates to be used for the purpose of an order requiring an internal body search under proposed section 196 of the Act as amended by this Bill. 
I move Government amendment No. 4: 
That amendment No. (4) made by the legislation committee be amended by adding at the end thereof the following sub-section: (3D) Where a medical practitioner furnishes to an officer of Customs or of police a certificate, signed by him, setting out the results of an examination carried out by him of the body cavities of a person, the officer of Customs or of police shall cause a copy of the certificate to be furnished to the person as soon as practicable after the certificate is furnished to him. '. 
It was agreed by the legislation committee that clause 6 of the Bill be amended to provide that a medical practitioner may provide a certificate setting out the results of an internal examination carried out by him and for that certificate to be used as evidence before the courts. The purpose of that amendment was to obviate the necessity to summon the medical practitioner as a witness to testify in each case. During the debate in the legislation committee the question was raised as to whether use of this certificate would deny any right of the defendant to cross-examine the medical practitioner who had provided the certificate. I stated during the legislation committee, and I repeat it now, that the Government has no wish to deny a defendant the right of crossexamination. Accordingly, Government amendment No. 4 provides for the defendant to be given prior notice of the certificate so that he and his legal advisers are in a position to approach the Crown to have the medical practitioner called as a witness for the prosecution or to move for the court to so order. 
I move Government amendment No. 5: 
That amendment No. (S) made by the legislation committee be omitted and the following amendment substituted: 
Clause 8, page 4, line 13, before the definition of 'listening device ' insert the following definition: " 'Judge' means- 
a Judge of the Federal Court of Australia or of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory; 
b ) a Judge of the Supreme Court of a State in respect of whom an appropriate arrangement in force under section 1 1 is applicable; or 
a Judge of the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory who is not a Judge referred to in paragraph (a) and in respect of whom an appropriate arrangement in force under section 1 1 is applicable;".'. 
The comments which I made in relation to Government amendment No. 3 dealt with this amendment. 
I move Government amendment No. (6): 
That amendment No. (6) made by the legislation committee be omitted and the following amendment substituted: "(6) Clause 8, pages 3 and 6, proposed section 219b, omit sub-sections (S) and (6), substitute the following sub-sections: 
Where, upon application being made to a Judge by an officer of Customs for the issue of a warrant under this section authorizing the use of a listening device in relation to a particular person, the Judge is satisfied, by information on oath, that- 
the person has committed, or is suspected on reasonable grounds of having committed, or of being likely to commit, a narcotics offence; and 
the use by officers of Customs of a listening device to listen to or record words spoken by or to that person will, or is likely to, assist officers of Customs in or in connection with- 
inquiries that are being made in relation to a narcotics offence that the person has committed or is reasonably suspected of having committed; or 
if there are circumstances reasonably giving rise to the suspicion that the person is likely to commit a narcotics offence- inquiries that are being made in relation to the likely commission, by that person, of that offence, the Judge may, by warrant under his hand in accordance with the prescribed form, authorize officers of Customs, subject to any conditions or restrictions that he sees fit to specify in the warrant to use a listening device for the purpose of listening to or recording words spoken by, to or in the presence of that person, and such a warrant may authorize officers of Customs to enter any premises in which the person is, or is likely to be, for the purpose of installing, maintaining, using or recovering a listening device or a part of a listening device. (5a) A Judge may grant a warrant under sub-section 
authorizing the use of a listening device for the purpose of listening to or recording words spoken by, to or in a presence of a person anywhere in Australia. 
Where, upon application being made to a Judge by an officer of Customs for the issue of a warrant under this section authorizing the use of a listening device in relation to particular premises, the Judge is satisfied, by information on oath, that- 
there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that the premises have been, or are likely to be, used in connection with the commission of a narcotics offence; and 
the use by officers of Customs of a listening device to listen to or record words spoken by or to persons in those premises will, or is likely to assist officers of Customs in, or in connection with, inquiries that are being made in relation to the use or likely use, of the premises in connection with the commission of a narcotics offence. the Judge may, by warrant under his hand in accordance with the prescribed form, authorize officers of Customs, subject to any conditions or restrictions that he sees fit to specify in the warrant, to use a listening device for the purpose of listening to or recording words spoken by or to any person while the person is in those premises, and such a warrant may authorize officers of Customs to enter those premises for the purpose of installing, maintaining, using  or  recovering a listening device or a part of a listening device. (6a) A Judge may grant a warrant under sub-section 
authorizing the use of a listening device in respect of premises situated anywhere in Australia. ' ". 
These amended clauses deal with the issue of a warrant by a judge to authorise the use of a listening device in respect of either a person or premises. The provisions largely follow the provisions in the Bill introduced by the Government with necessary changes reflecting the use of judicial warrants. One question raised in the legislation committee was the possible use of a listening device to overhear conversations between lawyer and client and whether these conversations were privileged or would be privileged but for this Bill. Firstly, I comment that the ability to obtain a warrant to overhear a lawyerclient conversation depends entirely upon the judge issuing the warrant. Clearly a judge will not authorise a listening device to be used in relation to a lawyer or his premises unless either his relationship with a particular person or the use of his premises is an integral part of the illegal behaviour itself. 
It would be inconceivable that the Crown would seek, or that a judge would issue, a warrant to overhear conversations relevant to a lawyer acting solely in his professional capacity for a person suspected of a narcotics offence. As to the question of" whether a privilege exists to protect a conversation between lawyer and client, I am advised that that privilege merely extends to enable the lawyer to refuse to give evidence about the conversation. The privilege does not attach to any third person giving evidence of those matters and accordingly the question does not arise in relation to the Bill before the House. An officer of Customs giving evidence of a communication between a lawyer and client is not under any restraint now with respect to that evidence, nor does this Bill change the law in that respect. 
During the debate in the legislation committee, the question was also raised as to the extent to which information relevant to some offence derived by the use of a listening device may be given to the police and used in a prosecution. The Government intends to stand by these provisions in the Bill as being appropriate in the circumstances. If in the course of the use of a listening device a fact relevant to the commission of a serious offence- say, murder, or an act of terrorism- is overheard it would be ludicrous and clearly untenable for the Government not to act upon that information and, if relevant, use it in a prosecution. 
Finally, this amendment inserts in proposed new section 219b sub-sections (5a) and (6a), which provide for a judge to grant a warrant authorising the use of a listening device anywhere in Australia. The intention of these subsections is to make clear to the judiciary the intention of Parliament that a judge can, and indeed is expected to, exercise this authority outside his normal area of jurisdiction. Thus, for example, it may be that a relevant Commonwealth officer may approach a New South Wales judge in respect of the use of a listening device in Western Australia, or indeed the use of listening devices in a particular investigation on-going in a number of States. It is not desirable that the New South Wales judge should, in these circumstances, take the view that he should issue warrants only in respect of New South Wales. 
The Government does not accept Opposition amendment No. 1 moved by the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi),  nor does it intend to accept Opposition amendments Nos 2 to 7, which the honourable member has also moved and which relate to the procedures by which a judge issues a warrant for the use of a listening device. As I propose to inform the House when moving Government amendments Nos 8 and 9, standing in my name, the Government would prefer that procedures for issuing these warrants should be under the control of the judge issuing the warrant rather than imposing time-consuming and cumbersome statutory procedures to be followed in all cases. Accordingly, in relation to this amendment the Government does not accept that there ought to be a requirement in all cases that a formal affidavit be furnished to the judge. This is not to say that the judge may not require such an affidavit. Proposed new section 219c, contained in amendment No. 9 standing in my name, provides that the information on oath to be given to the judge may be given orally or otherwise. It is thereby anticipated that in cases where the judge considers it necessary, he can require information to be given on oath in the form of an affidavit. 
Opposition amendments Nos 2 and 3 propose to restrict the ability of a State or Territory supreme court judge to issue a warrant. The Opposition proposes that under this federal legislation, which applies Australia-wide, judges be required to have concern about the otherwise totally irrelevant consideration of a State boundary. The Government does not accept the amendment. This apparent change of mind on the part of the Opposition- the amendments moved by the Opposition in the legislation committee would have achieved the totally opposite result- can only impede appropriate investigations in particular cases by tying them up in technical jurisdictional concerns. Persons involved in drug trafficking are not concerned about the niceties of the inter se jurisdiction of supreme court judges. Experience has demonstrated that drug traffickers are commonly nimble footed, with bases in many States. It would be unrealistic to expect that in all instances narcotics investigation officers, when using a listening device on a particular person, would be able to predict exactly where that person is with sufficient accuracy to satisfy the jurisdictional test of a supreme court judge. 
As I have indicated, the Government does not accept Opposition amendment No. 4 moved by the honourable member for Hawker or, indeed, Opposition amendments Nos 5, 6 and 7. These amendments relate to the procedural rules under which a judge may issue a warrant for the use of a listening device. As I said in relation to Opposition amendment No. 1 moved by the honourable member and as I expect to say it several more times in the course of this Committee stage debate, the Government does not wish to tie the judiciary to tight and undoubtedly cumbersome and unnecessary rules of procedure. The Government considers that the rules of procedure should be flexible and adjustable to each case. I emphasise that the Government has taken the view that the judiciary has sufficient experience and appropriate training to be entrusted with the administration of the issue of these warrants without the necessity for the Parliament to tie its hands. In particular, the Government considers that no member of the judiciary would authorise the issue of such a warrant if it was clearly contrary to the public interest to do so. 
One final matter should be noted. The Government believes that by maintaining flexible procedural rules we should be able to dispose of the necessity for a special rule to deal with emergency situations. The amendments I have moved are so framed. The Opposition's amendments would impose heavy procedural requirements, clearly inappropriate to emergency situations, without making any provision for emergency situations. 
I would like to repeat one clause from the statement I made earlier. It is relevant to what the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  has just said. Honourable members will recall that I said: 
Clearly, a judge will not authorise a listening device to be used in relation to a lawyer or his premises unless either bis relationship with a particular person or the use of his premises are an integral part of the illegal behaviour itself. 
I think that this is very relevant to the discussion which is taking place in the House at present. I also take the opportunity of giving the right honourable member for Lowe and the House an assurance that as Minister I will keep this matter under close scrutiny. I give a further assurance that in effect this matter has been under close scrutiny by me since I was appointed to this portfolio. Honourable members will be aware that at present, without the amendments to the Customs Act, the Minister and, in some circumstances, the Comptroller-General, has the power under certain State legislation to authorise the use of listening devices. I have, in my capacity as Minister during the period in which I have held this portfolio, given approval for the use of listening devices. I am certain that the judiciary involved will be just as careful and perhaps, in the view of some members of Parliament, they will be more careful that I have been in the discharge of this delicate responsiblity 
I have been asked to respond to certain matters. Indeed, I have been responding all through this debate and I cannot do more than repeat some of the things that I have already said. I do not wish to reflect on honourable members, but one or two who have spoken were not here when I made my substantive remarks in relation to the amendments before the House and therefore can be excused, for not having heard what I said. I realise that there is concern in the minds of some honourable members about the relationship between a lawyer and his client. I can do no more in this regard than to repeat that the advice available to me is that that privilege extends merely to enable the lawyer to refuse to give evidence about the conversation. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  asked me to confirm in this House that that was the advice available to me. Indeed, I said that earlier in this debate. 
The privilege does not attach to any third person giving evidence on those matters and, accordingly, the question does not arise in relation to the Bill before the House. An officer of Customs giving evidence of a communication between a lawyer and a client is not under any restraint now with respect to that evidence, nor does this Bill change the law in that respect. As I pointed out earlier, the matter of whether a listening device would be permitted to be used in a lawyer's office is a matter for the judiciary, for the judge at the time to determine. I have said previously- this is the third occasion that I have said this-that clearly a judge is not going to give permission for a listening device to be placed in a lawyer's office unless he is satisfied that a particular person, or the use of his premises, is an integral part of the illegal behaviour itself. He will have to be convinced by the Customs officials in this respect. I agree with the proposition advanced by the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi),  leading for the Opposition, that if in the course of the use of a listening device a Customs official comes into possession of information, in relation to, say, a murder that has been committed or one that is to be committed, or some other serious offence, he has a responsibility to pass on that information to the appropriate authorities. 
I want to make one or two brief comments. I am surprised that the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  drew an analogy between Customs officers and police officers and suggested that a corrupt police officer might go to a Customs officer and make an accusation about a certain person being a drug trafficker when that person perhaps was not a drug trafficker but the police wanted to apprehend him on some other charge. Let me say to the honourable member for Dennison that no police officer would go to a Customs officer in those circumstances because in most States of the Commonwealth the police have greater access to the use of listening devices than Customs officers will have under this legislation. Indeed in New South Wales the Commissioner of Police grants the warrants. It is not even the Minister or the Premier but the Commissioner for Police who has authority to grant a warrant for New South Wales police to use a listening device in accordance with the conditions laid down in New South Wales legislation. I think it is appropriate again to advise this House and to remind the House that for the past six or seven years customs officers in the Commonwealth have been using listening devices pursuant to approvals granted under State legislation. So there is nothing new in the legislation in relation to this matter. Indeed, the legislation now being considered by this Parliament will place greater restraints on the use of listening devices in the Commonwealth field in relation to narcotic offences than was previously the case. I think it is well for us to keep that fact in mind as we are giving proper consideration to this matter. 
I think it was the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  who asked me why it is that the Government will not accept even tighter regulations and provisions in relation to the use of eavesdropping devices. Let me say briefly, in conclusion, that the Government believed that, in accepting the spirit of the amendments which we moved in the legislation committee and which sought to shift the authority from the Minister to the judiciary, we were giving effect to the wishes of this Parliament and probably to a large section of the community that feel that every possible precaution should be taken. But, having taken that step to shift it out of the political arena, if you like- out of the arena of administration to the judiciary- we believe that we should leave the position as flexible as possible in the hands of the judiciary. So, having had the opportunity of questioning the customs officials in relation to the particular matter, the judge will be able to make his own decision and his own determination upon the facts that are placed before him. 
Amendments to proposed amendment negatived. 
Amendment agreed to. 
I move amendment No. 7 standing in my name: 
That amendment No. (8) made by the legislation committee be omitted and the following amendment substituted: "(8) Clause 8, page 6, lines 34-36, omit ', but may be revoked by the Minister at any time before the expiration of the period so specified '. ". 
The purpose of this amendment is to retain the provision in the Bill that a warrant may be issued for a period of up to 6 months and to delete the now redundant reference to the revocation of warrants by the Minister. As I informed the legislation committee, the provisions of clause 219B (8) of the Bill provide for a maximum period only. It is envisaged that the maximum period would be requested on few occasions. However, there will be some circumstances in which the issue of a warrant for an extended period is justified. Examples of such circumstances are where a courier is moving around Australia to make a contact or a series of contacts or where there is knowledge of a series of connected events which are dispensed over a long period. I give as an example a conspiracy by a group to import a series of small shipments over a number of months. In such circumstances, the Government is satisfied that, assuming a judge is satisfied as to the appropriateness of the warrant, it is reasonable not to impose bureaucratic procedures requiring repeated applications to a judge during that period. 
In a later amendment- amendment No. 13 standing in my name- there is a further provision limiting the ongoing use of a listening device where the grounds for the issue of a warrant for the use of the device have ceased to exist. In such a case the Comptroller-General of Customs is to be required by law to revoke in writing the warrant in question. 
I move amendment No. 8 standing in my name. 
That amendment No. (9) made by the legislation committee be disagreed to. 
In moving this amendment I would like to address my remarks to amendments Nos (8) and (9). The legislation committee adopted certain amendments proposed by the Opposition to clause 2 19B of the Bill for the giving of detailed affidavits by the Comptroller-General of Customs and also for the judge to make certain endorsements on those affidavits. The Government does not accept these amendments. Rather than the cumbersome and time consuming procedures envisaged by the amendments, the Government has decided to retain the flexible procedures in the Bill. The amendments proposed by the Government standing as amendments Nos (8) and (9) in my name provide for a much less restrictive approach to be taken. This approach relies upon the judge controlling the proceedings in the manner in which he considers appropriate to the circumstances of the case. 
Proposed new section 2 19C set out in amendment No. (9) standing in my name provides that information which is given under oath may be given orally or in any other manner that the judge considers appropriate. This procedure for the issue of warrants is based upon the longstanding provisions of section 10 of the Crimes Act 1914 dealing with the issue of search warrants in relation to criminal offences. 
I move amendment No. (9) standing in my name: 
That amendment No. (10) made by the legislation committee be omitted and the following amendment substituted: 
10) Clause 8, page 7, lines 1-6, omit proposed section 2 1 9C, substitute the following proposed section: "219c. Information furnished to a Judge for the purposes of sub-section (5) or (6) of section 2 19b- 
a ) may be given orally or otherwise; and 
shall include the facts and other grounds on which the applicant considers it necessary that the warrants should be issued." '. 
I move amendment No. 10 standing in my name: 
That amendment No. ( 1 1 ) made by the legislation committee be amended by omitting all words after 'section 219d 
Because of amendments moved by me which provide for the issue of warrants by judges of the Federal Court or of a State or Territory Supreme Court, it is considered no longer necessary to have special emergency provisions in the law. Accordingly, amendment No. 10 deletes the emergency provisions in the Bill. The ability to obtain an emergency warrant is enhanced by the amendments made by amendment No. 9 which enables information to be furnished to a judge orally. This, for example, allows an application to be made to a judge by telephone as envisaged in the amendments made by the legislation committee. 
I move amendment No. 1 1 standing in my name: 
That amendment No. ( 12) made by the legislation committee be disagreed to. 
Amendment No. 1 1 relates to amendment No. (12) made by the legislation committee. It deals with the furnishing of certain documents to the Minister following the issue of a warrant. Provision is made in this amendment for the furnishing of these documents in accordance with proposed section 219L detailed in amendment No. 15 standing in my name. Accordingly, amendment No. (12) made by the legislation committee is superfluous. Since the procedures already proposed by the Government do not adopt the scheme of affidavits proposed by the legislation committee, it is of course inappropriate for the law to require copies of affidavits to be furnished to the Minister. 
I move amendment No. 12 standing in my name: 
That the following amendment be made to the Bill: 
Clause 8, page 7, line 37, omit'or 2 1 9D '. 
Amendment agreed to. 
I move amendment No. 1 3 standing in my name: 
1 ) That the following amendment be made to the Bill: 
Clause 8, page 8, lines 4-9, omit proposed section 219f, substitute the following proposed section: 219F. Where, before a warrant under this Division ceases to be in force, the Comptroller is satisfied that the grounds on which the warrant was issued have ceased to exist, he shall- 
forthwith take such steps as are necessary to ensure that action in pursuance of the warrant (other than the recovery of a listening device or a part of a listening device) is discontinued; and 
b ) by instrument under his hand, revoke the warrant. '. 
The rationale for amendment No. 13 standing in my name has already been evidenced in the context of amendment No. 7. It is proposed that proposed new section 219F be amended to ensure that as soon as the grounds for the issue of a warrant have ceased to exist the Comptroller General of Customs is to ensure that action, pursuant to the warrant, is discontinued. As a formal step the ComptrollerGeneral is also required to formally revoke the warrant in writing. In relation to this provision, consideration was given to taking the matter back to the judge for the issue of the instrument of revocation. However, the conclusion was reached that such a procedure would serve no useful purpose and that such action could prove an inconvenience both to the judge and the administration. It was decided that the preferred course was to provide a legal obligation for the ComptrollerGeneral to ensure that the matter was terminated at the appropriate stage. 
I am personally aware and the Government is well aware of the concern of the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr 
Wilson) that information in the hands of law enforcement agencies may relate to innocent persons who have somehow become involved with a criminal investigation. Of course, the Government shares that concern and always seeks, in the administration of the criminal law, to protect innocent persons against the misuse of information in the hands of the Government or its agencies. However, the Government cannot accept the amendment moved by the honourable member. 
 The essence of successful criminal investigations generally and, in the context of this Bill, of investigations relating to narcotics offences is the ability to obtain, analyse and take appropriate action on intelligence. One aspect of the strategy of the Government in upgrading the fight against illegal drug trafficking is to facilitate and rely upon sophisticated techniques of intelligence gathering and analysis. This approach has already, in recent times, permitted narcotics officers and officers of various police forces to intercept illegal importations into Australia, totalling some hundreds of millions of dollars, of narcotic goods. 
The Government considers that it is essential in the light against illegal narcotics trafficking for the use of intelligence to be facilitated. At the same time it is recognised that involved are important questions of privacy concerning innocent persons. Whilst I would not wish that there be a ban on law enforcement officers following up any leads that at the time look relevant to the investigation of an offence, it is the desire of the Government that systems can be in-built which reinforce existing protections of privacy. It is for this purpose that the Government has asked the Australian Law Reform Commission to report to it generally on the question of privacy. Therefore, the matter raised by the honourable member for Sturt and the matter generally can be further considered and, if necessary, debated in this House upon the receipt of this report. 
The Government does not accept this amendment. As I informed the House in connection with amendment No. 6 standing in my name, the Government intends to stand by the provisions contained in proposed new section 219G(3)(a) as appropriate provisions in the circumstances. As I then said, if in the course of the use of a listening device a fact relevant to the commission of a serious offencesay a murder as suggested by the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  or an act of terrorism- is overheard it would be ludicrous and clearly untenable for the Government not to act upon that information and if relevant use it in a prosecution. In addition, the amendment moved by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  may place a serious obstacle in the path of the well known common law rule that the prosecutor has an obligation to bring evidence before the court, being evidence which may assist the defence in any regard. Such evidence may arise and be recorded as a consequence of the use of these listening devices. 
However, during the break in proceedings this evening the Government has given consideration to the problems raised by the right honourable member for Lowe and by other honourable members on both sides of this House concerning the use of information obtained through a listening device as evidence in a prosecution referred to in proposed new section 2 19G (3) (a) particularly a prosecution relating to a non-narcotics offence. Following this consideration, the Government has decided to seek leave of the House to introduce a further amendment to proposed new section 2 1 9G to make it absolutely clear to the court that it may refuse to permit information gained through a listening device to be given in evidence when to do so would be unfair to the accused. I think that the amendment I have foreshadowed will alleviate most of the concern expressed during the debate this afternoon about the use of information derived by listening to a conversation that some regard as closely related to the status of privilege. 
Motion ( by  Mr Hodges)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
A great deal that has been said in the course of the debate on this amendment has had no direct relevance to the clause under consideration. I understand that some honourable members who were not in the 
House this afternoon felt a desire to make a contribution. I deplored the personal remarks made by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  about my lack of contribution to this debate. It is obvious from that comment that the honourable member has not been in the House in the course of the debate, because I have been making contributions as the debate has proceeded on each amendment. I have given reasons why the Government has accepted or refused to accept amendments. 
The amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson),  which is his second amendment, is consequential upon the first amendment. When the House was dealing with the first amendment, I indicated that the Government would not accept either amendment. I indicated clearly- I repeat it for the benefit of honourable members in the House at this time- that it is the desire of the Government that systems can be built in which reinforce existing protections of privacy. It is for this purpose that the Government has asked the Australian Law Reform Commission to report to it generally on the question of privacy. I suggest that the matter can be further considered and, if necessary, debated in this House upon receipt of this report. 

 - Mr Acting Speaker, I seek leave of the House to introduce a further amendment to clause 8 of the Bill. This amendment was foreshadowed in my comments on the previous amendment, moved by - 
Opposition members- Yes. 
Question put. 
That the amendment  (Mr Wilson's)  be agreed to. 

 Mr Acting Speaker (Mr P. C. Millar) 

Ayes......... 28 
Noes......... 65 
Majority...... 37 

<graphic href="114131197905292_103_4_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="114131197905292_103_4_3_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="114131197905292_103_4_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="114131197905292_103_4_4_P.jpg"></graphic>

Question so resolved in the negative. 
I seek the leave of the House to move a further amendment to clause 8 of the Bill. 
Leave granted. 
-I move: 
That the following amendment be made to the Bill: 
Clause 8, page 9, line 6, insert the following proposed sub-section: 
Where a person is prosecuted before a court for an offence of a kind referred to in paragraph 3 (a), the court may, in its discretion, refuse to permit information referred to in that sub-section to be given in evidence in the proceedings if it is satisfied that it would be unfair to the accused to admit the information in evidence. '. 
This amendment was foreshadowed in my comments on the previous amendment moved by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon).  I said at that time that the amendment which I now propose, which adds a new sub-section (4) to the proposed section 219G, seeks to alleviate many of the problems mentioned in the House this afternoon, and again this evening, concerning the use of information, obtained through a listening device, which is relevant to criminal activity other than narcotics offences. My amendment also covers the admission in evidence of information relevant to a narcotics offence which the court may regard as unfair to the accused. 
The Government's proposed amendment No. 14 and amendment No. 8 standing in the name of the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  deal with the same matter. I am prepared to refrain from moving Government amendment No. 14 standing in my name in favour of amendment No. 8 standing in the name of the honourable member if he is prepared to amend his amendment slightly so that it reads as follows: 
That amendment No. (13) made by the legislation committee be omitted and the following amendment substituted: "( 13) Clause 8, page 9, lines 20-36, omit proposed section 3 1 9j, substitute the following proposed section: 2I9J. The Comptroller-General shall cause to be retained in the records of his Department all warrants issued under section 2 1 9b, all documents furnished to a Judge in connection with the issue of those warrants and all instruments issued under section 2 1 9f revoking warrants issued. '. ". 
As with the last amendment standing in my name, I am prepared to refrain from moving amendment No. 15 standing in my name in favour of amendment No. 9 standing in the name of the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  if the honourable member is prepared to amend that amendment to read: 
That the following amendment be made to the Bill: "Clause 8, page 10, lines 1-4, omit proposed section 2 I9l, substitute the following proposed section:  2 1 9l. ( 1 ) The Comptroller shall furnish to the Minister a copy of each warrant issued under section 2 1 9B, a copy of all documents furnished to a Judge in connection with the issue of the warrant and of each instrument issued under section 2 1 9F revoking such a warrant as soon as practicable after the issue or revocation of the warrant. 
The Comptroller shall furnish to the Minister, in respect of each warrant issued under section 219B. a report in writing on the extent to which action taken under the warrant has assisted officers of Customs in narcotics inquiries that have been made by them.'.". 
As I indicated to the legislation committee at the time a similar amendment was proposed by the Opposition, the Government is not prepared to accept this amendment but would be prepared to accept an amendment that the responsible Minister shall arrange for the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives to be briefed from time to time on matters relating to narcotic offences. The Opposition has decided to come before the House with both amendments, since the amendment that I foreshadowed the Government would accept is not contained in amendment No. 12, standing in the name of the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi).  I should say that the practical reason why the Government is not prepared to accept that there be a public reporting to the Parliament of the use of listening devices, in contrast to private reporting to the Leader of the Opposition, is that the making public of these details would undoubtedly assist the planning and execution of criminal activities relating to narcotics, to the detriment of the investigation of those activities. 
I am glad to have the assurance of the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi).  It will be of interest to the House to know that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  have agreed that because of the immense importance of this matter it be dealt with on a bipartisan basis. That decision was reached by the two leaders prior to this legislation being introduced into the House. To my knowledge the Leader of the Opposition has had at least one briefing from officers of my Department. Under the arrangement, of course, he can be briefed at any time he wishes. What we are seeking to do now is to write into the legislation an arrangement which I understand is acceptable to both sides of the House. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause 8, as further amended, agreed to. 

 Wednesday, 30 May 1979 

The Government cannot accept either amendment moved by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman).  The comments I make now refer to both amendments. It is central to the thinking of the Government in relation to these pecuniary penalty provisions that the proof of importation of narcotic goods should be no more difficult than the proof of importation for criminal purposes. The Government has no desire to tie together for a pecuniary penalty criminal proceedings and civil proceedings. The pecuniary penalty provisions are designed to operate irrespective of whether the Crown brings a criminal action against a particular person. 
The Government recognises that these provisions contain harsh elements. No apology is made for that fact. It is part of an upgrading of the war against drug trafficking. The alternative, for all practical purposes, is to let the financiers and the back-room boys go free and enjoy the fruits of their illicit investment. The whole process relating to receiverships and the order of a pecuniary penalty is under the control of the Federal Court of Australia with the provision of ample opportunity for persons to address the Court on any relevant matter. The provisions of proposed new section 243G will enable the Court to intervene at anytime on the motion of any involved person. 
It would appear that the intention of the amendment moved by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon),  which is similar to amendment No. 14 made by the legislation committee, is to ensure that in cases for the recovery of pecuniary penalties all matters relating to a prescribed narcotics dealing, including the fact that narcotic goods have been imported into Australia in contravention of the Act, be proven to the satisfaction of the court beyond reasonable doubt. 
I indicated to the legislation committee that the Government could not accept an amendment having the purpose of requiring proof beyond reasonable doubt in respect of these matters. For practical purposes such a provision would, in the view of the Government, make the provisions for the order of a pecuniary penalty virtually useless. The purpose of the pecuniary penalties provisions is that they are an additional method of attacking illicit trafficking of narcotics by providing a framework within the civil law for an order, in the nature of public damages, for the Crown to be awarded the benefits derived from these dealings. Such a law is to be placed, if it is to have any impact in the narcotics trade, on the same footing as commercial law generally. To treat it as criminal law is to deny the basic purpose for its introduction. 
These amendments provide for a much stricter burden of proof in this civil action than the burden of proof presently provided for in other closely related provisions of the Customs Actfor example, proposed section 229A dealing with the seizure and forfeiture of money and goods. Further, it would be stricter than the standard of proof required in many of the provisions of proposed section 233B of the Customs Act, the criminal provisions relating to narcotics. However, the Government feels that the appropriate standard of proof in these actions for a pecuniary penalty could be allowed greater flexibility. Accordingly, amendment No. 16 standing in my name and listed on the order of business as item 33, deletes in its entirety proposed new section 243E of the Bill. This Government amendment will enable the relevant court to determine the standard of proof appropriate to the circumstances of a particular case. I seek the support of the House for amendment No. 16 standing in my name and for the rejection of the proposed amendments listed as items 3 1 and 32. 
I have already indicated to the House the Government's proposals with regard to proposed section 243E in the Bill. Consistent with my comments on the amendment moved by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon),  the Government does not accept amendment No. 1 1 moved by the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi). 
Amendment negatived. 
I move amendment No. 16 standing in my name: 
That amendment No. (14) made by the legislation committee be amended by omitting all words after " section 243e". 
It would appear that the intention of amendment No. 14 made by the legislation committee was to ensure that in cases for the recovery of pecuniary penalties, all matters relating to a prescribed narcotics dealing, including the fact that narcotic goods had been imported into Australia in contravention of the Act, be proved to the satisfaction of the court beyond reasonable doubt. I indicated to the legislation committee that the Government could not accept an amendment having the purpose of requiring proof beyond reasonable doubt in respect of these matters. For practical purposes such a provision, in the view of the Government, would make the provisions for the order of a pecuniary penalty virtually useless. 
The purpose of the provisions which provide for pecuniary penalties is an additional method of attacking illicit trafficking of narcotics- by providing a framework within the civil law for an order in the nature of public damages for the Crown to be awarded the benefits derived from these dealings. Such a law is to be placed, if it is to have any impact in the narcotics trade, on the same footing as commercial law generally. To treat it as criminal law is to deny the basic purpose for its introduction. 
The legislation committee amendments provide for a much stricter burden of proof in this civil action than the burden of proof presently provided for in other closely related provisions of the Customs Act, for example, section 22 9A dealing with the seizure and forfeiture of money and goods. Further, it would be stricter than the standard of proof required in many of the provisions of section 233B of the Customs Act- the criminal provisions relating to narcotics. 
However, the Government feels that the appropriate standard of proof in these actions for a pecuniary penalty could be allowed greater flexibility. Accordingly, amendment No. 16 deletes, in its entirety, proposed section 243E of the Bill, thus enabling the relevant court to determine the standard of proof appropriate to the circumstances of a particular case. 
As I have already indicated, the Government is prepared to accept this amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
I move: 
That the following amendment be made to the Bill: 
Clause 15, page 26, proposed Schedule VIII, 

<graphic href="114131197905292_114_0.jpg"></graphic>

Firstly, the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  earlier this evening referred to this amendment and suggested that I had made a statement on the advice of my Department that a decimal point had been incorrectly placed and should be moved two places to the right. I can assure the honourable member that I made no such statement, nor do I accept that such a statement was made by my Department. In fact, I believe that the honourable member was reading from a document prepared for him by his own office, which he quite wrongly attributed to my Department. 
During the debate in the legislation committee it was suggested that the commercial quantities of lysergic acid and lysergicide, as specified in Schedule 8 to the Bill, appeared to be inconsistent when measured against the commercial quantities specified for other drugs. At that time, I indicated to the committee that the commercial quantities specified in proposed Schedule 8 were calculated on the basis of approximately 1,000 times the traffickable quantity which is specified in schedule 6 to the Customs Act 1901. I also indicated to the committee that I would have the matter of the commercial quantities of these two drugs re-examined. As a result of this reexamination, it has been determined that the quantities so specified for these two drugs are excessive when compared with the commercial quantities specified for the other drugs set out in Schedule 8 to the Bill. Accordingly, the purpose of amendment No. 17 standing in my name is to amend Schedule 8 of the Bill to correct this anomaly. 
The debate on this measure still has not been completed by the House and there will be ample opportunity to canvass most of the matters raised by the honourable member for Adelaide during the remainder of that debate. As to the part of the question concerning the reason for the adjournment of the debate last night, I advise the honourable member and the House that the Government has received representations from a number of bodies in relation to the Florence Convention, which relates to the free flow of information between countries with particular relevance to printed material, films and the like. The Government believed that it had a responsibility to adjourn the debate so that those representations could be carefully considered. Consideration is being given to them at the moment. We will bring on the debate again as soon as possible and let the House and the public at large know the result of our deliberations and consideration. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to give effect to the Government's decision to provide assistance by way of a bounty to Australian manufacturers of injection-moulding machines, used in the production of artificial plastic goods, and to Australian manufacturers of parts, excluding dies, for these machines if the parts are designed soley or principally for use in the manufacture or repair of the machines. This decision has been made following receipt of advice and recommendations by the Industries Assistance Commission- contained in Report No. 191 of 12 December 1978 on 'miscellaneous industrial machinery'- that the existing tariff assistance to this industry of 55 per cent ad valorem be reduced to 15 per cent ad valorem and transitional assistance to eligible Australian manufacturers be accorded by way of a scheme providing for the payment of a bounty scaling down over five years from the date upon which the change to the tariff assistance became effective. On 22 May 1979I introduced into this House the necessary tariff proposals to give effect, from 23 May 1979, to the reduction in the tariff assistance to the industry. Bounty will be payable from that date at the rate of 45 per cent of the value added by the Australian manufacturers and this rate will reduce by ten percentage points per annum during the five-year period to which the Act applies. 
In deciding to reduce the tariff assistance to this industry the Government took into account the comments made by the Industries Assistance Commission that it could not identify benefits to the community commensurate with such high levels of assistance as provided by a tariff of 55 per cent ad valorem. It is considered by the Government that the reduction in the tariff assistance will lower the cost structure of the plastic products industries- the principal users of the machines- and therefore increase their competitiveness in world markets. In addition, this action should eventually give rise to increased employment opportunities in this Australian industry. On the other hand, the decision to accord the transitional bounty assistance is designed to satisfy two requirements: First, that each process in the production of injection-moulding machines receives the same rate of assistance in order to achieve balanced resource allocation within the industry; second, that the period of the phasing down of the bounty is sufficient to allow the industry to restructure so as to become competitive at a more moderate level of assistance. This is particularly important because of rapidly changing technology in injection-moulding machinery and the time required to restructure production methods in this industry. During the period of the phasing down of the bounty there will be regular and thorough monitoring so that the Government is kept informed of the industry's ability to adjust to the new assistance arrangements. Officers of the Department of Industry and Commerce will contact industry representatives to establish a regular reporting system. 
The proposed bounty scheme differs from the Commission's recommendations in one respect. Bounty will not be paid on equipment sold for export. The Government has decided not to adopt this recommendation because any exports upon which bounty is paid could be subject to taxes, in the form of countervailing duties, in certain important export markets. The imposition of these taxes would of course negate the competitive advantage derived from any bounty that is paid. However, during the period of adjustment of this industry over the next five years, it is expected that local manufacturers will become more competitive and thus be in a more advantageous position to develop their export markets. The cost of this scheme in the first year of its operation is estimated to be $ 1.5m and information presently available to the Government indicates that the total cost for the five-year duration of the scheme will be approximately $4.2m. Finally, I would add that the Industries Assistance Commission report, which I referred to earlier, has not yet been released. It will be made available when an announcement has been made by the Government on the other products covered by that report. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
I draw to the attention of the honourable member for Hughes and the House a paragraph that was contained in my statement at the time of  Mr Bates's  resignation. It states:   . . that  Mr Bates  gave as his reasons he did not believe that all the facts were before the Government when it took a decision to conduct an inquiry into allegations relating to the Narcotics Bureau; he had not been personally consulted and that while he had no objection whatsoever to the establishment of an independent inquiry, he objected to the manner in which it had been brought about and as a result the composition of the investigation team. 
That statement was contained in the media release that I issued at the time of  Mr Bates's  resignation. That is the explanation that he gave me at the time of his resignation for the action that he had taken. He indicated to me that he did not feel that it was appropriate for the investigation to be carried out by a multi-police unit. That is the decision that has been taken by the Government. The investigating team will consist of a senior officer of the Victoria Police Force, a senior officer of the Commonwealth Police Force and senior officers of the New South Wales and Queensland police forces, a group of four policemen in total. 
When I learnt he had handed his resignation into the Department I asked him to reconsider his decision. He said that he felt he could not. I must say that he was emotionally distressed at the time. I judged at the weekend that I should contact him again, which I did. I invited him to see me. At that time I invited him to reconsider his decision. I did that because I believed the man was under great stress at the time. He had given long and valuable service to the Commonwealth under successive governments. He had given long and valuable service in this difficult field of narcotics law enforcement. I spoke with him at great length on and off during yesterday. I put to nlm that he could do more back at his desk than in retirement in the interests of the work that has been his life work. He said that having made a decision to resign, to withdraw or seek to withdraw that resignation was a difficult decision to take. Having taken the decision he took late last week, he wondered whether he could be effective back at his desk. I said I believed he could. I emphasised to him in my office in front of the permanent head of my Department that there was no way in which the Government would change its decision in relation to the investigation. That was a Government decision and it would stand. I told him there would be no deals and no undertakings would be given. I was inviting him to return to his post if he so desired. He indicated to me late yesterday afternoon that he would return to his post and a news release was issued. I answered a number of questions in public late last evening similar to the one put to me by the honourable member for Hughes. 
For the information of honourable members I present reports of the Industries Assistance Commission on acetyl products, oxo alcohols, butyl acetates, et cetera and vices. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Trade Practices Consultative Committee on the operation of the Trade Practices Act in relation to primary production in Australia. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)-  by leave- agreed to: 
That this House, in accordance with the provisions of the Parliamentary Papers Act 1908, authorises the publication of the report of the Trade Practices Consultative Committee. 
The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  has raised this matter today. Of course it is understandable he would in the light of the events of the past few days.  His  major point concerns the investigation that is about to take place into the allegations by two deceased persons, a  Mr and Mrs Wilson.  They alleged that information contained on tapes made by the Queensland police was made available to the Narcotics Bureau. A member of the Narcotics Bureau was present, as I understand it, during the time that the Wilsons were being interrogated. During that interview allegations were made that information was being leaked from the Narcotics Bureau to people outside who were engaged in drug trafficking. The form of investigation which the Government has decided upon is a police investigation. The honourable member raises the question as to how the members who are to take part in this investigation were chosen. Clearly, there are four police components involved, the Commonwealth police, the Queensland police, the Victorian police and the New South Wales police. The Wilson investigations and the Wilson allegations in some way connect with those three States. So it was decided by the Government that senior officers of those four forces would make up the investigating team. 
The advice before the Government indicated that the kind of investigation that needed to be carried out was one that should properly be carried out by police and not a royal commission. It is possible that as a result of the investigation I am referring to, criminal charges will be laid. It is possible. All that we have at the moment are allegations. But they are serious allegations and need to be investigated fully by the police. When the Government issued the statement of its intention to establish this investigating team, it said that action was being taken to advise the Federal Government National Royal Commission of Inquiry into Drugs. It also stated that the AttorneyGeneral would receive a report in due course from the investigating team and that that report would also be made available to the royal commission. So in so far as the royal commission may have an interest or responsibility in this matter, the information gathered by the investigating team will ultimately be made available to it. 
When this matter was first raised it was raised with me as a result of a newspaper article that had appeared on the front page of the Melbourne  Sun News-Pictorial  on Monday of last week. That was the first advice I had that an allegation had been made that information had been leaked from the Narcotics Bureau to a drug trafficking ring. However, it is important to keep in mind that in the  Daily Telegraph  of Monday, 26 March, 1979, there was a report of tapes but no reference to the Narcotics Bureau; that report came out of Queensland. The Commonwealth Government is extremely concerned with the allegations which have been made and which will be properly investigated by the police investigating team. It is a team that is outside my administration, and quite properly so. It is an external investigation. The Minister responsible for that team will be the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr McLeay)  within whose portfolio Commonwealth Police are situated. The Government is concerned not only with these allegationsthey are serious and are being investigated- but also with the whole question of illicit drug trafficking in this country. 
I was appointed to this portfolio on 17 July 1977. As I recall the date, it was two days after 
Don Mackay of Griffith disappeared after playing a leading and responsible part in a public campaign against drug trafficking. I was aware of the fact that the Narcotics Bureau was within what had become my ministerial portfolio. Like all responsible Australians, I was concerned about the menace of drug trafficking and what it means in terms of destruction of human life. I was concerned about allegations and reports that were appearing in the media in relation to alleged drug trafficking activities. I harboured a desire to ensure that whatever needed to be done at Commonwealth level would be done to maximise the Commonwealth's effort against illicit drug trafficking. I discussed the matter with my departmental advisers and subsequently the Government. The Government decided that action should be commenced on two fronts. Firstly, it should establish a national royal commission into drugs, a wide-ranging inquiry into all aspects of this sordid activity. In taking that decision, the Government knew that that would be a time consuming route. Nevertheless it was something that needed to be done, something that ought to be done. So the Government took this decision. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  announced the Government's decision on 5 October 1977. 
Secondly, without in any way prejudicing the outcome of the Royal Commission, the Government believed that action should be taken to upgrade the facilities and strengthen the legislation in relation to penalties and surveillance. It was in January of 1978 that I announced a package of new initiatives in this field. The Government has either put into place those initiatives that were announced or is in the process of doing so. In the terms of reference of the Royal Commission item (e) states:  the adequacy of existing laws (including the appropriateness of the penalties) and of existing law enforcement (including arrangements for co-operation between law enforcement agencies) in relation to the prohibition, restriction or control of the importation, exportation, production, possession, supply or use of, or trafficking in, drugs. 
Undoubtedly, the Royal Commission will be interested in the events of the past few days, and when the Royal Commissioner receives the report that will be forwarded to the AttorneyGeneral, he will examine that report and take whatever additional action he believes is necessary in the circumstances. The honourable member for Adelaide accused the Government of forcing the legislation through this House when it had knowledge of the allegations. I do not believe that the honourable member for Adelaide made that accusation lightly, nor do I believe that he intended to mislead the House. 
The facts are that the newspaper article which was the vehicle by which I first learnt of the existence of the Wilson allegations in relation to leakage of information appeared on 28 May. The legislation had been proceeding through this House for some time before then, and indeed it passed through this House on 29 May, which was the day after the publication of the newspaper article to which I refer. 
I wish to sum up in this way. Firstly, I indicate to the honourable member for Adelaide and to every member of this House that so far as the Government is concerned, so far as I am concerned, we will do everything possible, we will provide whatever facilities we can, to ensure that a maximum effort is prosecuted to reduce the incidence of drug trafficking in Australia. Secondly, the Government's decision to have these allegations properly investigated by a police team is an appropriate decision. In saying that, I emphasise that the information will be available to the Royal Commission. It is necessary for the investigation to be a police investigation because there is a possibility that it will lead to the laying of criminal charges. 
Thirdly, I wish to comment further on what I said at Question Time today. On Sunday I got in touch with  Mr Harvey  Bates, the Commissioner of the Narcotics Bureau, and in conference yesterday, as I indicated at Question Time, I invited him to withdraw his resignation. I repeat what I said at Question Time: There were no bargains; there were no deals. I indicated to  Mr Bates  that the decision the Government had taken would stand and that the investigation would be carried out by the police in the manner that was announced on Friday. It was obviously difficult for him to contemplate coming back to his position after having resigned. He took the decision, and when he met last night with the media he said that the only reason he came back to his post was his desire to continue the work in which he has been involved for many years and to wage a war. He did not use the word war; but he indicated that he wanted to continue in the fight against drug trafficking. 
I move: 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill provides for the validation until 31 December 1979 of duties collected in pursuance of Customs Tariff Proposals Nos 16 to 19 introduced into the Parliament at various times since 3 May 1979 and not covered by the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill 1979 introduced into the House on 22 May 1979. Under section 226 of the Customs Act the collection of duties in pursuance of Customs Tariff Proposals is protected against legal challenge for six months or until the close of the session of Parliament, whichever occurs first. The introduction and passage of a validation Bill is therefore a necessary machinery measure which takes over from section 226 pending the introduction of a customs tariff amendment Bill, anticipated for the Budget sittings, to enact the changes contained in the Proposals. 
The tariff changes validated by this Bill relate to decisions of the Government on the following reports by the Industries Assistance Commission: 
Nuts, Bolts and Screws- Proposals No. 16, introduced 3 May 1979. 
Australian Citrus Industry- Proposals No. 1 7, introduced 3 May 1 979. 
Miscellaneous Industrial Machinery (relative to Injection Moulding Machines)Proposals No. 1 8, introduced 22 May 1 979. 
Acetyl Products; Oxo Alcohols, Butyl Alcohols, et cetera, Vices- Proposals No. 19, introduced 5 June 1979. 
Details of the changes involved were supplied to honourable members at the time of introduction of the relevant Tariffproposals. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to enact the excise tariff alteration introduced into Parliament on 2 May 1979 by Excise Tariff Proposals No. 4. 
These proposals increased the excise duty on naturally occurring liquefied petroleum gasLPGfrom $13 per kilolitre to $14 per kilolitre following a domestic price rise of $27 per tonne by local producers effective 30 April 1979. 
In November 1978, the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman),  when announcing the Government's policy to offset additional profits accruing to producers of naturally occurring LPG, indicated that the domestic price would be kept under review and that where necessary the excise duty would be increased accordingly. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
There are two amendments that the Government wishes to make to this Bill, and I seek leave to move both amendments together. 
Leave granted. 
-I move: 
1 ) Pages 3 to 7 (inclusive), Schedule, omit the Schedule up to but not including the heading 'AMENDMENTS OF PART I OF SCHEDULE 5 ', substitute the following: 

<graphic href="114131197906051_32_0.jpg"></graphic>

AMENDMENTS OF PART IV OF SCHEDULE 1 
l.Omit-'Item 29.39'. 
Omit-'Sub-item 29.44.9'. 3.0mit-'Item 30.05'. 
Omit-'Sub-item 34.02. 1 '. 5.Omit-'Item37.04'. 
Omit-' Item 37.07'. 
Omit-'Sub-item 84.08.9'. 
Omit-' Paragraph 84.23. 1 1 '. 
Omit-'Sub-item 84.6 1 .2 '. 
Omit-' Paragraph 85.01.9'. 
1. Omit-'Sub-item 87.01.2; Paragraph 87.01.31 '. 
2. Omit-'Sub-item 90. 1 7.9 '. 
3. Omit-'Sub-item 90.25.9 '. 
Omit-'Sub-item 90.28.9'. 

<graphic href="114131197906051_33_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="114131197906051_34_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="114131197906051_35_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="114131197906051_35_3.jpg"></graphic>

types of publications listed in Annexure A to the Agreement. 
It would have been good to learn from the Minister how this mistake was made. The Opposition can only assume that it was a mistake that these particular items were included originally in the Bill because successive governments previously have not breached the spirit of the Florence convention. We can put it down to the usual stop-start methods used by the Fraser Government when it comes to Budgets. We can readily draw to our memories the changes after the last Budget in August 1978, when many items had to be removed and many changes had to be made because of sloppy preparation. The same situation applies to the horror mini-budget of 24 May this year. Already this change is being made. However, the Opposition is against the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill altogether. We have just had a vote on the measure. We do not have the numbers to stop what was originally an $80m impost being drawn from the Australian people, but at least this amendment will reduce that amount to $73m. To that extent, it is welcomed. The Opposition will not be opposing this particular amendment, but at least on the voices we will be opposing the Bill again on the third reading. 
by leave- I wish to inform the House that the Government will move several amendments to the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill during the Committee stage. The amendments relate to goods covered by a United Nations agreement on the importation of educational, scientific and cultural materials. Whilst Australia is not a signatory to the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation convention commonly known as the Florence Agreement, it has generally adhered to its general policy of not impeding, by the imposition of customs duties, the free flow of educational, scientific and cultural material into Australia. Following announcement of the Government's intention to apply a 2 per cent ad valorem revenue customs duty on goods currently imported duty free, the Government has received representations from a number of bodies requesting that the exemptions from the 2 per cent revenue duty be extended to such goods covered by the Florence Agreement. 
I mentioned in this House at Question Time last week that these representations were being given careful consideration. As a result, the Government has now decided to exempt from the 2 per cent revenue duty such goods as are covered by the Florence Agreement. These include printed books, newspapers, journals, music, maps, plans, film, instruments, gramophone records, paintings, antiques, et cetera. In addition, the Government has also decided to exempt from the revenue duty certain paper and cinematographic film currently imported duty free and which form inputs into these goods when produced in Australia. Although this will mean the raising of approximately $7m less than anticipated, these further exemptions should maintain the policy of allowing educational, scientific and cultural goods to continue to enter Australia duty free, and to continue duty free inputs into such goods when manufactured locally. 
The allegations that appeared last Monday week in a report in the Melbourne  Sun News-Pictorial  concerning alleged leakages of information from the Narcotics Bureau were not brought to my attention. When I read the report I asked for advice and I received confirmation that that information was contained within the records of the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs. I have asked the Secretary of the Department to ensure that information that is relevant to the conduct of the Department, particularly information regarding allegations against any member of the Department is brought to my attention. 
-The only allegations that I can recall that have been brought to my notice regarding other examples of alleged infiltration into the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs are those where investigations have been made, where charges have been laid and prosecutions pursued. As I indicated when answering the previous question asked on this matter, I have asked the permanent head of the Department to ensure that in future any allegation that is made relating to any officer of my Department, whether it happens to concern an officer within the Federal Narcotics Bureau or elsewhere, is brought to my attention. If allegations of the kind referred to by the honourable member- and of the kind about which I am sure every honourable member of this House is concerned- are brought to my notice, I will ensure that appropriate action is taken. 
I repeat that these serious allegations first came to my notice early in the morning of last Monday week when a reporter from the Melbourne  Herald  telephoned me at my hotel and asked me whether I was able to comment on the report that had appeared on the front page of the  Sun News-Pictorial  on that day. I responded to the reporter and indicated that I would seek immediate advice from the permanent head of my Department and the Commissioner of the Federal Narcotics Bureau. I did that and I received advice. I received confirmation that those allegations had been made and that they were contained in transcripts of tapes that had been referred to in the Press article. The debate on this matter continued on the Tuesday, which was the day following the allegations. I did not believe that it was incumbent upon me to introduce that subject into the debate at the time for two reasons: Firstly, it was public knowledge that those allegations had been made. By that time, the report of the allegations had appeared in media other than the  Sun News-Pictorial.  Secondly, consideration was being given to what kind of investigation should be carried out. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I would like to suggest that it might suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Bounty (Books) Amendment Bill 1979 as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the two Bills to be discussed in this debate. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1979 as they are related measures. Separate questions will of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the two Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) An allegation was made in 1978 relating to the alleged falsification of Customs documents emanating from the Philippines Embassy in order to obtain various goods under diplomatic privilege but the allegation was not specifically made against any official in the Embassy. 
In the course of inquiries a Customs officer did make an informal request to interview persons in the Philippines Embassy. This request was declined at the time by the recently arrived Charge d 'Affaires who indicated that she wanted the opportunity to make a personal assessment of the situation. 
Yes. 
The investigation did not disclose any abuse of diplomatic privilege by any official in the Philippines Embassy and the Bureau of Customs is satisfied that further inquiries in that direction are not warranted. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The present composition of the National Standing Control Committee on Drugs of Dependence ( N.S.C.C. ) is as follows: 
Commonwealth Representatives 
Secretary, Department of Business and Consumer Affairs (Chairman); 
Deputy Director General, Department of Health ( Deputy Chairman); 
Senior Assistant Secretary, Criminal Law Branch, Attorney-General 's Department; 

 Chairman of the Drug Education Sub-Committee (exofficio member). 
State Representatives 
Permanent Head (or his nominee) of respective State Health Commissions or Health Departments; 
Representatives of Chief Secretary's or Justice Departments; 
Officers-in-Charge of State Police Drug Squads. 
The N.S.C.C. reports to a Committee of Federal and State Government Ministers concerned with the problem of drug trafficking and abuse. The role of the N.S.C.C. is to make recommendations to the Ministerial Committee which then decides on appropriate action. 
Trafficable quantities were introduced into Federal and State legislation in 1 970-7 1 . Quantities were determined by the N.S.C.C 
Factors taken into consideration by the Committee were: quantities specified in similar legislation overseas; quantities of each particular drug which were seen to be consistent with personal use; where no other information was available SO times the maximum therapeutic dose shown in the British Pharmacopoeia. 
In October 1976 the N.S.C.C. again considered the schedule of trafficable quantities in the light of a decision to increase the maximum penalty for offences involving trafficable quantities and the amounts then seen to be consistent with personal use. 
As a result it was recommended by the N.S.C.C. that the quantities specified in the schedule be increased by a multiple of 4. 
Federal legislation was amended in November 1977 to reflect both the revised schedule and the increased penalties. 
I move: 
Customs Tariffproposals Nos 20 to 27 ( 1979) and Excise Tariffproposals Nos 5 and 6 ( 1979). 
Pursuant to section 30b of the Industries Assistance Commission Act 1973 I present the reports of the Temporary Assistance Authority on continuation of assistance for insulators and continuation of assistance for sheets and plates of iron and steel. These reports were distributed to honourable members during the adjournment. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
For the information of the honourable members I present reports of the Industries Assistance Commission on: Certain electric motors- short term assistance; bags, sacks and certain polyolefin fabrics; hoists, pulley tackle and winches; travel goods, brief cases, toilet cases and similar goods; confectionery, chocolate and cocoa products; chemical products, part A; and miscellaneous industrial machinery. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
I ask for leave of the House to move a motion to discharge certain tariff proposals which were moved earlier in the year and which constitute part of Order of the Day No. 37. These proposals were incorporated in the Customs Tariff Amendment Bill 1979, the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill 1979 and the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1979 which have now been assented to. 
Leave granted. 
Motion (by  Mr Fife)  agreed to: 
That the following tariff proposals, constituting part of Order of the Day No. 37, Government Business, be discharged: Customs Tariff Proposals Nos 1 to IS (1979) and Excise Tariffproposals Nos I to 4 ( 1 979). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Maximum justified wholesale prices in Melbourne on the dates specified in (a) to (g), for major petroleum products supplied by companies that were required to notify their prices to the Prices Justification Tribunal in that period, are shown in the attached tables. 
Maximum justified wholesale prices for all petroleum products supplied by these companies in all localities would take considerable time and resources to compile. However, the trend in prices justified for Melbourne would be indicative of the trend in maximum justified wholesale prices throughout Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Australian Bureau of Statistics does not compile information on the Australian production of LP gas cylinders, the ultimate usage of imported gas cylinders or their suitability for particular applications. 
However, the following table shows total imports of cylinders for compressed or liquefied gas, excluding cryogenic type cylinders, for 1977-78 and the period July 1978 to March 1979. 
Details for the latter period are preliminary. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) No inspection of imported crab meat is made by my Department to ascertain whether substitute products are included. 
I understand that clam meat is a rare and expensive delicacy in Asia where supply does not meet the demand. There is therefore a great price disparity between clam meat and the much cheaper and more abundant crab meat. In these circumstances there would appear to be little possibility of the substitution of clam for crab meat. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
2 ) and ( 3 ) I am not in possession of this information. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
An investigation by the Bureau of Customs established that certain metal roofing tiles had been incorrectly entered for Customs purposes and that a substantial amount of duty had been shortpaid. In the course of inquiries Customs officers visited the premises of importers in a number of States to ascertain the reason for the short payment of Customs duty. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Only one Narcotics Bureau Officer has been charged with offences relating to drugs since the establishment of the Bureau. On 17 July 1974 the officer was suspended pending a full investigation into his activities. The officer resigned on 1 9 July 1 974. Investigations were continued and he was subsequently arrested and charged on 29 May 1 975. 
) The specific charges were as follows: 
Section 86 (1 ) (A)- Commonwealth Crimes Act. Conspire with others to commit an offence against Section 233b ( 1 ) (b) of the Customs Act (i.e. importing or attempting to import drugs). 
Section 233b ( 1 ) (d)- Customs Act. Knowingly concerned in the importation into Australia of prohibited imports to which the Section applies (i.e. drugs). 
Section 71(1 )- Commonwealth Crimes Act. Stealing property belonging to the Commonwealth (i.e. 35 lbs of cannabis resin). 
At the time of his suspension the officer was an acting Chief Investigator, his substantive rank was Senior Investigator. 
) The outcome  of the charges  was: 
Section 86 ( 1 ) (A) - Commonwealth Crimes Act- dismissed; 
Section 233b ( 1 ) (d)- Customs Act-convicted- 7 years gaol, minimum period to be served 6 years; 
Section 7 1 ( 1 )- Commonwealth Crimes Actconvicted 5 years gaol, minimum period to be served 4 years. 
The sentences detailed above were cumulative resulting in an effective maximum sentence of 12 years. These sentences were also in addition to a sentence of 500 days for absconding whilst on bail. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 27 June 1 979, the Prime Minister announced a new energy policy which among other things provided for the removal of the tax on liquefied petroleum gas used in the propulsion of road vehicles. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Records available to me indicate that: 
There are seven brands of coated galvanised steel house tiles marketed in Australia. These are: 
I will be happy to give very careful consideration to the honourable member's question and let him have an answer at a later date. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to extend the operation of the nitrogenous fertilisers subsidy scheme for a further year until 3 1 December 1980 at a rate of subsidy of $20 per tonne of nitrogen content. The current subsidy of $40 per tonne of nitrogen content will continue to be paid until 3 1 December 1 979. The extension of the operation of this scheme was foreshadowed by my colleague the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in his statement to the House on 24 May 1979 concerning decisions on expenditure and taxation. The cost to the Government of this scheme during 1980 is estimated to be $5m. 
The reduction in the rate of subsidy during 1980 is in accordance with an earlier Government decision, announced in the 1976-77 Budget Speech, that the subsidy on nitrogenous fertilisers would be phased out. This decision followed the Government's consideration of a report by the Industries Assistance Commission on 5 September 1975. In that report the Commission recommended that the subsidy should be progressively reduced and cease on 31 December 1978. However the Government decided to review the scheme on an annual basis and set an appropriate rate of subsidy taking into account the outlook for the user industries and the need to maintain budgetary restraint over public expenditure. 
The Bill proposes that from 1 January 1980 until 31 December 1980 subsidy will be payable in respect of locally produced nitrogenous fertilisers which are sold for use in Australia as fertiliser and also in respect of imported nitrogenous fertilisers which are either used in Australia as a fertiliser by the importer or are sold by the importer for such use in Australia. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Pre-term Foundation was incorporated in the Australian Capital Territory as a company limited by guarantee on 28 May 1 974. Under the ACT Companies Ordinance, the company was not required to file its first accounts with the ACT Corporate Affairs Office until December 1 975. 
The company has filed with that Office accounts for the years ending 30 June 1 975, 30 June 1 976, 30 June 1 977 and 30 June 1 978. These accounts are available there for public inspection. 
Copies of these accounts have been sent to you. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (b) Tariff changes can have the effect of altering the competitive position of imports and no doubt some adjustment of the competitive positions of Australian and New Zealand companies have taken place since 1977 as a result of such changes. 
If Australian exporters feel they are disadvantaged by tariff changes in New Zealand the matter should be raised with my colleague the Minister for Trade and Resources. Australian industries who feel they are disadvantaged by tariff changes in Australia should raise the matter with the relevant industry Minister. 
DC9 Aircraft (Question No. 4155) 
The reason why there is some doubt as to who might answer this question is that there are two or three aspects of it. First of all, there is the two-airline policy which is the responsibility of my colleague, the Minister for Transport. Then, of course, there is the overriding question of company law in Australia. This is basic to the question which has just been asked by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. It gives me an opportunity to say that this country could have had uniform company legislation, and this country could have had a uniform scheme that would be watching this kind of activity, if it had not been for the obstruction of a Labor government in New South Wales. The legislation has been drafted and has been ready for months. 
It is a fact that I undertook to give consideration to the question referred to by the honourable gentleman. I regard it as a very important question and I am still giving consideration to it. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is the first step towards giving effect to the legislative obligations of the Commonwealth under the formal agreement which was executed by the Commonwealth and all States on 22 December 1978. A copy of the agreement, setting out the obligations of the parties, is a schedule to the Bill. The Bill establishes the National Companies and Securities Commission. The Commission will be a body corporate responsible to the Ministerial Council for Companies and Securities which has been estabished pursuant to the formal agreement. The Commission is to have such functions and powers as are conferred on it by Commonwealth and State companies and securities industry legislation. 
In order that this national Commission will have the necessary powers to administer that legislation in the States, each State is required under the Agreement to pass legislation which complements this Bill. An Australian Capital Territory ordinance is also being prepared to provide for the establishment of the Office of Commissioner for Corporate Affairs for the Australian Capital Territory to enable the companies and securities industry legislation to be administered in that Territory. 
I outlined to the Parliament on 6 March 1979 the main elements of the scheme which are embodied in the formal agreement. Essentially, the agreement provides the framework for a cooperative, Commonwealth-State scheme for a uniform system of law and administration regulating companies and the securities industry. The scheme covers the relevant law operating in the six States and the Australian Capital Territory. There is also provision for the scheme to be extended to the Northern Territory and to the external Territories of the Commonwealth. 
This Government believes that it has certain national responsibilities in the field of companies and securities which can only be discharged by a significant level of Commonwealth involvement. In 1974, the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange found that the present system of regulation of the securities markets in Australia was fragmented and unco-ordinated. That is equally true of the other areas of company law that may not impinge directly on the securities market. The Senate Committee accordingly proposed a national system of regulation. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, there is widespread support in the community for Commonwealth involvement in a national system of companies and securities industry regulation. There are, however, differences between this Government and the Opposition on how that involvement is to be brought about. The former Labor Government opted for unilateral action by the Commonwealth insofar as it proposed to legislate without consultation with the States and rely solely on the Commonwealth's legislative powers. This Government, however, has consistently preferred an approach of co-operation with the States rather than enacting unilateral legislation. We have recognised the importance of both Commonwealth and State interests and expertise in this area. Accordingly, the Commonwealth negotiated the formal agreement with the States for a Commonwealth and State co-operative scheme. 
It is the Government's firm view that joint Commonwealth and State involvement is the most effective way of promoting commercial certainty, bringing about a reduction in business costs, encouraging greater efficiency of the capital markets, and maintaining investor confidence in the securities markets through suitable provisions for investor protection. The National Companies and Securities Commission Bill is an historic piece of legislation. It is tangible evidence of the success of the Government's policy of co-operative federalism. 
This co-operative scheme is a model for joint Commonwealth and State action in other areas where there is a requirement for uniformity of laws and administration in the national interest. I must commend the State Ministers and their governments, along with the Commonwealth and State officers who have worked diligently on the scheme. Their co-operation and genuine spirit of teamwork has lead to the successful development of the scheme. There have been difficulties from time to time. That must be expected in negotiations which have led to major changes in corporate regulation in Australia. However, all States have recognised the need for uniform national legislation. The differences have been overcome. 
As I have said, the National Companies and Securities Commission Bill is the first of the series of Bills required to give effect to the Commonwealth's legislative obligations under the agreement. Once this Bill is enacted, members of the Commission can be appointed, staff employed and the necessary administrative matters carried out so that the Commission will be ready to administer the substantive companies and securities industry legislation when enacted. 
Bills regulating company take-overs, the securities industry and companies, will be introduced into this House as soon as they have been cleared by the Ministerial Council for Companies and Securities. 
I now turn to some of the specific provisions of the Bill. The Bill establishes the National Commission and sets out its powers and functions, staffing, financing and other operational aspects such as meetings and hearings. The Commission's substantive powers and functions will be derived from Commonwealth and State companies and securities industry legislation. 
State administrations will continue to operate with their powers and functions being delegated from the National Commission. The State administrations will be subject to direction by the Commission. The Commission will have between 3 and 5 members, at least 3 of which, including the  chairman,  will be full time. Appointments, which will be made by the Governor-General on the nomination of the Ministerial Council, are for up to 5 years. There is provision for re-appointment. However, fulltime members may not continue beyond the age of 65. Remuneration and allowances of members will be determined by the Ministerial Council. The Council will be able to consult tribunals with experience in fixing rates. I should mention here that the Ministerial Council has already appointed a firm of management consultants to handle the recruitment of the members of the National Commission. The management consultants are to prepare, for the Ministerial Council, a short list of applicants. I expect that the positions will be advertised widely at an early date. 
The Bill provides for the establishment of a register of financial interests to record interests of members and staff of the Commission. The Bill also provides for the notification of interests held by other persons performing functions under the Act. The Commission will appoint its own staff on terms and conditions which are determined by the Commission and approved by the Commonwealth Public Service Board. Ministers propose that the Commission will be a small, highpowered body with probably a staff of fewer than 100. There is also provision for engagement of consultants and interchange of staff between the Commission and the States and other Commonwealth bodies. The finance provisions of the Bill take account of the fact that the Commission is subject to joint Commonwealth-State control and will receive moneys from the Commonwealth and the States. The Commonwealth will contribute 50 per cent of the costs and expenses of the Commission and the States will provide the other 50 per cent on a pro-rata basis. The Bill allows the Commission to hold hearings in public or private in order to perform any of its functions or powers. Members of the Commission are empowered to summon witnesses to give evidence, and to administer oaths or affirmations. The delegation provisions allow for hearings to be conducted by State and Territory administrations. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, the Government sees the establishment of this National Commission as the single, most vital step towards achieving uniformity both in companies and securities industry laws and in their administration. The Commission, and the scheme in general, will lead to the development of a more effective regulatory system and will facilitate a more efficient securities market in Australia. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have your indulgence to suggest that the House has a general debate covering this Bill, the Telecommunications (Interception) Bill 1979 (No. 2), the Telecommunications Amendment Bill 1979, and the Customs Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1979, as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. In making this suggestion, I give an assurance on behalf of the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  that the Government will allow sufficient time for a full and adequate debate on these very important measures. 
in reply- On behalf of the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair),  I give an assurance that adequate time will be made available, as in the past, for the consideration of these Bills. With regard to the possibility of establishing estimates committees, the Government has not yet made a decision in relation to this matter. The Government will be giving consideration to this matter in the very near future. In the event of the Government's deciding that it would be wise to establish these committees, of course discussions will be held with the Opposition. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. The Commonwealth Government implemented this principle in section 2a of the Trade Practices Act 1974 which came into operation on 1 July 1977. The section provides that the Act (other than Part X- dealing with overseas cargo shipping) binds the Crown in right of the Commonwealth in so far as the Crown carries on a business, either directly or by an authority of the Commonwealth. The section also provides that Part IV of the Act (the restrictive trade practices provisions) does not apply in relation to the business carried on by the Commonwealth in developing and disposing of interests in land in the Australian Capital Territory. Part V (the consumer protection provisions) of the Act applies to all business activity of the Commonwealth and its instrumentalities, although the section provides that nothing in the Act renders the Crown in right of the Commonwealth liable to be prosecuted for an offence. 
2) Apart from the business of developing and disposing of interests in land in the Australian Capital Territory, paragraph 172 (2) (c) of the Act allows for regulations to provide for the exemption of certain conduct engaged in the course of a business carried on by the Commonwealth or by a prescribed authority of the Commonwealth. 
No regulations under this provision have been made. Subsection 5 1 ( 1 ) of the Act also exempts acts or things that are, or are of a kind specifically authorised or approved under Commonwealth or Territory laws. Therefore, to the extent that other Commonwealth and Territory laws specifically authorise business activities which might otherwise be in breach of Part (IV) of the Act, those activities are not covered by Part (IV). 
The Commonwealth and all of its instrumentalities are subject to the Trade Practices Act except to the extent that their business activities are excluded by operation of the provisions of the Act as outlined in (2). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
One such complaint has been drawn to my attention: 
the complaint was addressed to the Trade Practices Commission; 
b) the complaint was dated 29 May 1 979; 
the complaint is being examined by the Trade Practices Commission. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the reports of the Industries Assistance Commission on gearboxes, gears and shaft coupling temporary assistance, and tanned and finished leather, dressed furshort term assistance. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
While it is Government policy that the Trade Practices Act should make no distinction between professions and other persons engaged in trade or commerce, the Act does not apply to many professional bodies because of limitations on the Commonwealth's legislative power under the Constitution. The restrictive trade practices provisions apply only to the activities  of  corporations and to the activities of persons engaged in inter-State, international or territorial trade or commerce or transactions involving the Commonwealth, its instrumentalities or authorities. 
Accordingly it may be doubtful whether the Act would apply to conduct of the kind referred to by the honourable member. I have, however, asked that the ruling of the Federal Trade Commission be forwarded to the Commission for its information and any action it considers appropriate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) The package of measures which the Government has under consideration for the Petroleum Retail Industry was announced on 30 October 1 978. Since that time the Government has received views and comments from interested parties from both within and outside the industry and is now carefully examining those views to ensure consideration of all aspects. 
It is interesting to note that whilst the majority of petroleum retailers (referred to by  Mr Jacobi)  have expressed support for the package, there are many who have provided me with reasons why the Government ought not to proceed with it. 
) A Report into developments in the petroleum marketing industry in the U.S.A., prepared for the Australian government by a study group led by the Honourable  Sir Robert  Cotton, Australian Consul-General New York was tabled in Parliament on 3 May 1979. 
Yes. 
The Government is anxious to reach a conclusion on the proposals but will not do so until all aspects have been considered. 
It is a fact that the honourable member for Lalor and the honourable member for Melbourne Ports on previous occasions directed questions to me concerning the Commonwealth companies Act'. Apart from the honourable member for Melbourne Ports and the honourable member for Lalor, honourable members on both sides of this House would know that there is no Commonwealth companies Act at this stage. However there is an Australian Capital Territory Company Ordinance. As the questions are a matter of law, for the information of honourable members I table a copy of the Ordinance. 
I ask leave of the House to move a motion to extend further the time allowed for Grievance Debate. 
The Government is prepared to make additional time available for private members to speak in the Grievance Debate but if the Opposition wishes to curtail this debate so be it. 
Motion (by  Mr Fife)-  by leave- agreed to: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the consideration of Order of the Day No. 1 Government Business, Grievance Debate, being continued until 2.23 p.m. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to give effect to the Government's decision to extend the operation of the Bounty (PolyesterCotton Yarn) Act 1978 until 31 August 1981. The Bounty (Polyester-Cotton Yarn) Act 1978 provides assistance to the manufacture in Australia of polyester-cotton yarn by means of a bounty scheme, providing for the payment to eligible manufacturers of a bounty of $1.15 per kilogram on yarn consisting of a mixture of polyester and cotton fibres, in which the polyester fibres are not less than 50 per cent by weight, being single-fold combed yarn not coarser than 20 tex with at least one ply of 10 tex or coarser. The extension of the operation of this scheme is being made as an interim measure pending consideration by the Government of the final report by the Industries Assistance Commission on the longer term assistance needs for the textiles, clothing and footwear industries. That report is expected to be received by the Government in March 1980. 
In deciding to extend the operation of this scheme the Government was conscious of the need to give at least 12 months advance notice of the policy of assistance that is to apply to these industries so as to assist future planning of operations by importers, retailers and manufacturers. During the extended period of the scheme the amount available for payment of bounty will continue to remain at $600,000. 1 commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Keith  Johnson) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to repeal the Liquefied Gas (Road Vehicle Use) Tax Act 1974, the Liquefied Gas (Road Vehicle Use) Tax Amendment Act 1977 and the Liquefied Gas (Road Vehicle Use) Tax Collection Act 1974 to give effect to the Government's decision to remove the tax on this fuel for automotive use after 27 June 1979. The Government's decision to remove this tax, which was announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 27 June 1 979 is part of a series of new government initiatives on energy conservation designed to encourage a shift in energy use away from oil to other alternative sources of energy. 
I am sure that honourable members present here today share the world-wide concern about the energy situation, oil shortages and escalating oil prices. The impact of world oil shortages has already been felt in this country. Because liquefied petroleum gas has considerable potential for saving motor spirit, it is expected that removal of the tax on this fuel will ultimately lead to 10 to 15 per cent of Australia's motor vehicles being powered by this alternative source of energy. The removal of this tax will result in a reduction in revenue by approximately $700,000, however the Government considers this measure to be fully justified in order to alleviate oil shortages. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Keith  Johnson) adjourned. 
For the information of honourable members I present the reports of the Industries Assistance Commission on Ceramic Floor and Wall Tiles, and spanners and wrenches. 
by leave- On 2 June 1978 the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, in response to a reference to it from the Senate on 2 1 April 1 977, to review the right of priority of the Crown over other creditors in matters of bankruptcy, corporate liquidations or other cases of impecunious persons or corporations, tabled in the Senate its report, 'Priority of Crown Debts'. As honourable members will recall, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  on 25 May 1978, announced in this House procedures under which the responsible Minister would make a statement in the Parliament outlining the action the Government proposes to take in relation to any report by a parliamentary committee. As Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs 'Priority of Crown Debts' falls within my portfolio and I now intend to outline the action the Government proposes to take in relation to the report. 
In its report the Senate Committee recommended the complete abrogation of all Crown priorities in insolvency administrations. The Government has examined the report and is fully in agreement with the main thrust of the Committee's argument. The Government supports uniformity of insolvency administration, which was of particular concern to the Senate Committee. It also acknowledges the desirability of placing the Crown on an even footing with the private sector so far as possible. Accordingly, the Government has decided to abolish all remaining Crown priorities in the Commonwealth sphere and to seek the abolition of all remaining Crown priorities in the State sphere except in relation to tax instalment deductions and withholding tax on dividends and interest remitted overseas. Special considerations apply in relation to these two categories of debt and separate them from other Crown debts. However, the law will be amended to make it clear that the giving of credit to employees in respect of misapplied tax instalment deductions is mandatory in all situations. 
It is proposed to take action as soon as possible to implement those aspects of this decision that relate to bankruptcy and company law. Consequential changes to the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 and other associated tax legislation will be introduced by the Treasurer in due course. This action will also give effect to a long standing commitment by the Commonwealth to the States that the Commonwealth would abandon its common law priorities in company insolvencies.  (Quorum formed).  Although the Opposition has again interrupted the debate to call attention to the state of the House, it has made no contribution towards forming the quorum. I thank members of the Government parties for forming the quorum. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! That is not a point of order. 

I am disappointed to learn from the Deputy Opposition Whip that the Opposition has no interest in the affairs of Parliament. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Duty payable on imported metal roofing tiles does not depend upon brand but upon the composition of the tile. Duty payable on some types of tiles rose by 14 per cent from 17 August 1978. 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Minister for Trade and Resources to his Question No. 4136 (House of Representatives  Hansard,  21 August 1979, page 394). 
(i) and (ii) Those tiles imported from New Zealand on which the mineral substance is bonded to the metal by a preparation based on bitumen are unaffected; any others are subject to the duty increase. 
Pursuant to section 171 of the Trade Practices Act 1 974 I present the fifth annual report of the Trade Practices Commission for the year ended 30 June 1 979. 
by leave- The Government earlier this year decided that there should be a review of the organisation and lines of control of the Federal Narcotics Bureau and its relations with other arms of government. I had proposed to ask the head of my Department to seek the assistance of the Public Service Board in this review, but I was aware that the Federal Narcotics Bureau falls also within the terms of reference of the Australian Royal Commission of Inquiry into Drugs and that the Royal Commissioner,  Mr Justice  Williams, therefore, could be making recommendations in relation to it. The Royal Commission report is not expected until towards the end of the year. Rather than wait until then, I raised with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  the question whether we might seek  Mr Justice  Williams' views on matters relating to the organisation and control of the Narcotics Bureau ahead of his final report. The Government raised the matter formally with  His Excellency  the Governor-General and with the Royal Commissioner with the result that  Mr Justice  Williams agreed that he would provide an interim report dealing with these matters. 
The interim report was received by  His Excellency  yesterday. Because it is an interim report and the subject will be fully covered in the final Royal Commission report, and because the Royal Commissioner has included in the interim report a number of matters of confidential evidence and observations which ordinarily would not be made public,  Mr Justice  Williams has preferred that this interim report be treated as confidential. The Government proposes to abide by this indication of the Royal Commissioner's wishes. I simply inform the House therefore that the interim report has been received. It will be made available to those immediately concerned with the review of the Bureau and the recommendations of the Royal Commission will be taken fully into account by the Government in any decisions that are made. The Royal Commission's final report, including whatever recommendations there may be relating to the Narcotics Bureau, will be tabled in the Parliament when received and will be open to debate in this House. The Government appreciates very much the assistance and co-operation that it has had from  Mr Justice  Williams in this matter. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on fixed resistors. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
, (3) and (4) See ( 1 ) above. 

 - Mr Speaker, I would like to indicate to the House that the Government is prepared to facilitate a debate tomorrow on the motion that has been moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden). 
We are not prepared to allow the debate to go on today when honourable members have not had an opportunity to peruse and consider the contents of the report that has now become known as the Finnane report. To proceed with the debate on the motion that has been moved today by the Leader of the Opposition without honourable members having had an opportunity to peruse and consider the report that has only quite recently been tabled in the New South Wales Parliament would do this House and this Parliament no good. Indeed, it would be a great reflection on this Parliament and it would - 
If for no other reason but in the interest of justice, it is the correct thing to do to wait until the report that is referred to as the Finnane report is available for the perusal and consideration of all members of this House. 
Motion ( by  Mr Fife)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put- 
That the question be now put. 
Pursuant to section 10 of the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Act 1976, I present the recommendations of the States Grants Commissions for New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. Members have already received the determinations of allocations for their own States. The payments to the States for on-forwarding to local government cannot be made, however, until such time as the Act is amended to provide for the increase in the local government share of personal income tax from 1.52 per cent to 1.75 per cent. The amending Bill was introduced into the House on 22 August by the Treasurer. 
I move: 
That Standing Order 399 be suspended for the remainder of this day except when a motion is moved pursuant to the Standing Order by a Minister. 
I merely wish to comment that this motion is necessary for the orderly conduct of the business of the House. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
All vehicles operated by the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs are hired from the Department of Administrative Services. 1 therefore refer the honourable member to the answer to Question No. 4299  (Hansard,  1 1 September 1 979, page 972 ) provided by the Minister for Administrative Services. 
I move: 
Customs Tariffproposals No. 29 ( 1979). 
The Customs Tariff Proposals I have just tabled relate to proposed alterations to the Customs Tariff Act 1966. The Proposals implement the Government's decision on recommendations made by the Industries Assistance Commission in its report on paper products. 
The Commission recommended that most of the products under reference should be dutiable at 25 per cent of the remaining goods and that certain fibre building board products should be dutiable at 15 per cent; wall papers and coverings should attract 6 per cent; most goods currently entered duty free should remain duty free; and cigarette papers, cigarette tissue, filter paper and certain transfer media should be reduced to free. These recommendations generally mean a reduction in duty. The Government has accepted the Commision 's recommendations, except in respect of cigarette papers which will continue to be subject to the revenue component of the present duty, namely, $0.0145 per 60 tubes, papers or equivalent thereof. 
The Government noted the Commission's assessment that, in view of the limited competition from imports of most of the goods, implementation of the recommended rates is not expected to have an impact on Australian industry. The Commission had also considered that the goods under reference had been assisted by comparatively high levels of assistance and in its view, continuation of such assistance could not be justified. 
The new rates operate from tomorrow. A comprehensive summary setting out the nature of the duty changes is being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Proposals to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
For the information of honourable members I table the Industries Assistance Commission report on paper products dated 16 May 1979. 
Pursuant to section 35 (2 ) of the Prices Justification Act 1973 I present the annual report of the Prices Justification Tribunal 1978-79. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The safety of self-service petrol stations is a matter which comes within the responsibilities of State and Territory Governments. 
In my answer to Question No. 3333 I informed the honourable member that I had raised the matter with State and Territory Ministers for Consumer Affairs. 
The matter will again be discussed at the next meeting of the Standing Committee of Ministers for Consumer Affairs which is expected to be held in November this year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (l)Yes. 
Officers of my Department have made inquiries into the allegations. (3)I have received advice that there is no evidence to support these allegations. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
The Government announced on 31 May 1977 that it had decided to reject the recommendation contained in the 4th report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum that the Government should establish an agency to control all major aspects of the marketing of petroleum products. 
In this respect it is basic to the philosophy of the Government that as far as possible the economy operate according to market forces, and the type of detailed control envisaged by the report was totally unacceptable. 
Such controls would lead to increased costs for both taxpayers and consumers, and in the long-term would be seen by even those retailers involved in the industry as an unacceptable level of interference in their own commercial activities. 
The Government's view on the recommendation of the Royal Commission has not changed. However, whilst the Government rejected the recommendation it has initiated certain action in the petroleum retail marketing industry which reflects its concern regarding some of the issues highlighted by the Royal Commission. 
The Government established an oil industry conference to enable all interested parties in the industry to attempt to settle the problems associated with petroleum marketing. After the conference I announced a package of possible measures on 30 October 1978, which the Government currently has under consideration, concerning the retail marketing of petroleum. 
Following my announcement of the package I invited and received submissions from State Governments, dealer groups, oil companies and other interested parties. I have also had extensive discussions with interested parties over the period and have received a report on developments in the United States relevant to the Australian proposals. The report, prepared by a study group led by  Sir Robert  Cotton, 
K.C.M.G., Australian Consul-General, New York, was tabled in Parliament on 3 May 1 979. 
I will be reporting to the Government in the near future on the outcome of my examination of the petroleum marketing industry. In making its decision, the Government will take account of the views and comments it has received as well as significant changes in the market situation where widespread discounting with allegations of price discrimination has been replaced by supply difficulties and virtual cessation of discounting at the retail level. 
In the 1978-79 Budget the Government decided that all Australian produced crude oil should be priced to the refineries at import parity prices. The decision to move to import parity pricing was taken with a number of energy policy objectives in mind. These were the encouragement of oil exploration and development, the encouragement of greater economies in energy usage and the use of other fuels in preference to oil and the fostering of a more intensive search for alternatives to oil. Each of these objectives requires that realistic prices be paid for petroleum products. 
Wholesale prices charged by companies for petroleum products are subject to examination by the Prices Justification Tribunal. In this regard the Tribunal has held a number of public inquiries and in a number of its reports has commented on landed costs and transfer prices of crude oil. The P.J.T. will continue to monitor the prices of petroleum products. 
and (4) See ( 1 ) and (2) above. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) Inherent in the theme of my opening address was the proposition that uniformity, where practicable, would effect reductions both in costs of production and in prices to consumers. While I was able to give an example of extra costs of some $22,300 p.a. faced by one firm because of the lack of uniformity in State packaging and labelling requirements in that particular case, I also indicated that it was hard to document the costs which the lack of uniformity added to the production of goods and the prices paid for them by consumers. 
It is quite clear, however, that the separate printing, artwork, inventories and storage facilities, which often have to be undertaken or maintained by manufacturers because of differing State packaging and labelling requirements, would add considerable costs to the production of goods which are subject to those requirements. 
For this reason the Government is determined to take all steps to achieve uniformity where possible in packaging and labelling laws throughout Australia within the specialised food, agricultural and health areas and on a broader level through the meetings of the Commonwealth, State and Territory Ministers for Consumer Affairs. 
State and Territory Governments have agreed that discussions be held with the Commonwealth so that there can be a co-ordinated effort to improve uniformity throughout the nation. Each State and Territory Minister responsible for Consumer Affairs has been nominated by bis State or Territory Government to co-ordinate action on the development of State and Territory views on, and proposals for, uniformity in packaging and labelling. Initial consideration of this matter has commenced and at the last two meetings of the Standing Committee of Ministers for Consumer Affairs discussion took place as to the methods which could be adopted to assist the task of reducing non-uniformity in packaging and labelling requirements. Possible methods of improving uniformity and possible ways of increasing the availability of information to business and to consuers on Australia's packaging and labelling requirements are being considered. The States and Territories have recently made available to the Commonwealth copies of relevant legislation for study to identify areas of non-uniformity and, in consultation, to make suggestions for possible changes. 
In addition Commonwealth, State and Territory officials are in the process of dealing with specific areas of nonuniformity and two important subjects, the date marking of foodstuffs and article price numbering, are listed for discussion at the next meeting of the Standing Committee of Ministers for Consumer Affairs to be held in Darwin in November this year. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Commission concluded that there were significant elements of truth in this and other criticisms which have been made in the past. 
(a) The Commission compared examples of retail margins in Australia with those in certain other countries but did not quantify the basis for this cirticism 
Because of the almost complete integration of the oil industry in Australia at the refining and wholesaling levels, it has not been possible for the Prices Justification Tribunal to make a precise measurement of wholesale margins for petroleum products. 
The Tribunal's involvement with retail pricing of petroleum products has been fairly limited. However, details made available to the PJT by the New South Wales Prices Commission show that the retail margin for motor spirit in New South Wales at 1 April 1976 was 19 per cent and at 1 September 1979, 16 percent. 
Details of retail margins applying in other States are not available. 
3 ) The PJT has conducted twelve public inquiries into the prices of petroleum products since early 1974. 
These inquiries have provided companies and interested organisations and persons with the opportunity to present views and information about all aspects of petroleum product pricing. Justified prices determined by the Tribunal for petroleum products have therefore been arrived at on the basis of the best available information on the industry. The oil companies are currently required to notify their proposed price increases to the PJT. 
See (2). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Figures disclosed in the Royal Commission's Report indicate that the cost of retailing motor spirit to the motorist was, in 1973, up to 4 times higher in parts of Australia than in New Zealand. 
and (4) See my answers to Question No. 1 870. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
These statistics are not collected by my Department or by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
, (3) and (4) See my answer to Question No. 1 870. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) See my answer to Question No. 1870. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. 
and (4) See my answer to Question No. 1 870. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
These statistics are not collected by my Department or by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
) In 1 975 the number of company or dealer owned retail outlets supplied by companies in both metropolitan and country areas was as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Prices Justification Tribunal in its report of 3 May 1974 on Shell Australia Limited concluded that the approach of the South Australian Commissioner for Prices and Consumer Affairs provided a useful starting point for the task of assessing the justification of prices in that inquiry. The Tribunal stated in its report that it would further develop its approach to pricing of petroleum products in subsequent inquiries having regard to circumstances in the world and local petroleum markets. ( 3 ), ( 4) and ( 5 ) The Tribunal 's approach to pricing of petroleum products has, in fact, been examined and developed in each of the public inquiries conducted by it into petroleum products. 
In its report of 1 1 April 1979 on Shell Australia Limited, the Tribunal reviewed the methods it used to determine justified prices for petroleum products and examined whether they were appropriate in current circumstances. In this regard it considered submissions from interested parties suggesting alternative approaches to its present basis of pricing petroleum products. The Tribunal, however, decided on that occasion not to alter its existing approach, but indicated its intention to continue to re-examine its methods in future inquiries. 
In its latest report dated 17 August 1979 the Tribunal again considered alternative ways of adjusting relative prices, but made no changes to its existing method. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second dme. 
The Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1979 now before the House proposes amendments to Schedule 2 to the Customs Tariff Act 1966. 
The Bill follows a complete review of the operation and application of the 2 per cent revenue duty imposed on 1 July 1979 as part of the Government's overall budgetary policy. As a result of this review the Government has decided to exempt two specific areas of imports from the 2 per cent duty. While remaining committed to the retention of the levy, the Government had decided to exempt two specific areas from its application. 
The areas involved are: Ships and other vessels temporarily imported into Australia on the authority of the Minister for Transport under the Customs (Prohibited Imports) Regulations; and goods for use in connection with the exploration for petroleum or the development of petroleum wells to the point where the well-head assembly is attached. 
Exemption from the 2 per cent duty on these goods has been made because of the temporary nature of imports of ships and similar vessels and the Government's desire not to impede oil exploration in Australia. 
Whilst the Government appreciates the effect of the revenue duty on other goods and areas of industry it could not see its way clear to extending exemptions beyond the two areas referred to. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Clyde  Cameron) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Diesel Fuel Taxation (Administration) Act 1957, which contains the administrative machinery for the collection of a tax imposed on diesel fuel when used in propelling a road vehicle on a public road, currently stipulates that if a person who has purchased diesel fuel free of tax for use otherwise than in propelling a road vehicle on a public road subsequently uses that fuel for propelting a road vehicle on a public road he shall, within 2 1 days after such use, notify a collector of customs in writing that the fuel has been so used. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Diesel Fuel Taxation (Administration) Act 1957 to enable that notification period to be extended beyond 2 1 days so as to accommodate persons who have experienced difficulty in complying with this requirement because of present day accounting practices. 
Clause 4 of the Bill continues the Government's policy of expanding, wherever possible, the jurisdiction of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal in relation to administrative decisions which affect the rights or entitlements of persons under Commonwealth legislation. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Cohen)  adjourned. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on passenger motor vehicles import restrictions. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to amend the Excise Tariff Act 1921 to remove from 1 January 1980 the excise duty payable on canned fruit. The excise duty currently payable on canned fruit is used to provide a fund to assist in the promotion of the exportation of canned fruit from Australia. This Bill forms part of a package of measures being introduced by the Government to implement new marketing arrangements for canned fruit and to reconstitute the Australian Canned Fruits Board under the name of the Australian Canned Fruits Corporation. 
Legislation brought before the House by my colleague the Minister for Veterans' Affairs and the Minister Assisting the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Adermann)  will implement the new marketing arrangements and establish the Australian Canned Fruits Corporation. That legislation includes a Bill to impose a levy on canned deciduous fruits produced in a factory in Australia during a season, which will be used to fund the operations of the proposed Australian Canned Fruits Corporation. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to amend the Excise Act 1901 to remove from that Act all provisions which relate to canned fruit. The proposal is consequential upon the removal of the excise duty payable on canned fruit and forms part of a package of measures being introduced by the Government to implement new marketing arrangements for canned fruit and to reconstitute the Australian Canned Fruits Board under the name of the Australian Canned Fruits Corporation. Legislation brought before the House by my colleague the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs and Minister Assisting the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Adermann)  will implement the new marketing arrangements and establish the Australian Canned Fruits Corporation. Clause 2 of the Bill provides for the commencement date to be fixed by proclamation so as to enable transitional arrangements to be made following the removal of the excise duty on canned fruit from 1 January 1980. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
I move: 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on sporting and recreational equipment. 
-I will take note of the detail of the honourable member's question and give him a considered reply later. 
This has been a most interesting debate. One thing that is quite evident is that both sides of the House support a national initiative in this field. Both sides of the House have expressed general support for Commonwealth involvement in the companies and securities area. But, of course, nothing has changed so far as philosophy is concerned. During the course of this debate the Opposition has made it quite clear that in government it would pursue the same line that it pursued when it was in government before, both in relation to companies and securities legislation and also in relation to any other matter that concerns the States. In the former Administration, Minister after Minister made it clear to State Ministers that given time the States, with a Federal Labor government, would become merely agents of the Commonwealth. If honourable members believe that I am exaggerating let me say to them that when I was a State Minister, Ministers said that to me. Some of those honourable members are still in this Parliament. 
The former Labor Government opted for a unilateral action by the Commonwealth insofar as it proposed to legislate in this field without consultation with the States, and it proposed to rely solely on the Commonwealth legislative powers. Today the Opposition continues to pursue this line. On the other hand, this Government has consistently preferred an approach of cooperation with the States rather than enacting unilateral legislation. The Government has recognised the importance of both Commonwealth and State interests and expertise in this area. Accordingly, the Commonwealth negotiated the formal agreement which has been referred to several times during this debate. We negotiated the formal agreement with the States for a Commonwealth and State co-operative- I emphasise the word 'co-operative'- scheme. It is the Government's firm view that joint Commonwealth and State involvement is the most effective way of promoting commercial certainty, of bringing about a reduction in business costs, of encouraging greater efficiency of the capital markets, and in maintaining investor confidence in the security markets through suitable provisions for investor protection. 
When the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  entered the debate he made reference to a statement made by my colleague, the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  when the Treasurer indicated that there was wide support for this cooperative scheme. Indeed, the Leader of the Opposition set about to ridicule the comments of the Treasurer. Let me say that not only have industry spokesmen supported the scheme, but indeed the six State governments have supported this scheme and these six State governments have asked the Commonwealth to proceed in this way. At the time that the States were urging the Commonwealth to proceed in this field there were three Labor State governments, three Labor Attorneys-General and three other Liberal Party or National Country Party Attorneys-General meeting with me. The six State representatives were as one in urging that this scheme be proceeded with. 
There seems to be some misunderstanding on the part of some members of the Opposition. Indeed, it was clear that the Leader of the Opposition does not have a full understanding of how the legislation can be amended. It is true that the initial legislation must be agreed to by all the participating governments and Parliaments before the scheme can be put into operation. But once the legislation has been enacted the Commonwealth companies legislation and the Commonwealth securities industry legislation will be the only legislation that will need to be amended in order to change the law. In accordance with the agreement that has been entered into between the Commonwealth and the States it will be necessary for the Ministerial Council to reach agreement- not unanimously as suggested by at least one honourable member of the Opposition- by a majority vote. If the Ministerial Council, by majority vote, approves of an amendment the Commonwealth Government can proceed to present that amendment to this Parliament for the consideration of honourable members of the House of Representatives and honourable senators in the Senate. I repeat that in that circumstance it will be necessary only to amend the Commonwealth Act. 
I now return to the amendments that have been moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  I want to deal with each of these amendments because of the importance of the legislation, and also because I understand that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition will be moving detailed amendments in Committee. Some of what I will have to say now will be relevant to those amendments to be moved later in the Committee stages. I want to make it clear that the Government has in no way abdicated its responsibility. This has been suggested by the Opposition. Indeed, all the speakers for the Opposition made this assertion. I repeat that the Government has not abdicion. I ated its responsibility. It has sought to promote the scheme which it considers will be the most efficient means by which the uniform laws for the companies and securities industry can be implemented. It will ensure that administration is immediately effective, particularly given that the National Companies and Securities Commission will be able to utilise the available expertise in this very complex area. The Government has recognised the fundamental need for reform in this area. It has been suggested that this is not so. I repeat that the Government has recognised the fundamental need for reform in this are:.. 
In the second reading speech of the Bill I said that the Government believes that it has certain national responsibilities in this field which can only be discharged by a significant level of Commonwealth involvement. This is what we have said, this is what we propose, and this is in accordance with the action that we have taken. The States have also recognised the need for a national scheme to provide uniformity in both the companies and securities laws and its administration. The agreement reached in effect will implement the scheme which will attack the problems that have been identified by the Rae Committee. 
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition further in his proposed amendment referred to the proposed legislative scheme placing uniformity before reform. Let me say at once that uniformity is indeed an important component of the co-operative scheme. We do not deny this. The Rae report in fact highlighted the lack of uniformity in the law and its administration in this field. The legislation, which will apply nationally, will be substantially in conformity with the provisions of the companies Acts, the securities industries Acts and marketable securities Acts in force in the States which are parties to the Interstate Corporate Affairs Agreement. However, the Ministerial Council for Companies and Securities has considered and is considering urgent reform which will be included in the substantive companies and securities legislation which will be introduced into this House at a later date. 
The Government does not agree with the assertion by the Opposition that there is a lack of accountability. Under the provisions of clause 52 of the Bill the NCSC is required to prepare an annual report and financial statements by 31 October each year. The accounts are required to be audited by the Commonwealth AuditorGeneral, who will report to the Ministerial Council. The Commonwealth Minister is required in turn to lay the NCSC report and financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General before both Houses of the Commonwealth Parliament within 15 sitting days of his receiving them. In addition, under the provisions of clause 8 of the Bill the Commission must provide to the Ministerial Council for Companies and Securities such reports relating to performance of its functions or exercise of its powers as the Ministerial Council requires. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition draws attention in his proposed amendment to the financial interest provisions. The Government believes that the scope of the laws relating to financial interest provides the public with adequate protection. I refer the honourable member, and indeed all honourable members, to clause 19 of the Bill, which deals with the Register of Financial Interests and to clause 49 of the Bill, which deals with notification of interest. This protection is reinforced by clause 48 of the Bill, which deals with the restrictions on dealings in securities. 
The Opposition seeks to make alterations in relation to the hearings of the Commission. I wish to make it clear that this Government would not wish to pre-empt the circumstances in which hearings should be heard in public or private. Such decisions should be made by the Commission having regard only to the particular circumstances of the matter and the subject of the inquiry. The Ministerial Council for Companies and Securities has agreed that the Companies and Securities Law Review Committee, which will assist the Ministerial Council in reviewing the legislation, should not be a statutory body. Creation of another statutory body in addition to the NCSC would in our view create unnecessary administrative difficulties, particularly given that it is to be only an advisory body. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition also referred to the establishment of an accounting standards review committee. On previous occasions I have drawn attention to the fact that the Ministerial Council is giving consideration to the establishment of an accounting standards review committee. This matter is still under consideration by the Council. It will be given further consideration and a decision will be taken at a later date. Dealing with the last points that were covered by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, it would be most unusual to prescribe the detail of matters on which the Commission must report annually. The Government is of the very firm opinion that the accountability provisions contained in the Bill are indeed adequate. 
Question put- 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Lionel Bowen's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
The question raised by the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  in relation to proposed amendments Nos. 14 and 15 dealt with a proposed accounting standards review committee. The honourable member seeks to have this committee established by way of this legislation. The Ministerial Council has given consideration to this question. The Government also has given it some initial consideration but no decisions have been taken by the Council or by the Government. I give an undertaking to the Committee that the matter will be further considered both at Ministerial Council level and by the Government, but at this stage I do not propose to accept the amendments moved by the honourable member for Hawker. I do state again my undertaking that the matter will be considered further. 
Proposed new clauses negatived. 
Clauses 45 to 47- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 48 (Restrictions on dealings in securities). 
The Government opposes this amendment moved by the Opposition. In indicating the Government's opposition to the amendment I would like to point out that we believe that two years after the date of transaction is adequate particularly given that the provision deals with the administrators of the legislation. I think that it should be agreed by honourable members on both sides of the House that the requirements on administrators are quite adequate. 
Amendment negatived. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My attention has been drawn to the news item in question. 
Yes. 
Amendments made earlier this year to the Prices Justification Act 1973 gave particular attention to the need to provide for the inquiry into and the surveillance of particular prices. 
Consistent with these requirements, the major petroleum companies are presently required to notify the Tribunal of proposed price increases in respect of a range of petroleum products which includes distillate. The Tribunal's Public Inquiry Report dated 17 August 1979 dealt with the prices of petroleum products including distillate. 
I have been informed that the PTJ's resources are adequate to meet its responsibilities in respect of the examination of petroleum product prices and I am satisfied that the present arrangements are working satisfactorily. 
I move: 
Customs TariffProposals No. 3 1 ( 1979). 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, the Customs Tariff Proposals I have just tabled relate to proposed alterations to the Customs Tariff Act 1966. The Proposals implement the Government's decision on recommendations made by the Industries Assistance Commission in its report on furniture. The effect of the decision is to allow dentists', hairdressers' and opticians' chairs, smoking requisites and aircraft seats entry at minimum rates of duty. Other vehicle seats will be dutiable at 25 per cent and the remainder of the goods under reference will attract a rate of 30 per cent. 
In accepting the Commission's recommendations, the Government noted the Commission's comments that local manufacturers have maintained a commanding market share despite increasing imports; employment has remained relatively constant; and the average returns on funds employed have remained above the average for all manufacturing industries. The Commission considered that the rates recommended will maintain the competitive position of local manufacturers of most major furniture items without imposing an undue additional cost burden on consumers or promoting serious misallocation of resources. 
The Government further accepted the Commission's advice that certain imports from New Zealand were of sufficient magnitude to warrant action to protect the Australian industry. Consequently the rate of duty applicable to these imports from New Zealand will be raised to 15 per cent. The Commission also suggested that Developing Country Preference on certain items be removed. The Proposals make provision for general rates of duty to apply to these goods outside import quota allocations. The new duty rates will operate from tomorrow. I have had a comprehensive summary setting out the nature of the duty changes prepared, which is being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Proposals to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Cohen)  adjourned. 
For the information of honourable members I present the reports of the Industries Assistance Commission on spirits, spirituous beverages, et cetera and on grapes and wine. I also present the Industries Assistance Commission report on furniture. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Statistics on bankruptcy proceedings are recorded in each Bankruptcy District. Because the State of New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory comprise one Bankruptcy District separate statistics are not available for the Australian Capital Territory. Details of bankruptcy proceedings in Australia for the years 1969-70 to 1978-79 inclusive are as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The complaint was lodged with my Department in February 1978 by Fielder Gillespie Ltd, the sole Australian manufacturer. 
The export prices of dextrose monohydrate to Australia were lower than the normal values obtaining in the countries of export and imports at dumped prices threaten to cause material injury to the Australian industry. 
Dumping duties have been determined in respect of imports of dextrose monohydrate from Japan, Malaysia, the People's Republic of China, France and the Federal Republic of Germany exported to Australia on or after 28 September 1979. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) As with all the elements of the Government's administration, the staff and financial resources made available to the Trade Practices Commission are determined against the background of the Government's total budgetary responsibilities and priorities. Within this context it is considered that proper provision has been made for the Trade Practices Commission. 
The allocation of resources within the overall provision is a matter for the Trade Practices Commission, which, in its Fifth Annual Report, has outlined procedures it has adopted to deal with its work in the light of the staff and financial resources which have been allocated to it. The Commission also mentions delays in court hearings but indicates that these delays are due to action being taken by companies once the matter is before the court or to court procedures rather than to insufficient Commission resources. 
The Commission noted that the Federal Court has recently revised its procedures which may act to reduce delays in court proceedings. 
I am indebted to the honourable member for Adelaide for his question in relation to this matter. The honourable member, indeed all honourable members, will be aware that the Government is breaking new ground in this area. Because it is breaking new ground it is desirous that the Government move slowly but, nevertheless, in a definite way. Members of the industry will be aware that the Government has been meticulous in its examination of this question. We are breaking new ground in this country and it is to the discredit of members of the Opposition that they have not been concerned about the plight of small retailers in the past. To the best of my recollection this is the first question on this matter that a member of the Opposition has directed to me. There has been opportunity, week after week, month after month, to direct a question to me or to any other member of the Government if the Opposition had been sincere in its concern for the small retailers. 
I repeat that the Opposition has shown practically no interest in this very important issue. I said a moment ago that the Government is breaking new ground in this country. Indeed, new ground has been broken so far as this subject is concerned in the United States of America with its new legislation. For this reason we arranged to have the procedures in that country examined by the Australian ConsulGeneral in New York and also by a senior officer of my Department. Their report has been tabled in this Parliament and it has been available to honourable members on both sides of the House. The Government recently announced a decision to proceed with the drafting of franchise legislation. I would expect that that draft legislation will be prepared during the forthcoming recess. It will then be exposed for public comment. It will give every interested person and group an opportunity to comment before the Government introduces the Bill into the House. 
There were two other components in the package that was announced in October last year. The second component concerned the divorcement aspect which the honourable member for Adelaide has referred to and to which the honourable member for Franklin referred earlier in his notice of motion. Divorcement, if proceeded with, would preclude oil companies from engaging in direct retailing. The Government has not taken a decision on this particular aspect because it does not believe that it needs to take a decision at this stage. It has reserved its decision making process in relation to divorcement until the draft franchise legislation is available. 
The other part of the package deals with price discrimination. The Government believed that it would be in the best interests of the community and of the industry to have the Trade Practices Commission conduct a survey before the Government proceeded to take a decision in this area. The Trade Practices Commission has agreed to undertake this survey and believes that it will be able to do so in a short space of time. I give the House an undertaking that the Government is concerned not only about the position of the small retailer in the petroleum industry but also about the position of small retailers and small business people generally because they have been the backbone of this country. They are supported by people on this side of the House and they have received practically no support from people on the other side of the House. 
by leave- Let me at once say that I fully support the decision of the Government announced by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony).  The drug menace is a real problem and there is a continuing need to upgrade and improve the effectiveness of our law enforcement effort. 
When I first became Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs in July 1977,I called for a report on drug enforcement strategy from the Department and I also had discussions with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Shortly after that, I was strongly identified with the Government decision to set up the Australian Royal Commission of Inquiry into Drugs. A central objective of establishing the Royal Commission was to seek advice on the adequacy of existing law enforcement, including arrangements for co-operation between law enforcement agencies. The Commission commenced its operations in November 1977. Later in January 1978, I announced certain initiatives which the Government had decided were immediately necessary to counter drug trafficking pending the outcome of the Royal Commission. Briefly these were to upgrade the strength and status of the Narcotics Bureau; to acquire highly sophisticated equipment to increase the communications and surveillance capacity of the Department; to upgrade air and sea surveillance in the north and west of Australia; to review the penalties for drug trafficking; to provide for forfeiture of bank and similar accounts and real estate acquired from the proceeds of drug trafficking; to change the Customs Act to provide for the scope of the Act to be broadened to include a specific offence of conspiracy and to strengthen existing provisions in relation to attempts to import, and for the use of listening devices to investigate drug offences; to change the Telephonic Communications (Interception) Act to authorise, subject to proper safeguards, lawful eavesdropping of telephone communications suspected of being related to drug trafficking; and to strengthen liaison offices already established overseas in the Golden Triangle and associated areas. I am able to report to the House that action has been taken on all these matters. 
This afternoon, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  made much of a letter dated 23 June 1978 which senior counsel assisting the Royal Commission sent to the permanent head of my Department. That letter was confidential. This raises in my mind the manner in which it came into the hands of the Leader of the Opposition. The letter was brought to my attention, as indeed was the Department's third submission of September 1978 to the Royal Commission which dealt with the various points raised in  Mr Hampson's  letter. In dealing with  Mr Hampson's  letter my Department had some difficulties. The source of the criticisms levelled against the Narcotics Bureau was never made clear, and has not yet been made clear. In his opening statement to the Royal Commission during its sittings in Brisbane in September 1 978,  Mr Besley  said: 
We do not have available to us a clear indication of the strength or source of the issues raised, which the submission attempts to answer. This has not made our task easy. 
The Department did not know whether the body of evidence' given to the Commission, no doubt in good faith, was backed by real knowledge of the illicit drug trade or was merely the hypothesising of those claiming to have intimate knowledge or expertise. The Leader of the Opposition mentioned Sydney Harbour in particular. The priorities for drug interdiction around Australia had been assessed on the information available to the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs. In its submission to the Commission which addressed the points in  Mr Hampson's  letter of 23 June 1978 the Department said: 
There is no evidence from departmental assessments or any other source to suggest that the existing priorities in these areas have been wrongly assessed. If the Commission has any such evidence the Department would be anxious to receive it. 
I am advised by my Department that it has not received any such evidence. The Leader of the Opposition inferred corruption on the part of officers of the Bureau. The Royal Commission does not suggest, in its interim report, that there is corruption in the Narcotics Bureau. It is true that one bad apple was identified by the Bureau in 1975, which then spared no effort to track him down and bring him to justice. Apart from this, an investigation confirming an alleged leakage of information is being undertaken by a combined police task force under the leadership of Assistant Commissioner Hall of the Victoria Police. The Government is awaiting the report of this task force. 
The Leader of the Opposition also made reference to the lack of co-operation with other agencies. He must surely be aware of the initiative taken by the then Government in 1969 when it established the National Standing Control Committee on Drugs of Dependence. I have chaired ministerial meetings involving representatives of all States, and the permanent head of my department has chaired meetings of officials. This Committee has had, as one of its tasks, to improve the co-ordination at operational law enforcement level and between States. It has been successful to this end. Further improvements can be made; but to suggest, as does the Leader of the Opposition, that no action has been taken is not to acknowledge the facts or the views of State governments. 
In my statement in June of this year following  Mr Bates'  resignation, I said that  Mr Bates  had contributed a great deal to narcotics enforcement in this country. I do not resile from that position. The plain fact is that  Mr Bates  brought the Narcotics Bureau from nothing in 1968 to an organisation which has achieved considerable success over the years. Successes in this field are not, I suggest to honourable members, solely measured by the quantity of drugs seized. Often there have been successful conspiracy prosecutions in respect of which there have been absolutely no seizures of drugs at all. Additionally, there have been arrests, both in Australia and overseas, following seizures which would not have occurred but for the efforts of the Narcotics Bureau. Despite what was said in this House this afternoon by the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Bates  is not a headline hunter. On the contrary, he has sought, on numerous occasions which he has reported to me, not to speak to the media when they have pressed him for comments. 
The Leader of the Opposition claims the Bureau acts in secrecy. Of course it does. It is in a business which requires secrecy. Information is passed on a need-to-know basis. But it is accountable.  His  comments on rewards to informers were made without foundation. Rewards are paid as he suggested, but firm procedures which have been established in concert with the Auditor-General exist to ensure that funds are not misused in any way. The Leader of the Opposition suggested that, following the report of the Law Reform Commission which recommended the establishment of a mechanism for checking complaints against officers of the Narcotics Bureau, nothing was done. This assertion is incorrect. The facts are that there is now in place in the Department an internal Affairs Unit which is headed by a former commissioner of the Australian Capital Territory Police. It was established in June of this year. Its task is to consider allegations made against any officers of the Department, not just the Narcotics Bureau, which could lead to criminal charges. 
The Leader of the Opposition also alleged that the Narcotics Bureau has intercepted telephone calls without authority. He refers specifically to two instances. The first he takes from an article in the  Bulletin  by  Mr Delaney,  a former Narcotics Bureau officer. Following publication of that article the Department informed me that there was absolutely no knowledge in the Department of  Mr Delaney  's claims. This type of action has not been countenanced and  Mr Delaney,  in his book, makes that absolutely clear. The second claim is based on evidence by a  Mr Shobbrook  to a confidential hearing of a wages claim in 1977. 1 have been informed that there were only four copies of the transcript of those proceedings. They were confidential. The court kept a copy, the staff association concerned has a copy, the Public Service Board has a copy and my Department had a copy which it passed to the Commonwealth Royal Commission in January of last year. The eavesdropping referred to by  Mr Shobbrook  related to the use of listening devices which were properly authorised under the relevant New South Wales Act. 
There has been some reference to our standing at the international level. The facts speak for themselves. The Narcotics Bureau has five officers stationed overseas. Regular meetings of heads of narcotics law enforcement agencies in South East Asia and the Pacific region are held. Narcotics Bureau officers have visited several countries in the region to assist with the training of drug enforcement personnel and many other officers have been sent to train with the Narcotics Bureau in Australia. The Bureau has received and acceded to many requests for its officers to undertake undercover operations in several overseas countries. Grants in aid are provided to some countries. There is a regular fruitful exchange of information at the international level. 
Finally, I must say that officers of the Narcotics Bureau and my Department have been subjected to an almost unprecedented constant attack through the media. Allegations of corruption, leaked documents and personal attacks have been paramount. The Bureau has been developed from conception in 1968 to a force today that has gained international recognition in narcotics enforcement. The Government decision today, as announced by the Deputy Prime Minister, should be seen as a further development by Australia in its fight against illicit narcotics trafficking. I make no apology for defending officers of the Bureau. The Royal Commission itself has acknowledged there are many hard working and dedicated officers in the Bureau and has recognised their efforts. It is a pity that the Leader of the Opposition cannot do likewise. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to my answer to Question No. 466 1  (Hansard,  1 1 October 1979, page 2000). 
I must say at once that I do not believe that the permanent head of my Department would deliberately seek to deceive the Royal Commission or deliberately seek to misrepresent facts to me. Secondly, it is important to place on the record that both at the beginning of the Royal Commission and on several occasions during the period of the Royal Commission I did impress upon the permanent head of my Department the fact that there was to be close co-operation with the Royal Commission and that we were to provide whatever information, orally or in writing, was requested. In short, the clear instruction from me to my Department was that there was to be full co-operation with the Royal Commission. 
I repeat what I said a moment ago. I issued clear instructions that there was to be full co-operation with the Royal Commission, both in relation to the tendering of oral evidence and written evidence and in relation to any other material that might have been sought by the Royal Commissioner. I also point out to the House that some of the evidence was given in private. Obviously I am not aware and could not be aware of that evidence. Therefore, there would be no capacity to make any assessment as to whether it was considered adequate or inadequate. Obviously a lot of the information has been provided on the public record. That material is available to all honourable members, and indeed to the public. So far as the Royal Commissioner's observations are concerned in relation to the adequacy or otherwise of the evidence, and whether he believes that the officers of the Department and the Bureau have cooperated, I suggest to the House that we should await the final report because if the judge believes that there was a lack of co-operation on the part of the Department or the Bureau I would expect that he would cover that in the report. 
It is a fact that very early in the period of both the Commonwealth and New South Wales royal commissions into drugs an arrangement was established by the two commissions, and certainly approved by this Government, for information to be passed from the Commonwealth to the State Royal Commission if information was sought. It is important to remind people, particularly honourable members opposite, that at that time the Commonwealth Government indicated that it believed there ought to be one royal commission inquiring into all drug and drug related matters throughout Australia. The Commonwealth expressed that view publicly and also in correspondence with the Premiers. The Commonwealth sought a situation in which there would be one royal commission and one royal commissioner looking into all these matters right across Australia. 
We sought a situation whereby that commissioner would have a commission from the Commonwealth and also a commission from each of the State governments. Four State governments agreed to provide a commission. 
Those States were Queensland, Victoria, Western Australia and Tasmania. New South Wales decided to set up its own royal commission and, of course, South Australia had a royal commission running at that time in relation to certain aspects of the drug problem. Because the Australian Royal Commission of Inquiry into Drugs had been established, the Commonwealth believed that the method referred to by the honourable member for Chifley was the best way to provide information to the State Royal Commission. 
-The New South Wales Royal Commissioner's report has only just been tabled in the New South Wales Parliament and I have not yet had an opportunity to study it. However, my attention has been drawn to certain published statements purporting to come from that report. The Commonwealth has obtained, or is in the process of obtaining, copies of the New South Wales Royal Commissioner's report. I give the House an undertaking that that report will be very carefully studied. It will be carefully studied in every respect but, in particular, it will be studied in relation to any reference that is made to a Commonwealth area of responsibility. If the New South Wales Royal Commissioner has been critical of some aspect of Commonwealth administration or if he suggests remedial action in relation to Commonwealth administration or involvement, those suggestions or assertions will be very carefully considered. Like the Premier of New South Wales, we will not be rushing into immediate decisions in relation to the contents of the New South Wales Royal Commissioner's report. 
The decision announced last night by the  Deputy  Prime Minister indicates this Government's desire to react quickly and to make changes in accordance with the recommendations of the Commonwealth Royal Commission. It is obvious, of course- I said this last night and I repeat it now- that the Commonwealth established the Royal Commission to inquire into all aspects of drug trafficking and drug-related matters because it was concerned about the position that had developed and it was concerned to take whatever action was necessary to improve the position. I also repeat something I said yesterday in relation to the interim report. Because time was moving on and because of the growing criticism that was being levelled at the Narcotics Bureau, the Government felt that it needed to review the lines of communication between the Government and the Bureau and the Bureau's responsibility. Because the Royal Commission had been in operation for so long and because the Bureau's operations and responsibilities were within the terms of reference of the Royal Commission, the Government believed that it should not take any action without having the advice of the Royal Commissioner. It was for that reason that the Government sought an interim report. The Royal Commissioner obliged and provided that interim report. That report has been received and acted upon promptly by the Government. 
A great deal of the information contained in the honourable member's question is, of course, on the public record. One would need the papers concerned to be able to confirm the accuracy of his remarks, but I accept that the information that the honourable member has supplied is accurate for purposes of the question. Let me say again to you,  Mr Speaker,  and to the House that the Government was aware of the need for changes and upgrading generally in law enforcement. At the beginning of 1978, soon after the Royal Commission was established, I announced on behalf of the Government a series of new initiatives that would be taken. I emphasised at the time that those new initiatives were not to be seen as the Government's final answer to the needs in this area. We said that maybe changes would need to follow the close and detailed investigation by the Royal Commissioner. I regard the transferring of the responsibilities of the Narcotics Bureau from the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs to the Federal Police as being a major change. For that reason that kind of decision, if it was to be taken, should properly await a full examination of all that was involved in the Royal Commission. 
In regard to staffing, I was aware of the problems in the Bureau, particularly in relation to numbers. I remind the House that the Bureau was formed in 1969. It was a new initiative by the then Government to come to grips with the problems of the day. The Bureau has been developed over a period under successive governments. When I became the Minister responsible the number of staff was around ISO; it might have been 154 or 155, but it was around 150. Notwithstanding the staff ceilings that are in effect throughout the Public Service generally, I sought the approval of the Government to increase substantially, in terms of relative numbers, the staff within the Narcotics Bureau. The staff was increased by approximately 50 to try to overcome in some measure the staff problems that were being experienced. I repeat what I said earlier: We believe that any major reorganisation of the Commonwealth's efforts in drug law enforcement had to await the outcome of the Royal Commission. 
For the information of the honourable member for Grey and other honourable members, I repeat what I said last evening in relation to this matter. I indicated in my statement yesterday that the letter referred to was brought to my attention. I also saw the departmental submission which was provided to the Royal Commission of Inquiry into Drugs in response to the letter before the submission was presented in evidence to the Commission by the Secretary of my Department. The Secretary of the Department had provided a brief to me outlining the action which the Department had taken and which it proposed to take concerning the matters raised by the Royal Commission, 
Bearing in mind that  Mr Hampson  's letter contained generalised statements about the Narcotics Bureau and did not refer to any specific evidence or the source of such evidence that the Commission may have received, the departmental submission endeavoured to answer the assertions made by the Royal Commission. One would presume, of course, that the role of the Royal Commission was to assess the departmental evidence against evidence that it received from other sources. I have no doubt that it did that. The Royal Commission's considered opinion on this issue was made available to the Government in its interim report. The departmental submission is, of course, a public document. So all that information is available to the honourable member for Grey and, indeed, to other honourable members. 
Members of the Opposition have a copy of that confidential letter. I referred to it and to the matters raised by the honourable member for Bonython in the House last night. I also, of course, made reference to that letter in answer to a question from the honourable member for Grey. Let me say to this House in general terms that I understand the Opposition's concern in relation to these drug and drugrelated matters. I am sure that every honourable member is concerned. I go further than that; I am confident that every responsible Australian is extremely concerned about this whole matter. If the Leader of the Opposition and members of the Opposition are seeking to establish that there has been some negligence on the part of the 
Government, and on my part in particular, let me remind the House of a few dates because I think they are significant. I was appointed to this post in July of 1977. It was some two or three days after Don Mackay disappeared in Griffith. If members of this House or members of the public needed to be prompted to be concerned about this particular problem and to take some action, that prompting would have occurred at that time. 
Within a very short period- indeed, on 19 August 1977- the Prime Minister wrote to the Premiers of the States indicating that the Commonwealth intended to move to establish a royal commission. As I said earlier, he invited the States to provide the Commonwealth Royal Commissioner with a commission so that there would be one royal commission operating throughout Australia backed by all of the governments. The decision taken by New South Wales and South Australia not to provide a commission to the Commonwealth Royal Commissioner was a matter for those governments. I regret it very much but I level no criticism at them for doing that. They are sovereign governments and they took that decision. I still think it is a matter for regret. 
Contrary to what is suggested by the honourable member for Chifley, there was no refusal on the part of the Commonwealth to co-operate with the New South Wales Royal Commission. What happened was that we, as a government, through the Commonwealth Royal Commissioner, put in place an arrangement which we considered to be appropriate and which the Comonwealth Royal Commissioner considered to be appropriate. 
The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  said towards the end of his speech that the Opposition was acting responsibly in moving this censure motion. I draw the attention of the House to the fact that some time ago the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  wrote to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  seeking to establish a bipartisan approach to this drug matter. The Leader of the Opposition obviously had in mind that this was an important matter, a matter in the national interest, and that there ought to be a bipartisan approach. The Prime Minister responded and accepted the proposition brought forward by the Leader of the Opposition. The Opposition's handling of the Commonwealth Royal Commission's interim report represents, in my view, an abuse by the Leader of the Opposition and the members of his Party of this bipartisan approach. The Leader of the Opposition- 

 Opposition members interjecting- 

I shall be brief on this point because I just need to make it once. The Leader of the Opposition simply seeks to make political capital out of the Government's responsible action over this particular matter. If the Leader of the Opposition needs other words than those used by me- he has been very busy quoting from various documents, on many occasions out of context- let me quote from the interim report of the Royal Commissioner in relation to this particular approach and the damage that I believe that the Opposition is doing to law enforcement in this country as a result of the way in which it is handling this affair. The Royal Commissioner said: 
Strong criticisms publicly made of the Commonwealth's only specialised drug enforcement agency will compromise the national effort against drug abuse. In addition, many hard-working and dedicated officers of the Narcotics Bureau inevitably but incorrectly will be thought to be the subject of criticism. In fact the Commission recognises their efforts and their sincerity and sympathises with their inability to achieve more within the present structure. 
In relation to the present structure I remind the House of some of the things that I said during Question Time and during my statement to the House last night. I was appointed to this portfolio on 17 July 1977. On 19 August 1977 the Prime Minister wrote to the Premiers indicating that the Commonwealth intended to establish a royal commission and inviting the Premiers of every State to provide a commission to the Commonwealth Royal Commissioner. This was a government decision; I do not claim the credit for it. But  I  do say in this House that I played a major role in events leading up to the decision that was taken by the Government to establish the Royal Commission. We were concerned and we are still concerned. We wanted to have the best advice that could be obtained. We believed that the best advice could be obtained through the medium of a royal commission. The terms of reference were laid down in this House by the Prime Minister on 5 October 1977. Those terms of reference are very wide. They gave the Royal Commission an opportunity to inquire into every aspect of this sinister matter. But today we are talking about the administration of the Narcotics Bureau. I draw the attention of the House to term of reference (e). In part it states that the Royal Commission should look at:  the adequacy of existing laws (including the appropriateness of the penalties) and of existing law enforcement (including arrangements for co-operation between law enforcement agencies). 
That is a specific reference and direction to the Royal Commission to focus on the law enforcement agencies of the Commonwealth and to recommend any changes that it thought necessary. On 24 January 1978 I indicated on behalf of the Government that, despite the fact that the Government had established the Royal Commission, we felt that we ought to take some initiatives in this particular area although obviously the major changes would have to await the outcome of the Royal Commission. In a statement that I issued on 24 January 1978 I said, in part:  it can be expected that the Government will take further steps following full consideration of the findings of the Royal Commission. 
However, I went on to say:  it may be some time before the Commission can reasonably be expected to report, since it has only been operating for two months. 
It was because of that that the Government decided to take the new initiatives that I enumerated in the House last night. Events took place over a period of time. Some have been referred to in Question Time and by the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Adelaide. Criticism built up. I, of course, was kept advised of the flow of material between the Narcotics Bureau and the Royal Commission. I did not see it all and, indeed, I was not advised about all of the oral evidence that was given because some of it was given in confidential hearings. I was not privy to that information. No doubt when the Royal Commissioner reports towards the end of the year his final report will contain all his comments and criticisms and, importantly, his recommendations. I give an assurance to the House that the Government will consider that report as expeditiously as possible and, in particular, those recommendations. 
Because of the events, particularly the need to establish what has become known as the Hall inquiry and the allegation of leaks from the Bureau of Narcotics which followed the establishment of the Hall investigation team, I felt that the Government could not wait and should not wait until the Royal Commissioner reported. But I also believed that the Government would be completely irresponsible to take firm decisions, particularly major decisions, affecting the law enforcement agency of the Commonwealth so far as doing matters are concerned without knowing what the Royal Commissioner thought ought to be done and without knowing what his findings were in this regard. So it was that I discussed with the Prime Minister the possibility of the Government seeking an interim report. An interim report was sought from the Royal Commissioner. He agreed to provide an interim report dealing with the Narcotics Bureau. That report was received by the Governor-General on 18 September of this year. Seven weeks laterthere was not an inordinate delay- it had been studied by the Government, submissions had been prepared for Cabinet and Cabinet had taken the decision. That decision was announced yesterday. The Government acted decisively and the Government acted responsibly. 
Much of the Opposition's attack today and yesterday has been based on a confidential letter of 23 June from senior counsel assisting the Australian Royal Commission of Inquiry into Drugs,  Mr Cedric  Hampson. On 28 June 1978 the permanent head of my Department,  Mr M.  A. Besley, advised me of receipt of this letter and told me of the action that the Department proposed to take to respond to the issues which it raised. This was to be by way of a submission to the Royal Commission at its sittings scheduled for later that year. There was no criticism of the delay. The sittings were scheduled for later that year. Those sittings were, in fact, held in Brisbane in September of that year. When  Mr Besley  told me he had received the letter I instructed him to ensure that the Department co-operated fully with the Royal Commission in providing the information which it sought. At the time of my becoming aware of the letter it was clear to me that it contained general rather than specific assertions about the efficiency and effectiveness of the Narcotics Bureau. There was no indication of the source or credibility of the evidence which the Commission had received and which led to the letter from  Mr Hampson  to the permanent head of my Department. 
As I mentioned in this House yesterday,  Mr Besley  's evidence to the Commission, which was by way of response to  Mr Hampson  's letter, pointed out the Department's difficulty in responding to the points which it made. Nevertheless, the Department's third submission to the Royal Commission which was made in September 1978 was as much a commentary on the points which  Mr Hampson  's letter had raised as was possible in the circumstances. Apart from the submission itself senior officers, including the permanent head of my Department, spent several days under examination by the Royal Commission at its Brisbane sittings. During that period no effort was spared to provide the Commission with all of the information which it sought. 
Perhaps it is appropriate that I comment on some of the issues that  Mr Hampson  's letter raised. At the outset, the letter requested a considered statement by the Department. As I indicated, this in fact was done by way of the Department's third submission of September 1978. As to the substance of  Mr Hampson  's letter, I make the following comments. First, it raises the question of whether narcotics agents should be public servants. This, of course, is not a matter for the Department. It was by government decision that the narcotics function was in the Customs area of its administration- such decisions, I might say, go back to Federation. Secondly,  Mr Hampson  referred to  Sir Robert  Mark's recommendation that investigators from the then Compol be seconded to the Narcotics Bureau.  Mr Hampson  made the point that this would be difficult if the narcotics agents did not have police status. Thirdly,  Mr Hampson  's letter referred to the narrowness of the career structure in the Narcotics Bureau and the fact that its officers had limited opportunity for gaining experience and were more susceptible to corruption because of lack of mobility between different functional areas. The Department went to some lengths to explain that there were wider career opportunities in the Department and dealt at length with the training arrangements. I mention these points to indicate that the Department sought to respond to  Mr Hampson  's letter. 
Finally- my time is running out- the submission refers to what has been mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition in this House, namely, the openness of Sydney Harbour and the potential container problem. In responding to those matters, the Department indicated that 
Sydney Harbour was not dissimilar from other ports. It said, however, that in terms of its assessment of priorities, it did not have any evidence to suggest that these were wrong and told the Commission that if it had any specific evidence the Department would be glad to receive it. The Department has not received any such evidence. No doubt the Royal Commissioner will make observations if he has observations to make and he will make recommendations in relation to containerisation when his final report is presented. 
I have traversed in some detail some of the contents of  Mr Hampson  's letter of 23 June which, as I have said, was brought to my attention within days of its receipt by my Department. I cannot accept the view put forward by the Leader of the Opposition that  Mr Hampson  's letter raises issues of the kind which he suggested. Certainly the letter raised points which require full and frank answers. This the Department did in its submission in September 1978- a submission which was made available to me by  Mr Besley,  the permanent head of the Department, before it was made available to the Commission. No doubt the Royal Commissioner will make his own observations on the content of that report. That is why the Royal Commission exists. He sought and he had the right to seek and, indeed, the Government wanted him to seek, evidence from government departments and from any other person or group that could provide information that would assist him in arriving at the right conclusions. That information was supplied by the Department and it is a matter for the Royal Commission to judge its strength or otherwise. 
I want to make it perfectly clear in this House that the Government takes this matter seriously. The Government will take seriously the final report of the Royal Commission. It will take seriously the Commissioner's recommendations and we will act decisively as we have acted in relation to the interim report. It would seem reasonable to presume that the role of the Royal Commission was to assess all of the Department's evidence. I believe that that assessment will have been made and will be seen to have been made by the time the final report comes to this House and is made public. I conclude on this note. If any member of this House believes that I have not taken this part of my responsibility seriously let him stand. Let him stand if he believes that I have not taken it seriously. 

 Opposition members having stood in their 


 Mi FIFE- I am glad to see that members of the Opposition stood because that is an indication of their partisan approach. If the members of the Opposition were serious they might disagree on some of the decisions but they cannot fairly disagree with the proposition that this Government has done more in this area of responsibility that any other government in the history of Australia. It will go on taking initiatives in this area in the public interest. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) The decision in this case is contrary to the previously understood position regarding the jurisdiction of courts in relation to Part V Division 2 of the Trade Practices Act. 
It is also contrary to the Victorian Supreme Court in Read v. Nerey Nominees Pty Ltd (1979) VR 47, and by a number of learned text writers. 
Accordingly, it remains to be. seen whether the decision of the NSW District Court in this case will be followed in the future. The situation is being closely watched but I consider that there is insufficient justification at this time for an amendment of the Trade Practices Act. 
There is a great number of airstrips in northern Australia, as I am sure the honourable member and other honourable members will be aware. Indeed, they run into hundreds. It would not be right to say that all of those airstrips are under constant day-to-day surveillance, but details of the airstrips throughout Australia- and particularly in northern Australia- were contained within the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs until yesterday. Further, the coastal surveillance organisation within the administration of my colleague, the Minister for Transport, has a role in this area. Let me say on behalf of the Government that the effort to keep the coast- particularly the northern coast- of Australia under surveillance has been upgraded during the past two years. The Commonwealth has announced certain initiatives in this area through both me and the Minister for Transport. We will be continuing this effort and will be continuing to strengthen it. 
Pursuant to section 30K of the Industries Assistance Commission Act 1973, I present the annual report of the Temporary Assistance Authority for 1978-79 together with the text of a statement outlining the action taken during the year on reports made to me as the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. 
Pursuant to section 45 of the Industries Assistance Commission Act 1973, I present the annual report of the Industries Assistance Commission for the year 1978-79 together with the text of a statement outlining the action taken during the year on reports made to me as the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. 

 - Mr Speaker, may I have your indulgence to correct some information that I gave to the House during Question Time? 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 4) 1979 now before the House proposes amendments to the Customs Tariff Act 1966. The Bill, which contains 20 schedules, is necessary to enact tariff changes made by Customs Tariff Proposals Nos. 16-30 (1979) which have been introduced into the Parliament at different times since April 1979. Also included in the Bill are changes of an administrative nature. In the main, the amendments give effect to decisions by the Government in respect of the following reports by the Industries Assistance Commission and the Temporary Assistance Authority: 
Acetyl products. 
Australian citrus industry. 
Bags, sacks and certain polyolefin fabrics. 
Ceramic floor and wall tiles. 
Chemical products (Part A). 
Confectionery, chocolate and cocoa  products. 
Continuation of assistance for insulators. 
Hoists, pulley tackle and winches. 
Miscellaneous industrial machinery. 
Nuts, bolts and screws, et cetera. 
Oxo alcohols, butyl acetates, et cetera. 
Paper products. 
Spanners and wrenches. 
Sporting and recreational equipment. 
Travelgoods, briefcases, toilet cases and similar goods. 
Vices. 
Honourable members will recall that when the Tariff Proposals were introduced into the House a comprehensive summary in respect of each of the Proposals was circulated which set out the nature of the change in duty rates and the origin of each change. I have had a consolidation of those summaries prepared and copies may be obtained from the Table Office. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
I move: 
Customs Tariff Proposals Nos. 32 to 35 ( 1 979) and Excise TariffProposals No. 7 ( 1979). 
Customs TariffProposals Nos. 32-35 (1979) and Excise Tariff Proposals No. 7 (1979) which I have just tabled, relate to changes to the Customs Tariff Act 1966 and the Excise Tariff Act 1921. Proposals Nos. 32 and 33 contain changes of an administrative nature. No change in duties on the goods described in the Proposals is involved. Proposals No. 34 implement the Government 's decisions on recommendations made by the Industries Assistance Commission in its reports on grapes and wine; and spirits, spiritous beverages, et cetera. 
The Government has generally not accepted the Commission's recommendations contained in both reports. In the grapes and wine report, the Commission recommended that the majority of goods under reference should have a protective margin (including sales tax) of 25 per cent in the long term, phased in over a three year period. The Government considers that this is not the appropriate time for the reduction in protection as recommended by the Commission. Excess stocks of wine exist overseas and in Australia and a surplus grape problem has emerged in recent years. Consequently, a reduction in protection at this time could hamper the efforts being made by wine producers and grape growers to adjust their production to market requirements. The Government has therefore decided to apply the present General rates of duty to goods under reference from most sources. 
In its report on spirits, spiritous beverages, et cetera, the commission recommended that most of the goods under reference should be dutiable at 25 per cent, plus an amount equal to the excise on local production and an amount per containing vessel. The Commission also recommended the removal of short term assistance measures applying to grape brandies. The Government considers that acceptance of the Commission's recommendations, which proposed slight increases in duties applying to most potable spirits, would have relatively little impact on imported spirit prices, but would have required international negotiations under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, covering trade levels of a high order, to seek Australia's release from tariff bindings on certain spiritous beverages. Consequently the General rates of duty applying to most of the goods under reference remain unchanged. The Government has, however, been concerned at the difficulties facing grape growers because of the importance to them of brandy distillation as an outlet for grapes. Consequently, while removing the short term assistance measures, the Government has also decided to reduce the excise rate for grape brandies by $2.75 per litre of alcohol to enhance this product's competitive position. An equivalent reduction is made in customs duties in accordance with international commitments. 
The Government has also decided to remove the duty differential between certain locally produced and imported flavoured and nonflavoured spirituous beverages. All such goods will be dutiable at the lower 'flavoured' rate. It considers it anomalous that countries which traditionally produce vodka, tequila, et cetera without adding flavouring to their beverages should pay higher rates of duty than those countries which add flavouring. 
Excise Tariffproposals No. 7 propose changes to the Excise Tariff Act 1921 complementary to the changes contained in Customs Tariff Proposals No. 34. The changes contained in these Proposals operate from tomorrow. Customs Tariff Proposals No. 35 implement changes to developing country preference rates following a limited review of the Australian system of preferences for developing countries. The changes operate from 12 November 1979 and represent a decrease in duty rates on a range of imports from developing country sources. I have had prepared a comprehensive summary setting out the nature of the duty changes, which is now being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Proposals to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
I am indebted to the honourable member for Hawker for his question. It is a fact that the Government sent to the Prices Justification Tribunal a reference in relation to the processed food industry. It will be recalled that at the time the reference was sent there was not provision in the Prices Justification Act to allow for the inquiry to be held in public. The Act, of course, has since been amended to permit this to happen, and when in the future it is necessary to send similar references to the Prices Justification Tribunal the inquires will be held in public. I have received the report referred to by the honourable member for Hawker, and it is under study at present. I expect that the report will be made public in the near future. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to amend the Customs Tariff (Coal Export Duty) Act 1975 to enact the Customs Tariff (Coal Export Duty) proposals which I tabled in this House on 25 October 1979. The majority ofthe changes to the coal export duty, as proposed by this Bill, were foreshadowed by my colleague the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in the Budget Speech on 21 August 1979. As mentioned by the Treasurer, from 1 November 1979 the revised export duty applicable to high quality coking coal is $ 1 per tonne if that coal is extracted from an underground mine, a new open-cut mine commencing production on or after 30 June 1 980 or a major extension commencing on or after 30 June 1980 to an existing open-cut mine. 
In addition to the changes announced by the Treasurer this Bill proposes two further changes, with effect from 1 November 1979, to the application of the coal export duty. Firstly, certain coal which attracts a rate of duty as coking coal in terms of the definitions in the existing legislation is in fact salable only as steaming coal because of its high ash content. To remove this anomaly the Government has decided that coal which contains an ash content of more than 12 per cent on an air dried basis will be exempt from the payment of duty under the Act. Secondly, in recognition that open-cut mining technologies involving specialised high cost equipment are coming into use which make possible the excavation of coal at depths significantly greater than current technology, the Government has further decided that high quality coking coal extracted from existing open-cut mines at a depth greater than 60 metres will attract a rate of duty of $1 per tonne. The cost to the revenue of the changes in relation to steaming coal and coal extracted at a depth below 60 metres is estimated to be $50,000 in 1979-80, $2.5m in 1980-81 and $3.1min 1981-82. 
Honourable members' attention is invited to one aspect of significance in the Bill which relates to declarations by my colleague, the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony).  Clause 5 of the Bill enables the Minister for Trade and Resources to declare new coal mines or major extensions to existing coal mines for the purposes of the Act. 
For the benefit of honourable members, the Government considers that a major extension to an existing mine should be of such magnitude that it would, in other circumstances, be regarded as a new mine. Therefore, to qualify as a major extension, the extension should result in a substantial and ongoing increase in production which will generally require significant additions to the whole operational chain. Clearly, there will be a variety of circumstances which must be taken into account in the judgments of the merits of a particular case. For this reason the Government believes that that judgment is of sufficient magnitude to warrant ministerial declaration. Clause 5 of the Bill further provides, in relation to major extensions, a power for the Minister for Trade and Resources to revoke an earlier declaration if he is satisfied that the conditions upon which the declaration was issued, no longer apply. 
Consistent with the Government's policy of expanding, wherever possible, the jurisdiction of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal in relation to administrative decisions, I will be introducing a further Bill which proposes amendments to the Customs Act 1 90 1 to provide a right to apply to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal for review of administrative decisions by the Minister for Trade and Resources, or a collector of Customs which affect the liability for duty of persons under the Customs Tariff (Coal Export Duty) Act 1975, as proposed to be amended. 
Finally, although it has not been possible to remove the export duty in respect of coal in its entirety, the Government is of the view that the measures in the Bill now before the House will provide a significant measure of assistance to the industry. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Keating)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to amend section 133 of the Customs Act 1901, consequential upon the proposed Customs Tariff (Coal Export Duty) Amendment Bill 1979, to provide a right to apply to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal for review of administrative decisions by the Minister for Trade and Resources or a collector of Customs which affect the liability for duty of persons under the Customs 
Tariff (Coal Export Duty) Act 1975 as proposed to be amended. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to suggest that the House has a general debate covering this Bill, the Judiciary Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1979, and the Evidence Amendment Bill 1979 as they are related measures. Separate questions will of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. 
I have had my attention drawn to published reports of the takeover bid referred to by the Leader of the Opposition. I will do as he has requested and look at it in the light of the provisions of the Trade Practices Act, to which he referred. 
For the information of honourable members I present the Industries Assistance Commission report on tin ores and concentrates. 
Pursuant to section 10 of the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Act 1976 I present the Western Australian Local Government Grants Commission report 1 979-80 on the distribution of funds under the personal income tax sharing arrangements. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, the purpose of the Company Take-overs Bill is to set out the substantive law for the proposed new Australian takeover code which will regulate the acquisition of voting shares in companies incorporated in Australia. This Bill will apply that code in the Australian Capital Territory. The related Company Take-overs (Fees) Bill 1979, which I will be introducing after this speech will deal with the fees payable under the new takeovers code. The other jurisdictions that are covered by the formal agreement on companies and securities will then pass legislation applying this code in those other jurisdictions. Before I discuss the proposed new Australian takeover code, I would like to outline the administrative and legislative context in which the code will operate, and the present position in relation to the regulation of takeovers. 
Formal Agreement on Companies and Securities 
The new takeover code will be administered by the proposed National Companies and Securities Commission, the NCSC, a body which will be established by the National Companies and Securities Commission Bill which I introduced into this House on 28 August 1979. That Bill was the first of a series of Bills that will be introduced into this House to give effect to the legislative obligations of the Commonwealth under the formal agreement which was executed by the Commonwealth and all the States on 22 December 1978. I outlined to this House on 6 
March 1979 the main features of the formal agreement. For present purposes I would like to draw the attention of honourable members to two of those features. 
The first feature is that the NCSC will have responsibility for the companies and securities laws covered by the formal agreement subject to directions from the Ministerial Council for Companies and Securities which is established by the agreement. One of these laws will be the proposed new takeover code. The NCSC will, so far as practicable, delegate its administrative responsibilities to the relevant authority in each jurisdiction. The second feature is that the content of these laws will be set out in legislation that will apply to the Australian Capital Territory. Each other jurisdiction that is covered by the formal agreement will then pass legislation which will apply the relevant Commonwealth law as the law of that jurisdiction to the exclusion of its present legislation as from the date of commencement of the Commonwealth law. Subsequently, any amendments to the Commonwealth law that are approved by the Ministerial Council will have automatic effect in those jurisdictions without the necessity of further and separate legislation in each other jurisdiction. 
The aim is that as far as possible any person or company in a particular Australian jurisdiction should be able to deal on all general companies and securities matters, including company takeovers, as if that person or company were only subject to one system of law and administration throughout Australia. The co-operative scheme thus provides a framework under which we hope to be able to achieve uniform general laws on companies and securities that will apply throughout Australia. It was, however, never intended to fetter the sovereign right of any parliament to pass particular laws which are not inconsistent with the general legislation agreed to under the scheme. For example, the implementation of the takeover code under the scheme will not affect the right of the Commonwealth to legislate with respect to mergers as it has done in the Trade Practices Act. 
Public Consultation 
In embarking on this major exercise of legislative uniformity and law reform that was envisaged by the formal agreement, this Government and the other governments which are parties to the agreement have sought to ensure that there is at all times adequate opportunity for the proposed legislation to be considered by interested persons. For example, in February 1978 there was circulated to interested bodies a paper prepared by the New South Wales Corporate Affairs Commission on possible amendments to the existing takeover legislation. Ministers then met at Maroochydore to settle the framework for the proposed new takeover code. This framework was announced to the public on 14 May 1978. Finally, in December 1978 a draft Bill was released for public comment. The current Bill is a result of a careful assessment by the Ministerial Council of all the comments received on the exposure draft. 
I would hope to be able to follow a similar procedure in relation to the remaining Bills that will contain the substantive law under the cooperative scheme. I would expect that the Securities Industry Bill will be exposed this month. The final Securities Industry Bill, embodying the Ministerial Council consideration of all public comments, could then be introduced into the House in the autumn session. I hope that the Companies Bill will be available for public comment in April 1980 and then introduced into the House in the Budget session of the same year. It is hoped that it will be possible to obtain the requisite approvals of the Ministerial Council to all necessary legislation in time for the cooperative scheme to be fully operational by no later than 1 January 1981. I would now like to turn to the proposed new takeover code and its relationship to the existing law and to the role of takeovers in the Australian economy. 
Present Regulation of Takeovers 
The proposed new takeover code will replace the current takeover provisions in the existing State and Territory companies legislation. The essential feature of the existing legislation in the mainland jurisdictions is that it prohibits the dispatch of certain takeover offers or invitations unless the conditions set out in the legislation are met. This legislation is based on the second interim report of the Company Law Advisory Committee chaired by  Mr Justice  Eggleston. In this report the Eggleston Committee set out some general principles in relation to the regulation of takeovers. These principles would still, I am sure, be acceptable to the community. They are as follows: 
If a natural person or corporation wishes to acquire control of a company by making a general offer to acquire all the shares, or a proportion sufficient to enable him to exercise voting control, limitations should be placed on his freedom of action so far as is necessary to ensure: 
that his identity is known to the shareholders and directors; 
that the shareholders and directors have a reasonable time in which to consider the proposal; 
that the offeror is required to give such information as is necessary to enable the shareholders to form a judgment on the merits of the proposal and, in particular, where the offeror offers shares or interests in a corporation, that the kind of information which would ordinarily be provided in a prospectus is furnished to the offeree shareholders; 
that so far as is practicable, each shareholder should have an equal opportunity to participate in the benefits offered. 
Role of Takeovers in the Australian Economy 
The Eggleston Committee also pointed out that whilst some regulation of takeovers was agreed to be necessary to ensure fair treatment of shareholders, it could not be said that takeover bids always disadvantaged shareholders. Moreover, the possibility that a takeover bid will be made must operate as a spur to management to improve its performance and to disclose to shareholders the true worth of their holdings. I would also add that in a free enterprise economy such as ours takeovers can play a very important role in the efficient allocation of resources. In many instances takeovers allow for the introduction of new and better management and technology and for economies of scale. This means a greater return on investment, which is to the benefit of shareholders and provides greater security to creditors. Overall there is a net benefit to the nation through the better use of resources. The Government does not wish in any way to inhibit such takeovers. Indeed, the proposed new takeover code, which is directed at those aspects of takeovers which affect the efficient operation of the securities market, will ensure national treatment of this matter in the same way as the Industries Assistance Act and the Trade Practices Act ensure a national approach to matters with which those Acts are concerned. 
When making recommendations on assistance for an industry the Industries Assistance Commission is required to include in its report whether the structure of the industry can be improved and, if so, the manner in which and the measures by which the improvement can be achieved. Sometimes this involves advocating mergers to achieve rationalisation, with a view to bringing about economies of scale, lower prices, improved competitiveness and enhanced employment opportunities. In recognition of this the mergers provision of the Trade Practices Act prohibits only mergers that lead to control or domination of markets and even those mergers may be allowed on public benefit grounds. Consistent with its industries assistance and trade practices policies the Government does not seek to hinder beneficial takeovers. However, in order for resources to be allocated in the most efficient way as a result of a takeover, there needs to be adequate information freely flowing between parties. This allows informed decisions to be made by investors as to the best allocation of their funds. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
In many instances, this has not been the case. Some parties have used information which is not available to all shareholders. Others have made public information which is not able to be readily verified. In addition, there have been instances where, because of selective offers or misuse of conditional offers, particular shareholders have been discriminated against. It is these types of practices that are not at all conducive to an efficient use of resources or to an equitable treatment of all parties. While they may benefit the short term interests of particular parties, they certainly are not to the long term benefit of the securities market or the total economy. 
Proposed New Australian Takeover Code 
It is these types of practices which have necessitated the proposed new Australian takeovers code. The new code is designed to meet the following two criticisms  of the  present legislation: Firstly, that the present legislation has been avoided by a combination of private acquisitions or by purchasing shares on the stock market; and, secondly, that control of a company has been obtained without shareholders being adequately informed or equitably treated. In some cases offers have not gone to them at all. 
The general aims of the new code are to ensure that: Firstly, adequate information is available with sufficient time for shareholders to consider offers being made for their shares; secondly, there is equal opportunity for shareholders to participate in offers; and, thirdly, dishonesty and inequity are curbed without restricting or overburdening legitimate and indeed economically necessary business activity. 
A detailed explanation of the provisions of the new takeover code is contained in the explanatory memorandum which has been circulated with this Bill. An outline of the main features of the Code is in paragraph 13 of this memorandum. 
Basically the new code will prohibit acquisitions above 20 per cent and below 90 per cent of a company's voting shares unless one of the following methods is adopted: Firstly, a gradual acquisition of shares at the rate of 3 per cent every six months; secondly, a formal takeover bid, based on the procedure that exists in the current takeover code; or, thirdly, an unconditional bid for one month on the floor of a stock exchange. 
Each of the two forms of takeover bid will be subject to particular conditions to promote fully informed decisions by all shareholders. 
There are, of course, particular forms of acquisitions which should not come within the scope of this code. Accordingly, specific exemptions are written into the code for acquisitions such as those under a will, allotments in accordance with the terms of a prospectus, or acquisitions where the company involved may be regarded as not being owned by the public. In addition, the NCSC will be able to grant exemptions, with or without conditions, where this is warranted by the particular circumstances of the case. One area where this power may be useful will be in relation to the regulation of private placements. 
The code recognises that the onus for proper disclosure and equitable treatment must be with not only the offeror but also the management of the target company. To this end, and in addition to controlling the way in which shares may be acquired by an offeror, controls are placed on target company management to restrict the use of unreasonable defence tactics such as unjustifiable profit forecasts, unjustifiable revaluations of assets, unconscionable service agreements or wilful non-disclosure of information needed by shareholders to assess a bid for their shares. 
Although varying views have been expressed as to the extent to which the freedom of bidders should be controlled, the new code seeks to close loopholes in the present legislation and to improve the effectiveness of the existing controls. We do not wish to discourage the making of takeover bids in cases in which there are adequate safeguards for the protection of shareholders. The new code seeks to ensure that, as far as practicable, those safeguards will now be observed in all takeovers. I see this code not as an inhibitor of efficient and economically viable takeover activity but rather as an assistance to it. The code will promote investor confidence and encourage an informed and efficient market in securities. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, earlier in this speech I mentioned the importance of ensuring that there is adequate consultation with the community on the content of the companies and securities laws covered by the formal agreement. The Company Take-overs Bill has been introduced at this time to allow further study of the provisions of the proposed new code by both honourable members and the public. Any submissions that are received will be carefully examined. It would assist this examination if submissions could reach me or my Department by 8 February 1 980. 
I commend the Company Take-overs Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
As I mentioned in my speech on the new takeover code this Bill is related to the Company Take-overs Bill which will regulate the acquisitions by a person of voting shares of a company incorporated in the Australian Capital Territory. The Company Take-overs (Fees) Bill will deal with fees payable under the Company Takeovers Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the present Bankruptcy Act so as to create a common investment fund, to provide for a more equitable adjustment of the rights of both debtors and creditors, and to improve the administration and effectiveness of the Act. The Bill is the result of a comprehensive review of the Act in the light of judicial decisions on the existing legislation, submissions from, and discussions with, various outside bodies, changes in related fields of law and in social attitudes, and developments in bankruptcy administration overseas. I have had the benefit also of comments from State AttorneysGeneral on aspects of the Bill which touch upon the administration of State laws and the duties of State officers such as sheriffs. 
The Review of the Bankruptcy Act 
This present review of the Bankruptcy Act took as its starting point the comprehensive review of the Bankruptcy Law of the Commonwealth by the committee that was chaired by the late  Sir Thomas  Clyne, the then Federal Judge in Bankruptcy. The approach of the Clyne Committee, an approach which this Government endorses, was set out in paragraph 7 of its report as follows: 
The need for a bankruptcy law, based upon firm and long established principles, is not, the Committee believes, in dispute. It is accepted by the community that when a debtor has reached such a position that he is no longer able to pay his debts in full and there is little prospect of his being able to do so, his property should be made available, through a trustee, for distribution amongst his creditors on an equitable basis; and that, after all his property has been so made available, he should, if his financial difficulties have been brought about by misfortune rather than dishonesty or extravagance, be released from his liabilities and be given an opportunity to re-establish himself with as little delay as possible. The Committee equally believes that there is need to provide for the punishment of bankrupts who are dishonest and to safeguard the community against the early release of such persons from their liabilities and from the close supervision provided by the bankruptcy law. 
Following that review by the Clyne Committee, the Parliament passed the Bankruptcy Act 1 966 which came into operation on 4 March 1968. Since coming into operation, the Bankruptcy Act 1966 has proved to be generally satisfactory. However, as a result of our experience with its operation, the Government would now like to remedy a number of deficiencies that have been found to exist in it and to make a number of other changes that are considered necessary. A detailed explanatory memorandum on the changes that are contained in this Bill has been circulated to honourable members. I would, however, like to mention, for the benefit of honourable members, some of the more important of these changes. 
Establishment of Common Investment Fund 
Firstly, the Government proposes to establish a Common Investment Fund in order to recoup part of the cost to the taxpayer of the trustee services now rendered by official receivers. Some idea of the increase in these costs can be gained by comparing the shortfall of revenue over expenditure in the administration of the Bankruptcy Act. In 1969, the shortfall was $242,560. In 1979, the shortfall was $2,090,440. While the level of bankruptcy fees is being kept under review, it is considered that the shortfall in revenue could not easily be reduced by an increase in fees. Because of this the Government considers that the proposed Common Investment Fund is the best means of further reducing the cost to the Government of administering the Act. The Bill provides for the creation of a Common Investment Fund and all trust moneys held by the proposed official Trustee on account of bankrupt estates will be treated as a common investment fund for the purposes of investment. The interest from these investments will be paid into the Consolidated Revenue Fund in order to offset the cost to the Commonwealth of the trustee services it provides in relation to those estates. It is estimated that, in a normal year, this interest should increase the revenue from the bankruptcy administration by about 3316 per cent over current receipts. The Government believes that this proposal, which is in line with a long standing practice in the United Kingdom, will not significantly alter the return received by most creditors from what they would have otherwise, received. In addition, moneys in the fund will, in certain circumstances, be deemed to have earned interest for the benefit of the person or persons entitled to share in the distribution of those*, moneys. The proposed Fund will not, of course, . apply to trust moneys held by private registered trustees. 
Facilitation of Administration 
Secondly, there are a number of amendments' to facilitate the administration of the Act. The - rapid increase in the number of bankruptcies has severely affected the efficiency of bankruptcy ' administration. While the increase does appear to relate, in part, to a decrease in the social stigma attaching to bankruptcy in contemporary society, the main reasons stated for bankruptcies are still, in the case of non-business bankruptcies, the over use of credit, unemployment, and adverse litigation and, in the case of business bankruptcies, lack of business and management skill, training or experience, lack of sufficient initial working capital and the economic conditions affecting industry throughout Australia. A review of staffing levels and the introduction of Automatic Data Processing systems should, to some extent, alleviate the administrative problems brought about by this increase in bankruptcy throughout Australia. In addition, we are now seeking to amend the Act in a number of ways so that it is more practical and economical to administer and more in keeping with modern business practices. In approximately 70 per cent of estates it is now taking at least two years to realise the assets and distribute proceeds to creditors and this period is growing longer. The proposed amendments, combined with adequate staffing support, should result in a substantial reduction in the time taken to finalise estates, a consequence which, I am certain, will commend itself to honourable members on both sides of this House. 
One of the more significant of the amendments that will facilitate administration is an amendment which changes the name, and extends the present property holding functions, of 'The Official Receiver in Bankruptcy', a corporation constituted by all the official receivers. This corporation will now be known as the 'Official Trustee in Bankruptcy' and it will take over the trustee functions presently exercised by the official receivers themselves in respect of the estates of bankrupts and deceased estates. These amendments will remove the problems that can arise because of the present separation of the legal entity holding the trust property from the person performing the trustee functions. I would mention also that the Bill will enable unnecessary meetings of creditors and public examinations to be dispensed with. The experience of both official receivers and registrars in bankruptcy is that in many bankruptcies neither a public examination nor a meeting of creditors is necessary. These amendments, which will greatly simplify administration, give official receivers and registrars and amount of discretion to dispense with both the first meeting of creditors and the public examination of the bankrupt in appropriate cases. The conferring of these general discretions render unnecessary the existing statutory provisions which provide for such meetings and examinations to be dispensed with in the case of bankrupt estates deemed by the court to be small bankruptcies. 
Legal and Social Changes 
Thirdly, there are a series of amendments to take account of legal and social changes that have occurred since the present Bankruptcy Act came into operation in 1 968. One of the most significant social changes is the increasing attention that is being paid to the problem of rehabilitation of the honest but insolvent debtor who has been unable to cope with our modern consumer credit oriented society. The Government has carefully examined the various competing considerations including the need to protect the interests of creditors, the need to ensure an expeditious and comprehensive administration of the bankrupt estate and the need to ensure that dishonest bankrupts are punished. Following this examination, the Government has concluded that the qualifying period for an automatic discharge from bankruptcy should be reduced from five years to two years with an appropriate adjustment for persons who are already undischarged bankrupts immediately before this amendment comes into operation. However, I assure honourable members that the Bill does contain provisions to ensure that the public interest is adequately protected. To avoid abuse of these new provisions it will still be possible for objections to be lodged against the statutory discharge of any bankrupt. 
The provisions according priority to particular classes of creditors have also been examined. On 13 September 1979 1 outlined the Government's response to the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs concerning priority of Crown debts. I indicated then that the Government had decided to abolish all remaining Crown priorities in the Commonwealth sphere, except in relation to tax instalment deductions and withholding tax on dividends and interest remitted overseas, and to seek the abolition of all remaining Crown priorities in the State sphere. The amendments necessary to give full effect to this decision in respect of bankruptcy matters have been incorporated in this Bill. 
The Government has also decided that the priority extended to a claim for wages will be increased from $600 to $1,500 and the present upper limit of $2,000 on the priority for a claim for workers' compensation will be removed. In addition, a person advancing moneys for the payment of wages will be entitled to the same priority to which the employee who receives the benefit of the advance would have been entitled if his wages had remained unpaid. These amendments will bring bankruptcy law generally into line with the corresponding provisions relating to the treatment of wages in corporate insolvencies. The amendments also accord with the minimum action considered necessary by Commonwealth and State Ministers for labour in their 1972 resolution on the priority to be accorded to the payment of Commonwealth taxes and charges as opposed to employee entitlements in insolvency proceedings. 
The protection that is currently given to the proceeds of certain assurance policies in the hands of a bankrupt has been extended. There will now be excluded from the property of the bankrupt that is divisible amongst his creditors, proceeds of certain assurance policies which are received by a person within 12 months before he becomes bankrupt. These changes are seen essentially as an interim measure pending the completion of a proposed review of the Life Insurance Act 1 945. In the course of that review the Government intends to examine the whole basis on which assurance policies and annuities are excluded from the property that is divisible amongst the creditors of a bankruptcy. Depending on the results of that review further amendments may be required. 
Another matter of concern to the Government has been the fact that at present claims for arrears of maintenance are not generally provable in a bankruptcy. Because of the social significance of maintenance obligations the Government believes that all arrears of maintenance prior to the date of bankruptcy should be provable in the bankruptcy without thereby affecting the ability of a maintenance creditor to exercise all the enforcement remedies, other than imprisonment, that are provided by the general law. 
Public Consideration of Bill 
This Bill is a long and complex piece of legislation which has significant social and commercial implications and the Government wishes to ensure that account is taken of the views of those sections of the community that are affected by its provisions. The Government does not intend to rush into amending this technical legislation without adequate consultation with the community. Accordingly, the Government has decided that whilst this Bill should be introduced at this time, debate on the Bill should be held over until the House resumes for the autumn sittings in 1980. This will permit honourable members and the public to consider the Bill. I invite submissions on the Bill and any submissions that are received will be carefully examined. It would assist this examination if submissions could reach me or my Department by 15 February 1980. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill, the Customs Amendment Bill (No. 5) 1979, is to amend the Customs Act 1901, as amended by the Customs Amendment Act 1979, consequent upon certain provisions contained in the Bankruptcy Amendment Bill 1979. The Bankruptcy Amendment Bill 1979, when enacted, will transfer the trustee functions currently carried out by individual official receivers to a new corporate body designated 'the Official Trustee in Bankruptcy'. In consequence of this change, certain consequential amendments are required to Division 3 of Part XIII of the Customs Act 1 90 1 to transfer to the Official Trustee in Bankruptcy' the trustee functions currently imposed on individual official receivers by provisions contained in that Division. 
As this Bill is consequential on the Bankruptcy Amendment Bill 1979 consideration of its provisions by this House will be deferred until after the House has considered the Bankruptcy Amendment Bill in the autumn session 1980. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Criminal remedies are never provided against the Crown. The inappropriateness of doing so was referred to by the High Court in Cain v. Doyle ( 1946) 72 CLR 409, particularly by Latham C. J., who said ' ... the fundamental idea of the criminal law is that breaches of the law are offences against the King's peace, and it is inconsistent with this principle to hold that the Crown can itself be guilty of a criminal offence. ' In August 1 976 the report of the Trade Practices Review Committee (the Swanson Committee) noted that it would not be appropriate to attract the application of the criminal provisions of the Trade Practices Act to governments, and added that 'the civil remedies such as declaration, injunction and damages are the appropriate remedies'. 
No.See(l)above. 
Yesterday the Leader of the Opposition asked me a question relating to the matter that has just been referred to by the honourable member for Adelaide. In answer to the Leader of the Opposition I indicated that I would look at his question in the light of the provisions of section 50 of the Act, which deals, of course, with mergers. Subsequent to Question Time yesterday, I learnt that the Trade Practices Commission, prior to my learning of this proposed takeover and prior to the Leader of the Opposition addressing his question to me, had itself taken some action in this matter. I was advised this morning that the Trade Practices Commission has been in touch with the company concerned and has sought certain information from the company by noon tomorrow. In the circumstances, because the matter is before the Trade Practices Commission and is being dealt with by that body in an appropriate way, I do not feel that I should make any further comment. 
Briefly in reply, I indicate that the Government will vote against the amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  In so doing, I reiterate what my colleague, the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee),  said in my absence on IS November last. The honourable member for Adelaide, and indeed other honourable members, will recall that the Minister gave an undertaking that the Government would give consideration to this general proposition and also to finding ways and means to improve the handling of these matters. I reiterate that undertaking. I will do that during the coming recess, but we oppose the amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Pursuant to section 314 of the Bankruptcy Act 1 966 I present the annual report on the operations of the Bankruptcy Act 1979. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs 1978-79. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Minister for National Development's reply to Question No. 4328  (Hansard,  6 November 1979, page 2657). 
Broadcasting and Television Services in Central Queensland  (Question No. 4352) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Government announced a decision on the proposals for the petroleum retail marketing industry on 23 October 1979. It has decided to prepare draft franchising legislation for the industry and a draft Bill will be exposed for public examination and comment as soon as possible. The intention of any legislation would be to ensure equitable treatment for lessee and licensee petroleum dealers. The draft Bill will provide for payment of compensation to franchisees for unjust termination of a franchise or unreasonable refusal to renew a franchise. It will also provide for full disclosure of relevant information to incoming franchisees, rights for franchisees to continuation of supplies, without discrimination in the event of any shortage, and rights of assignment of their franchises. The Government has deferred a final decision on the possible proposals relating to price discrimination and a prohibition of oil companies engaging in retail petroleum marketing. A decision will be taken on these proposals after the Government has had the opportunity to consider comments on the draft franchising Bill and also a report from the Trade Practices Commission which has been requested to monitor and report on the extent of price discrimination in the industry. 
See (2) above. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Up until June 1979 investigations into allegations of graft or malpractice involving officers of the Federal Bureau of Narcotics were undertaken by nominated officers from within the Bureau under direction from senior officers of the Department. In those instances where allegations involved both Narcotics Bureau and Police officers, investigations were carried out by the appropriate Police Force in consultation with the then Commissioner of the Federal Bureau of Narcotics. 
On 19 June this year the Department established an Internal Affairs Unit, in line with the recommendations contained in a report of the Law Reform Commission, to undertake the investigation of allegations and complaints against Departmental officers including officers of the Federal Bureau of Narcotics. 
Investigations into alleged graft or malpractice involving officers of the Federal Bureau of Narcotics have been undertaken as follows: 1970-nil; 1971- nil; 1972- nil; 1973-1; 1974-2; 1975- 1; 1976-4; 1977-4; 1978-5; 1979-21 (up until 7 November 1979). 
Each investigation established that the allegations or complaints were unsubstantiated with the exception of the following instances where action was taken as indicated. 1974- The Narcotics Bureau commenced investigations into one of its officers who was arrested and charged on 29 May 1975. The officer was subsequently convicted and received an effective maximum sentence of twelve years. (House of Representatives Question No. 4275 refers.) 1976- Four officers were charged with offences under the Public Service Act but the charges were subsequently dismissed by an Appeal Board. Three of the officers resigned following the Appeal Board decision. 
In addition to the above the Government announced on 1 June 1979 that an investigation was to be made by a joint police group into allegations involving an unnamed officer of the Narcotics Bureau in Sydney. The report of this group is to be made to the Attorney-General. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Details of price notices lodged by companies are treated as confidential by the PJT unless the notice is examined at a public inquiry. 
Since July 1978 the PJT has held two public inquiries into the prices of petroleum products and details relating to those inquiries are contained in Schedule A. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Imported products such as dyeing agents are subject to the requirements of the Customs Act 1901 and the Commerce (Trade Descriptions) Act 1905. If dyeing agents are imported in a pre-packed form the package must therefore bear, in the English language, a true description of the goods, the quantity or weight and the country of origin. 
and (3) I am advised that there is no requirement under Commonwealth legislation for every colour dye used in Australia to have a code index number. 
There is a registration system for dye colours used in certain countries known as the 'Colour Index Number' but again there is no requirement under Commonwealth legislation for dye manufacturers to register their products under this system. 
I am also advised that dyestuffs used in certain industries may be subject to State and Territory legislation governing the labelling of goods in those States and Territories. 
Post-graduate Awards  (Question No. 4697) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have been informed that in June 1979, Golden Fleece Petroleum advised that it would cease petrol supplies to Southern Cross and that another supplier advised that it would have to reduce supplies. I have also been informed that Golden Fleece stated that its reason for discontinuing supply was that it did not have sufficient product to supply Southern Cross, to whom it had no contractual commitments, as well as customers to whom it did have contractual commitments. 
I assume that the honourable member is referring to the package of proposals which I announced on 30 October 1978. On 23 October 1979I announced that the Government had decided to have draft legislation prepared, for public comment, dealing with franchising in the petroleum retail marketing industry. The proposed franchise legislation would not apply to Southern Cross since it is not in a franchise relationship with its suppliers. A decision on the price discrimination and divorcement provisions of the original package of proposals has been deferred. In any case these measures were not intended to apply to independent resellers, so that they would continue to have freedom to negotiate with suppliers for supply on the best terms available from time to time and thereby preserve the beneficial effects on competition provided by independent resellers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have received a number of representations on this issue in recent weeks. While the Government has taken no decision to reduce the excise payable on lower alcohol beer the matter remains under consideration. The Government also has under study a report of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare which has made recommendations on this matter. 
Committee of Inquiry into Public Libraries  (Question No.  4861) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to my answer to House of Representatives Question No. 4634 for details relating to price increases for petroleum products resulting from public inquiries conducted by the PJT since October 1 978. 
The attached schedule updated Schedule B of my answer to House of Representatives Question No. 2279 of 24 November 1 978 and contains details of price increases found justified by the PJT for premium grade motor spirit supplied by all of the major oil companies to resellers in the Melbourne metropolitan area, from October 1978 to October 1979. It also shows the resulting maximum justified wholesale prices for premium motor spirit supplied by the companies during this period. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Bankruptcy statistics are recorded on a financial year basis in each Bankruptcy District The Bankruptcy Districts of Australia coincide with the States and internal Territories, with the following exceptions: 
The State of New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory constitute only one Bankruptcy District; 
b ) The State of Queensland comprises three Bankruptcy Districts: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 indicated on 22 February 1979 that the Government was anxious to reach a decision as soon as possible on the package of proposals relating to the petroleum retail marketing industry which I announced in October 1978. The package contains a proposal to prohibit an oil company from discriminating in price between its lessee or licensee dealers, except where such discrimination is cost justified or is engaged in to meet competition from a competitor of the oil company. 
The Government decided, on 23 October 1 979,  to  prepare draft franchising legislation for the industry. The proposal for a franchising law, which arose from the package, is intended to ensure equitable treatment for lessee and licensee dealers. 
The Government also decided to ask the Trade Practices Commission to monitor and report on the extent of price discrimination in the industry. The decision to request a report on price discrimination recognises changes which have occurred in the market situation since my announcement of the proposals. A decision on the proposals relating to price discrimination and the prohibition of oil companies from engaging in retailing petroleum has been deferred until after the Government nas had an opportunity to consider the report of the Trade Practices Commission on price discrimination and public comments on the draft franchising bill. 
See (2) above. 
No. 
The proposals raised many complex issues requiring thorough consideration. At the date referred to views and comments on all the proposals were still being considered. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Motor Vehicle Manfacturing Plan requires companies to meet local content commitments on an annual basis. Figures published by the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs for the first six months of 1979 indicate that Chrysler, AMI and Nissan may need to improve content performance if they are to meet their 1979 commitments. I understand the three companies have sourcing arrangements in train with local component suppliers which should result in significant increases in their local content situation. The claimed loss in business and employment opportunities can, therefore, only be hypothetical at this stage. The local component industry received considerable additional business in the period 1977-1979 as a result of the need to increase physical local content following an increase in the value of the imported components as a result of appreciation of the Japanese Yen. 
In 1978 Chrysler's Plan by-law entitlement was reduced in accordance with relevant provisions of the Plan on account of the company's failure to meet Plan commitments. This has been the only occasion, in the current Plan, that any company's by-law allowance has been reduced. 
The so-called 'fines' or 'penalties' are in fact a reduction in a companys Plan by-law entitlement. When a company fails to meet its local content commitment its normal by-law allowance is reduced in proportion to its shortfall in content. As a consequence, the company must pay duty at substantive rates on some part of its Plan imports. The precise extent of any reduction in by-law entitlement is considered to be confidential commercial information. 
There is no prescribed minimum reduction. The maximum reduction is complete withdrawal of Plan by-law entitlement. 
Japanese Fishing Vessels in Australian Fishing Zone  (Question No.  5057) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Dextrose monohydrate is classifiable within subparagraph 17.02.21 1 of the Customs Tariff. At the time the question was asked the rates of duty applicable were: 
General tariff rate- 20 per cent; Preferential tariff rate- 20 per cent; Developing country tariff rate- 20 per cent less $ 10 per tonne. 
The above duty rates reduced on 23 November 1979 to: 
General tariff rate- 10 per cent; Preferential tariff rate- 10 per cent; Developing Country Tariff rate- 10 per cent less $ 10 per tonne. 
Since 1 July 1976, Australia's Customs Valuation System has been based on the internationally recognised Brussels Convention Definition of Value. Current Domestic Value is no longer a consideration in the Customs Valuation of goods. 
The normal value was assessed under sub-section (3) of Section 5 of the Customs Tariff (Anti-Dumping) Act 1 975. This sub-section enables the use of a third country 'normal value ' where the Government of the country of export: 
has a monopoly, or substantial monopoly, of the trade of the country; or 
determines or substantially influences the domestic price of goods in that country. 
Malaysia was the third country specified in this case. The normal value assessed for dextrose monohydrate in Malaysia (converted at the appropriate rates of exchange at the date of assessment) was applied to exports of this product from the People 's Republic of China. 
Normal value of the goods under sub-section 5 (3) is the price of like goods produced or manufactured and sold in the ordinary course of trade in another country specified by the Minister, being a country in which, in the opinion of the Minister, the costs of production or manufacture are similar to those in the country of export 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. But I have been advised that officers of the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs, as a matter of routine, check clearances of goods on which diplomatic or consular concessions are claimed. These checks apply to all diplomatic and consular establishments in Australia and are not confined to any particular establishment. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Statistics relating to the number of insurance brokers, insurance salesmen and insurance agents who have become bankrupt since 1 972 are not available. For the period from 1970 to 1972, statistics are available in relation to insurance agents only and they are as follows: 
1969-70-5, 1970-71-3, 1971-72-2. 
Statistics relating to the number of persons who have entered into Deeds of Assignment, Deeds of Arrangement or Compositions pursuant to Part X of the Bankruptcy Act since 1970 are as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There have been no occasions since I assumed my ministerial portfolio on which I was so represented. 
Not applicable. 
-The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
1 ) Because controls relating to the conservation, keeping or removal of native fauna are primarily the responsibility of State governments and are exercised under state legislation the recommendation was referred for comment to the Council of Nature Conservation Ministers (CONCOM) which is comprised of Federal and State Ministers with responsibility for conservation. After consideration of the proposal CONCOM unanimously agreed to recommend that no action should be taken to relax existing Federal policy regarding the export of native fauna. The Commonwealth Government has accepted the CONCOM recommendation. 
No. 
Financial Assistance to the Handicapped  (Question Na 5260) 
