-I desire to make a personal explanation. I refer to the matter raised by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  in relation to an advertisement which appeared in the  Australian Jewish News.  The honourable gentleman not merely - 
I certainly do. 
It was the clear implication that the persons whose names appeared in the advertisement would have approved it. The  Deputy  Prime Minister referred to the advertisement being authorised by the Australian Labor Party. Let me state the facts. I am able to verify them for, among other things, I am the  President  of the Victorian Branch of the ALP. The  Deputy  Prime Minister should have known that this advertisement was not authorised by the Labor Party. 
I am sorry, the right honourable gentleman did say it was. 
I am a slightly used maiden, sir. 
I do not count it as a maiden speech either. Certainly the Deputy Prime Minister in the cavalier way in which he raised this matter has misled the Parliament in regard to the position of the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Party which did not authorise this advertisement. It was authorised by individual members of the Jewish community who support the Labor Party. This has been a long-standing practice of individual members of this community. If the Deputy Prime Minister looked at past advertisements as they have appeared in this paper he would find that various citizens of that community at their own volition from time to time have placed advertisements supporting political parties and individuals of their choice. That is a matter between those citizens and the Deputy Prime Minister. I suggest that - 
Thank you very much,  Mr Acting Speaker.  I would like to congratulate all the newly elected members of this House on their maiden speeches. In particular, I congratulate the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones),  the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe),  and the honourable member for Bonython  (Mr Blewett)  for their thoughtful contributions to this House. On behalf of the constituents of my electorate of Melbourne Ports, I would like to wish the new Governor-General,  Sir Zelman  Cowen, every success. Of course, it is a fact that  Sir Zelman  Cowen was born in the St Kilda part of my electorate; so that makes him very much a favoured son of the people of Melbourne Ports. I suppose that their other favoured son needs no introduction to this House. I refer to my predecessor, Frank Crean.  His  skill and dedication to his Party and the nation, both in government and in opposition, need no plaudits from me for they are a matter of public record. That is a record which many in this House will try to emulate but which very few will ever be able to attain. 
The Speech that the Governor-General presented on behalf of the Government is, on the very best view of it, a trite document. It expresses sentiments or contents so general as to be glib or alternatively so praiseworthy that we all would agree. The problem with the praiseworthy contents of the Speech is that it is in no way related to the Government's record or its behaviour. Let me refer to the eighth page of the Speech where the Governor-General states: 
My Government will carry out a continuing program of law reform, particularly with a view to protecting civil liberties and enhancing individual rights. Constant  viligance  is required to ensure that the rights of individual citizens are not eroded or ignored. 
What laudable sentiments they are. One can also almost see the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  burning the midnight oil as he writes them: I repeat: 
Constant vigilance is required to ensure that the rights of individual citizens are not eroded or ignored. 
It is legitimate for any honourable member of this House to ask: Have our individual rights been eroded or ignored?  Mr Acting Speaker,  let me refer you to the findings not of a party select committee or of any particular party but of  Mr Acting  Justice White in his initial report on Special Branch Security Records. I have been fascinated by the discussions that have taken place in this House about parliamentary privilege and about how this institution is enhanced if  Mr Speaker,  instead of coming in through the back passage, comes in through the front door. I have been fascinated by the view that somehow the doctrine of Ministerial responsibility will be enhanced if all Ministers of the Crown attend the opening of the Parliament in their mourning suits. I know that one of them carries a Queen's Counsel opinion in his hip pocket which will prove that he has never been guilty of any sort of unworthy offence. I put it to you, sir, that the standards of this Parliament and the concepts that underlie the whole basis of parliamentary privilege are not necessarily strengthened by the garb of Ministers or by the course by which  Mr Speaker  finds his way to the chair. 
Let me deal with some aspects of civil liberties which strike at the very privileges of this Parliament. They would be bad enough, goodness knows, if we were talking about just the rights of the average citizen. We find that  Mr Acting  Justice White had this to say in paragraph 16.1.2 of his report: 
After 1953-1954, Special Branch files assumed a new dimension of intense interest in (Labor) political opinions and (Labor) trade unions. All elected State Labor leaders became the subjects of index cards, and sometimes of subject sheets and files. Interest in extreme right-wing organisations paled into insignificance. Interest in moderate right-wing opinion was virtually non-existent. Interest in centre, moderate left, radical and extreme left opinion was the main preoccupation. 
I ask honourable members to listen also to what is stated in paragraph 16.2.2: 
It seems to me to be a grave invasion of the privacy of all A.L.P. Parliamentarians that they have, without exception, 'come under notice ' of Special Branch by having cards raised in their names (and sometimes separate sheets and files) by reason only of the fact that they have Labor sympathies. 
He goes on to point out that there was actually one card relating to a Liberal Party headquarters. There was actually a Liberal Party parliamentarian who somehow or other found himself near a bookshop and on that basis had his name taken. The mind boggles in respect of the one honourable member on the other side who might have got himself into that unfortunate situation. 
How do we as a Parliament listening to all this talk about parliamentary privilege and the rights of members contemplate a situation in which all honourable members representing the Government are prepared- and presumably the Prime Minister is prepared- to accept the situation in which they know that every member on this side of the House, and every Labor parliamentarian throughout Australia, has been the subject of a security dossier? On any view of it that constitutes not merely a gross invasion of privacy but also as gross a repudiation of the concepts of parliamentary privilege that I have ever heard. The Prime Minister cannot say that he does not know about it. He was written to by the Premier of South Australia who asked the Federal Government to ensure the destruction of any files held by the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation in regard to innocent people. I would say that I and all my parliamentary colleagues would fit the description of innocent people. 
I would have thought that a Prime Minister who was concerned about civil liberties and a government concerned about civil liberties would have given an unequivocal undertaking to this House and to the people of Australia that those sorts of files simply would be destroyed. But what does the Prime Minister say? He says that he made it clear in his reply that ASIO would not destroy records and files of actual or potential security relevance. I am entitled to say to the Prime Minister or to the relevant Minister in charge of this government department, and that is what it is: Ultimately it is answerable to a Minister of the Crown, and under our system it is ultimately answerable to this Parliament. I seek an unequivocal assurance that any files relevant to any member of this House and any files relevant to any parliamentarian in any State of the Commonwealth be made available to the Parliament. They should be delivered to the  Speaker.  Let us all have a look at what is involved. Then we will know just how sincere this Prime Minister and this Government are when they put a document into the hands of the GovernorGeneral. Talk about preserving our civil rights and our liberties! 
I want to turn to the question of this Government's political strategy and its constant peddling of the view which was reiterated here earlier today by the Prime Minister when he indicated that the great economic problems that emerged in Australia in 1975 were completely and solely the product of the Whitlam Government. As a strategy, politically, I understand that view. But let me say this: If the Prime Minister and his colleagues really believed that I fear for all of us, because inherent in that approach is the single-minded refusal to understand that the boom in advanced capitalist societies that lasted from 1948 to 1974 is at an end and that the very expansion in knowledge, technology and living standards that were part of that period have given rise to a whole new range of attitudes and problems that were referred to by my colleague the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  when he spoke so eloquently to the House about the problems of the post-industrial society. I will not enlarge upon those problems other than simply to say this: Reliance on large scale technology and the growth of big business promotes the growth of big government at a time . when I believe the social process requires decentralisation and participation rather than more centralisation of power. The massive use of energy- and it is interesting to note that within advanced Western countries the responsibility for the production of energy largely rests with governments- the development of multinational corporations and their role in the large-scale exploitation of natural resources will produce tremendous problems for Australian society in the 1980s. 
One only has to come to my own home city of Melbourne, which is now geographically one of the largest cities in the world, to see the problems that have been brought about by increased urbanisation. In 1971, 83 per cent of Australians were classified as urban. The future of our manufacturing industry is in question. There are real problems in that sector. I would like to quote from the Jackson report which was presented in July 1974. Things have not got better since then; they have only got worse. The major findings were: 
Australian manufacturing industry is in acute financial crisis. Unemployment is high. Factories are running below capacity. Many firms have borrowed to the hilt, with capacity under trust deeds and credit standing eroded. Their profit record and prospects make it hard to raise equity. . . . In part manufacturing's problems are manifestations of the world economic crisis in which all countries including Australia are enmeshed. But in Australian manufacturing there is a deep-seated and long standing malaise. That malaise has sharpened the impact on industry of the current economic crisis. When it passes, the malaise of manufacturing will still be there. 
There has been much talk about restructuring industry. Certain industries in my own State- the textile industry is a perfect example- are so located regionally that when we talk about restructuring industries we are talking about restructuring whole country communities. It is not a simple problem. It is certainly a problem that cannot be dealt with effectively by a government which simply says: 'We will solve our economic problems by making fewer decisions as a government and leaving it all to the private sector'. That is a view that is rejected by the more intelligent sectors within private industry. 
The central plank of the Government's economic strategy is deflation. It involves, first, the maintenance, and extension if necessary, of unemployment, partly as an end in itself, because the Government genuinely holds the view that if there is a high enough unemployment figure this will in fact reduce the level of inflation, and partly as a method of holding down wage claims, and thus disciplining the unions. Secondly, this economic strategy involves reduction in real wage levels over all. Thirdly, it involves a redistribution in national income towards profit, a reduction in the Australian Government's role in economic management and a shake-out in domestic industry to the advantage of larger firms and those less dependent on government support. 
The full employment pledge of 1 945, and accepted for 30 years by all political parties as the right of all Australian citizens, was abandoned by this Government in 1976. No attempt was made by the then Treasurer to indicate when, if ever, full employment would be reached. Less than a week ago in this House the present Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  took the view that there is really no economic crisis. Let us not talk about unemployment in terms of this Government's policy as some short term objective. The fact is that it is a long-term strategy, a strategy which will be rejected, once it is understood by the Australian people, particularly by that generation of Australians reared with the concept of full employment. In the meantime, this House and this Government must understand the very real damage that unemployment is doing to the social fabric of Australia. 
The economic approach of this Government constitutes the greatest assault on the living standards of Australian wage and salary earners since 1920. The mere fact that cheques are paid to the unemployed through the Post Office means that we do not see dole cheques. But the hardship is there, the suffering is there and the agony is there. The very same policies which are part of the total strategy of this Government were introduced in toto by  Mr Heath  in England and by  Mr Muldoon  in New Zealand and produced confrontation with the organised labour movement. The same will occur here. The tactic of trying to avoid confrontation by implementing these policies in a piecemeal fashion will not succeed. 
I believe that the average Australian worker will accept some degree of sacrifice in the interests of the nation but that sacrifice has to be equal and it has to be seen to be equal. In our society it is a bit hard to say to a man who is trying to keep a wife and three children on $160 or $ 1 70 a week that he should not have the full flow on of indexation and should make economic sacrifices when at the same time the Government is engaged in a sordid appointment for the former Governor-General involving sums and terms beyond the comprehension of the average wage and salary earner. At the same time that the average Australian worker is being told that he must make a sacrifice, one of the chief architects of this strategy finds it perfectly morally acceptable to make a windfall or a profit of over $70,000 from land dealings. Cynicism is a very real threat to the whole institution of Parliament and if this Government is talking about economic sacrifice let it show that that sacrifice begins at the top and not where it always begins in the thinking of this Government in terms of the living conditions of the average Australian wage and salary earner. 
This afternoon,  Mr Acting Speaker,  I heard the Prime Minister, when left alone for a few moments in the heat of debate without the aid of his script writers, pour out his venom for the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  the former Prime Minister of this nation. At that moment the real Malcolm Fraser revealed himself. The Prime Minister, the man who on Australia Day talked of unifying this nation, referred to the 42 per cent of Australian citizens who disagreed with him as rabble. That was his term, not mine. It is a turgid term. It is a despicable term coming from the mouth of a Prime Minister- any Prime Minister. But I will say this for the right honourable gentleman- at least he is consistent. 
Labor's program- the program of the Whitlam Government- rested on the assumption that economic growth could be sustained. In that regard we were wrong because we did not accurately assess the fact that the international boom was over. But that does not diminish either the credibility of the achievements of that Government or the ideals which sustained it. Nationally that Government gave hope of a new deal for equal treatment to thousands of Australians. For the first time in the fields of education and health care there was the view that these were matters of right for all Australian citizens. That Government removed once and for all the political divisions created by State aid. It involved the Commonwealth in its responsibilities in urban planning and water and sewerage supply and gave a new deal to local government in the affairs of the nation. Internationally it got Australia out of Vietnam, ended the blight of conscription and opened up a new era in international relationships in which all Australians could walk tall. 
The very expectations that this Government has raised as so-called economic managers will ultimately destroy it because nothing within its economic package will solve this nation's economic problems and nothing within its philosophy will unite this nation. The speeches that we have heard to date and the address given by the Governor-General indicate that this Government does not even perceive the great challenges of the 1980s. I assure the House that the ideals and philosophy which motivated the Whitlam Labor Government have not been abandoned by large sections of the Australian community and, more importantly, have not been abandoned by the Labor movement in Australia. I assure this House that I do not believe they will ever be abandoned by its representatives in this House. I am proud to be in this House as a spokesman for a great movement and a great party- a party which has served this nation well in opposition and which will serve it even more ably in government. 
I ask the Treasurer whether it is a fact, as reported in the Melbourne  Sun  this morning, that in January there was a break-in at the Australian Bureau of Statistics in Canberra? Is it correct thai a filing cabinet was forced open? If so, can the Treasurer inform the House what sort of information this cabinet contained and specifically whether it contained any information relating to the $20m computer tender providing for a replacement computer for the Bureau of Statistics and the Department of Trade and Resources? Was there any evidence that documentation had been disturbed or removed? Finally, can he inform the House why this matter has not been acknowledged publicly before? 
These Bills raise matters of great importance to this Parliament. I want to deal with what seems to me to be a set of underlying presumptions not merely in this Parliament but in the Australian community as a whole. They straddle all political parties in terms of our attitudes towards manufacturing industry. A view has been expressed in this House during the Address-in-Reply debate that really the economic future of Australia lies with our mineral developments; that is to say, that we will become some kind of great quarry. The wealth that can be generated by the vast mineral resources of our nation will provide the sort of economic wherewithal which will mean that our traditional reliance either on primary production or upon manufacturing industry will have to be less intense. 
In that view there seems also to be some kind of trade-off that in concentrating our economic efforts in that direction manufacturing industry can play a secondary part in the development of our mineral resources. A third view was expressed from this side of the House. It was said that some kind of moral obligation is placed upon the people of Australia and upon Australian manufacturing industry to be prepared to suffer degrees of economic sacrafice in order that we can be the repository of cheap goods from manufacturing industries in South East Asia because while that may not be good for us, it ultimately means that the results of our sacrifice will be a raising of living standards in those parts of South East Asia which undoubtedly, we would all agree, need some real increase in their living standards. When one looks at this whole argument it seems that it overlooks the way in which manufacturing industry in Australia has developed over the years in what I would describe as the regional nature of manufacturing industry. Let me develop each of those points. 
The development of our mineral resources will provide areas of inflow of funds from overseas which will make Australia economically viable. I do not think that anyone can disagree with that. I say to this House- we all have to look at thisthat the nature of mineral development involves a high degree of technology and in many areas it is not particularly a labour intensive industry. If we as a parliament and as a nation are prepared to say that we will chase a quick dollar and let our manufacturing industry slide in order to pursue the quick dollar, we will in my view be selling an important aspect of our heritage. Apart from that fact this would produce a tremendous economic imbalance in Australian society. 
I would also like to deal with the view that there is a moral obligation upon us as a nation to assist with the underdeveloped nations of South East Asia and be a repository for their manufactured goods. Let me be quite blunt; I think we have to be blunt about these things. I think it is perfectly proper for us to say to the nations of South East Asia that at this time in our economic development we have tremendous problems in employment and in finding employment opportunities for our young people and that as a nation, as a government and as a parliament we have a duty to our own people. I also think a lot of emotional nonsense is involved in this issue. 
I commend to honourable members a research document entitled 'Australian Manufacturing Companies in Indonesia: A Case Study'. It is a Transnational Corporations research project. It is basically a thesis which looks at the involvement of Australian companies in Indonesia. It is a case study of the effects of that involvement and what it means, not so much for Australia but for the companies involved- they are in Indonesia for investment opportunities. More importantly it shows what is involved for the future of Indonesia. As one who has spent not a inconsiderable period of his life arguing for better living standards for Australian workers, let me quote some sentences from this research finding. The document talks about standards that apply in Indonesia in regard to the Australian companies and in joint ventures in which Australian companies are involved. Page 69 states: 
Payment of penalty rates was varied, but information on this subject was not complete. Five companies paid overtime, two did not; three paid penalty rates, the rest did not. Only five companies worked shifts; four worked three eighthour shifts and one two twelve-hour shifts, the latter without payment of penalty rates. Whilst some  companies  did pay penalty rates for shift work, they indicated it was of no real consequence to the overall structure of the wage bill since there was no stipulated minimum wage from which to calculate over award payments. Employers simply took a very low base wage on to which they added their estimation of suitable penalty rates. Casual workers and day labourers employed at 50c per day on average received no overtime payments or other penalty rates. But those employed on a monthly basis received a guaranteed monthly wage often supplemented with a number of side benefits. 
Page 138 of the document outlines some conclusions reached in terms of the input into Indonesia of some of these ventures. It states: 
In sum, it must be concluded that direct investments by Australian firms in Indonesia's manufacturing sector result in or augment, the generation of serious economic problems. It operates, as did former colonial investments, as an enclave. It is characterised by sophisticated, capital-intensive technology, limited employment generation, the production of commodities unsuitable for consumption by the mass of the people. It does not have the capacity to assist, by the generation of spread effects, the development of a mature and diversified industrial sector within the Indonesian economy. What industrialisation does occur there will be that which is complementary to the needs of the capitalist nations, rather than that which can begin to fulfil the needs of the mass of the Indonesian people. 
I commend those arguments to those woolly minded exponents of the view that we in Australia, by being prepared to sacrifice industries like the rubber industry, the textile industry and the boot trades industry, are making some sort of moral effort to help the development of under-developed nations like Indonesia. Indeed, the conclusion reached in this document indicates that the standard of living of those people who are actually involved in those joint ventures are not substantially improved. The document goes further to state that the actual involvement complicates the proper, balanced economic development of those nations. It does very little to improve them. I do not say that that constitutes the total pattern. I do say that it is time this Parliament and this nation made a greater effort and involved itself in a far more sophisticated appraisal of the role that manufacturing industry plays in Australia. 
I read the annual report of the Industries Assistance Commission and it is a fascinating document. But one of the problems of manufacturing industry- it has been classified already by a previous  speaker  in the debate- is its regional component. It is all very well to talk about the restructuring of industry but an industry can be restructured only if there is a thorough policy of the retraining of people in that industry. This nation would be far more deficient than other nations in the Western World in the provisions of adequate job retraining schemes. The governments of other nations in the Western world, by virtue of their geographic location and the nature of their work force, work on the basis that any worker will be retrained during the course of his working life up to three times. But this Parliament adopts this odd Canberra mentality. We talk about restructuring industry as if we were not talking about the lives of Australian citizens. But that is what we are talking about. Earlier in the debate the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Ewen Cameron)  talked about Wangaratta, a country town. If the textile industry were taken out of Wangaratta the simple exercise of retraining the people would not be the only thing involved, and they do not have the structures to do even that. We would be faced with the destruction of the economic base of a major regional centre. The sooner that is understood by some of the people who produced these reports, the better off we will all be. 
In my view the approach to these issues has been far too academic and far too unrelated to the geographical and regional nature of Australian manufacturing industry. That is a problem which has bedevilled all governments, not merely this Government. It also bedevilled the former Whitlam Government. I believe that there must be an approach by government in terms of the amendment that has been moved in this House. It requires the Government to develop a medium or long-term economic strategy, including a viable manufacturing policy upon which to base general and consistent guidelines necessary for, among other things, the proper functioning of the Industries Assistance Commission. Probably I would have been prepared to add: The development of a medium or long-term strategy designed to benefit the development of Australian industry as such. 
I am concerned that an economic imbalance will develop in Australia. Part of the nature of this country is the development of political pressure groups on a State basis. The economic development of New South Wales, Victoria and to a lesser extent South Australia rests very heavily upon their manufacturing industry components. Queensland and Western Australia can see their economic future in terms of mineral development. But in my State of Victoria it is absolutely essential that the government of the day adopts both a philosophy and an economic program which involves new attitudes by government towards industry. That involves the setting not merely of short-term objectives but also of long-term strategies. That is not something that can be worked out just by the Industries Assistance Commission. It involves a much closer relationship between the Minister and his advisers and those who are actually involved in the day to day problem of running industry. 
There is a great deal of skill and capacity in Australian industry and in the Australian work force. I for one am not prepared to surrender the needs of that work force or the capacity of industry to some woolly minded objective. I believe we must get our priorities straight in this matter. For those reasons I support the amendment moved by the Opposition. 
I would like to finish my speech on this note: I do not share certain views which were put by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  I believe that any representative of the textile industry or any other industry, at an election time or any other time, like any trade union official or any political lobbyist, is entitled to put pressure upon any political party or upon the government of the day in order to maximise whatever benefits may be achieved for those people in the industry which that person represents. That is a thoroughly legitimate political exercise. I share the view of the honourable member for Port Adelaide that the Government in reacting to that may well have made promises which in the final analysis it will not be able to keep. But I believe that it is a legitimate and proper exercise. 
I hope that we will be able to develop a relationship between government, industry and the work force in industry by which the very real problems that confront manufacturing industry can be the subject of long-term economic planning and long-term economic policies which will enable the manufacturing industries in this great nation to develop- not merely to survive but to develop and to forge ahead. I believe that is the objective. If that objective is attained nobody has to worry about the sort of political pressure that comes from one sector of industry. This is part of our process. I suppose it is a reflection on all of us that it is necessary for any sector of manufacturing industry to get itself into that position. In my State and in the electorate that I represent the future of the rubber industry, the textile industry and the motor car industry is important to the living standards of ordinary Australian people and people with great skill, great technological knowledge and great capacity. It is important that when we approach these problems we see them in those terms. I believe that the annual report of the Industries Assistance Commission would be a far more relevant document if it also saw those issues in those terms and took them as its starting point. 
I wish to raise a matter which has already been adverted to by my colleague, the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  I refer to the somewhat extreme measures which seem to be contemplated in this Parliament for our so-called security. It seems to me that perhaps honourable members on the Government side of the House are having themselves on when they think that they are in fact so relevant that there might be someone in the community who would want to shoot them or blow them up. I am bound to say to honourable gentlemen opposite that, if someone were silly enough to throw a bomb onto that side of the chamber, from my casual observation the explosion would not do very much damage as those benches for the most part are vacant even when debate is in progress. 
I turn to one of the aspects of this matter that is serious. I believe that the average citizen has to have recourse to this Parliament and to the members of this Parliament. I believe one of the inalienable rights of citizens is to be able to contact freely their members of Parliament. But this nonsense is contemplated in this Parliament. If there is a terrorist group which really believes that it can do some damage to this institution by carrying out a well planned raid, its members will not be impeded by the fact that people in the building are walking around displaying photographs of themselves. I happened to be in Lod Airport within a matter of a few days of a very serious terrorist attack. That community, far more used to living with terrorist activity than fortunately we in Australia have ever had to contemplate, simply works on the basis that as soon as the attack is over the situation is returned to normal as quickly as possible. To the extent to which governments overact to these situations, terrorist activity is seen to be having some success. 
As a Federal member I occupy a room in the Old Customs House in Melbourne. It is a matter of concern to me that I learned the other day that people who come to visit me in my capacity as a member of Parliament- there are only two or three members of Parliament who have offices in the building- have to sign a book. I want to raise this matter with the relevant Minister. I object, as I believe any member of this House is entitled to object, to any constituent who wants to see a Federal member, for whatever purpose, being asked to sign a book. I do not know what happens to such books when presumably they are completed. I do not know whether they are put away. 
I would be delighted to do that, and I propose to do that. At the same time, as long as that building is being kept for public purposes and it is being used by members of Parliament- other members of Parliament occupy the building apart from myself- I object not only on my own behalf but also on behalf of any citizen who wants to go and see  Senator Missen  or any other member of parliament who occupies an office in that building. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Oh, no! 
I want to extend the argument I put to the House in the adjournment debate last night in terms of the political hysteria that is being whipped up in this community. It was commenced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  No one in this House can support the unfortunate incidents that occurred at the Hilton Hotel. But equally I for one will not sit back and allow the Prime Minister or the  Speaker  of this House to use that incident to erode an institution of this nation. I am referring to this Parliament. I refer to an article that appeared in the  Herald  newspaper. I suppose that the  Speaker  of this Parliament has rights as a member of Parliament. If he wants to write an article for the  Herald  or any other journal as a member of this Parliament that is his right. But I have the strongest objection when he writes a partisan political article which appears under his name as the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives. He talks about terror coming to Canberra. Where was the terror? He talks about a couple of cranks on a couple of occasions ten years ago. I do not regard that as an appropriate set of circumstances and I do not believe it is appropriate for a  Speaker  of this House. 
More important than that, having led with this sort of palpable political nonsense, the  Speaker-  a man who is supposed to be above the politics of this place- then enjoins the community to accept the argument that because of the incidents that took place at the Hilton Hotel we as a community ought to accept the fact that the security service of this nation- the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation- is entitled 'to gather intelligence knowledge about any person who may become a threat'. He did not refer to any person who was a known or suspected terrorist. He referred to any person who may become a threat. I have pointed out to the  Speaker  of this House my concern about the fact that the Australian Security Intelligence Organisationthis is clearly the case from the evidence collected by  Mr Acting  Justice White- regarded every member of the Australian Labor Party in every parliament of this nation as a potential threat and had collected dossiers on them. I am bound to say that some real progress might have been made in apprehending the culprits in respect of the Hilton Hotel outrage if our security organisations had been doing their job instead of acting as professional snoopers on people who are concerned to express their rights as citizens in the community and take political positions and attitudes which do not necessarily agree with those of the government of the day or the people who adopt the standards that apply in ASIO. 
Let me tell the Treasurer that the people of my electorate know a bit about terrorism because - 
The people whom this Government and its predecessors supported- I am referring to members of the Ustashaplanted a pencil bomb in the Richmond Town Hall some 12 years ago. It blew a hand off a child. A bomb is planted in the Yugoslav Embassy once every two years. Less than six months ago - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! It being 1 1 p.m., the debate is interrupted. The House stands adjourned till 10.30 a.m. tomorrow. 

 - Mr Speaker, seldom has any matter in any parliament in this nation - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
I rejoin this Address-in-Reply debate to make some comments flowing from statements which were made in the House earlier today by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  when the House debated once again the issue of what may now be called the Facom affair. I was concerned at several levels. The first level relates to the status and the nature of a ministerial statement. Under the Westminster system all honourable members are bound to accept the truth and veracity of a statement made by a Minister of the Crown to the House. Therefore, when a Minister chooses to make such a statement he has to accept a personal responsibility for the detail of that statement and for its accuracy. An extraordinary sort of argument was developed by the Prime Minister in this House today when he suggested - 
If I might make my remarks more general, it is an extraordinary argument, as a matter of general principle, for any Minister to produce a ministerial statement to the House and then to suggest that if honourable members are not satisfied with the veracity or the accuracy of that document, because the Minister concerned has gone through the exercise of handing the document over to some public servants, he should be able to say: 'Although all these matters are within my control and within my knowledge, if you dispute any aspect of their accuracy then of course you are attacking the Public Service'. That, of course, is a standard which is completely unacceptable in any parliament which purports to operate under the Westminster system. Having examined the ministerial statement made by the Prime Minister I am bound to say that such statements as have been delivered to the Parliament by the Prime Minister, when they are examined in terms of other available information, simply do not hold water in a number of serious regards. 
I want to reiterate quickly the claims made by the Prime Minister in his ministerial statement. I think it fair comment to say- I doubt whether any honourable member opposite would disagree with me- that the nub of the Prime Minister's approach to this matter rests with the view that the integrity of the tendering system had been put in jeopardy by the actions of  Mr Harragan.  That was, in fact, the substance and the nub of the Prime Minister's approach. In what has to be regarded as a highly personalised statement he referred to a whole number of occasions when he was concerned about that aspect of the matter. 

 - Sir, I shall relate my remarks to the amendment. 
The proposed amendment deals with the legislative program outlined by the Governor-General's Speech. It deals with a whole range of issues, among which is the question of civil liberties by legislative enactment within the power of the Australian Government. One person's civil liberties are involved in this matter, namely, those of  Mr Harragan.  He has been the subject of a great deal of discussion in this Parliament. I believe there are views that ought to be put in this Parliament, which have not been put, which concern that aspect of the matter. I shall ultimately relate my comments to that. 
The issue is simple. As I said, the Prime Minister had one thought running through a whole series of statements. It was simply that he was concerned about  Mr Harragan's  position. So concerned was he that he referred the matter to what must be regarded as one of the most high powered, prestigious committees of public servants that has ever been assembled in this Commonwealth. The members made recommendations to the Prime Minister in which they said that they could find no impropriety in respect of  Mr Harragan  which would upset the tendering system. That was their decision. I would have thought that it was then open to the Government or the Cabinet to accept or reject that proposal. The Prime Minister said that he was still concerned. He was so concerned that the matter was subsequently the subject of discussion at three separate Cabinet meetings. We have the extraordinary situation where at the Cabinet meeting there was a recommendation from this illustrious body of public servants, but the Cabinet did not make any decision. 
It was open to the Cabinet to say: 'We accept the findings of this prestigious group of men'. It was open to the Cabinet to say: 'No. Whatever their finding is we have to take a view which might be unfortunate for  Mr Harragan  and which in the ultimate might affect his reputation and standing. But that is what we are going to do'. That course was open to Cabinet. But it did not take that stand until the Prime Minister was contacted, not by any public servant but by a competitor who had a special business interest in this tender and who, it was admitted, had a personal relationship with the Prime Minister. This worries me and honourable members opposite must look at this matter. The Parliament was told by the Prime Minister in his statement- not in some statement by a public servant- that what was concerning him was this position into which  Mr Harragan  had got himself. The Prime Minister has been very reluctant to table the documents. I do not wonder why, because the more one sees of the documents that are in the file the more the position of the Prime Minister is put in jeopardy. I ask the House to compare the statements made by the Prime Minister about  Mr Harragan  's integrity with what is set out in a telex which has come into my possession and was directed from the Prime Minister's office- 
That is your problem. If I am quoting from a document that is alleged to be inaccurate, the matter can very simply be resolved by the Prime Minister putting all the documents on the table, but he will not do that. This telex was directed from the Prime Minister to  Mr Cobayashi  who is the  President  of Fugitsu Ltd, the senior parent company of Facom Australia Ltd. It is in response to a telex which was received on 10 February by the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. This is what concerns me. In the telex the Prime Minister says: 
I have noted that your company is concerned that the Government's decision in this matter could be interpreted in some way as a reflection upon the company. I assure you unreservedly that this is not the case, nor is there any reason whatever to reflect upon the personal integrity of  Mr Harragan. 
Time will not permit me to read the whole of the document into  Hansard  but, in the sixth paragraph, he states: 
The situation created by  Mr Harragan  's employment by Facom has also to be taken into account. As I have already stated,  Mr Harragan  's personal integrity is not under question. 
If honourable members or the Prime Minister believe there is a misrepresentation, let the Prime Minister put all the documents on the table. The one thing the Prime Minister is not entitled to do is to come to this House and present a ministerial statement which is not supported by the facts and is not supported by the view that the Prime Minister subsequently put to the parent company of Facom. What an extraordinary situation. What a dubious exercise in mendacity. There is one story for this Parliament and the people of Australia; and the Prime Minister refuses to make the documents available. But when some of the documents become available- and they have had to be prised out one by one- it is perfectly clear that the Prime Minister is saying something completely different from the parent company. Is  Mr Harragan  's integrity involved or not? Were all the pious sentiments that we heard from the Prime Minister and some of his back bench supporters just the view that was to be expressed to the Parliament by the Prime Minister irrespective of what damage it did to  Mr Harragan  while the Prime Minister was saying to the parent company 'Well, look, really it is not like that at all'? At the same time he was saying that he was in the interesting situation of not making any of the documents available to the Parliament. What is the extent of the personal relationship between the head of IBM Australia Limited and the Prime Minister? The Prime Minister in his statement says: 'Well, I only ever had one discussion . . .' - 
I can understand that honourable members opposite do not like being told about the mendacity of their leader because they have to follow him blindly. 
It is very simple. This is an exercise in the use of the English language, and I can understand that the honourable gentleman might have some difficulty in that respect. The Prime Minister does claim to have some educational capacity. I put this simple question: Although he has told the House in his statement that he had only one discussion with the head of IBM, how is it that in his letter to that same gentlemen he says: 'I refer to your letter of 2 December 1977 and to our subsequent discussions'. The plural 'discussions', is used. As I said when I commenced my speech, a statement made to the Parliament by any Minister of the Crown is a very important document. It has to be accurate and, above all, it has to be truthful. The Prime Minister has refused to make the full facts available to the Opposition or to the Parliament. He has refused to make all the documents available. But such documents as are available indicate that in critical areas the Prime Minister has greviously misled this House.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  it would be a serious matter for any member of this Parliament to suggest that the Prime Minister has lied to the Parliament. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member for Melbourne Ports would have to withdraw if, by inference, he says that the - 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, with great respect, you are slightly overanxious. As I said, I am certain you would agree that it would be a serious matter indeed for any member of this House to suggest that the Prime Minister had lied to the Parliament. 
All I am suggesting, sir, is that if one looks at these documents - 
I am perfectly happy to make them available to the honourable gentleman. I suggest that the honourable member who disgraced himself today on the question of private tenders ought to talk to the Liberal Party branch to which he belongs and which has been trading in tenders with Liberal branch supporters for years. I suggest he cleans up his own State and his own party before he comes into this Parliament and makes claims such as he made today. 
I finish on this point: The fact of the matter is that there is a grave discrepancy between a carefully prepared ministerial statement made by the Prime Minister to the House and the facts of the situation as they emerge certainly in one telex that has gone from the Prime Minister to the head of the parent company that subsequently lost a tender of considerable value. That is not a satisfactory standard. The whole situation is coming closer to being one of huge public scandal. There is a stench of corruption around this whole matter. It can be cleaned up only by all the documents being tabled. I suggest on behalf of all honourable members who are concerned to ensure that the integrity of ministerial statements is preserved that in the interests and the integrity of this Parliament the Prime Minister ought to table all the documents as soon as practicable. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Macphee)  adjourned. 
I rise to join this debate almost at the invitation of the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck).  I represent an inner urban electorate in the heart of Melbourne. I am bound to say that I have a genuine response to the statements made by the honourable member for Franklin. The reality is, as all members of this Parliament know who come from any of the major centres, and Melbourne is one, that there is no such thing as a city price. The honourable member for Franklin is quite right. In the short drive from my home in Richmond to the Parliament of Victoria one passes two or three petrol stations that are involved in discount practices. The honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Burns)  who is nodding his head, knows from experience of his own area that there can be tremendous variations in prices by virtue of discounting. I think initially that the honourable member for Franklin was inclined to say that this is really a question of Tasmanians against the rest of Australia. 
I know a lot about the bush areas. I spent a lot of the time going around the bush areas in my State. People who live in rural Victoria have been ripped off by the oil companies in Australia and will continue to be ripped off, just like the electors of the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  who, unlike the honourable member for Franklin, chooses not to get up in this House and make a speech but tries to make a speech by way of interjection. I will be interested to know whether the honourable member for Kalgoorlie will be taking the same principled stand as his colleague. 
This matter is very simple. The House is being asked to decide whether it supports the amendment that is before it. At least one honourable member from the Government side who represents a State that is grossly affected will support the amendment. I would like to know whether the honourable member for Kalgoorlie, the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom),  the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr)  and the honourable member for Bass  (Mr Newman)  share the view of their colleague. We are in an interesting situation. There are two Ministers who presumably sat in Cabinet and approved this legislation coming into this Parliament and who will be casting their votes against the interests of the people of Tasmania as they are perceived by the honourable member for Franklin. I agree with his argument. The issues were put succinctly by the honourable gentleman. 
This Government has had many requests for a royal commission to bring out the facts over the years from the automobile chambers of commerce, from all those people who are concerned with what is occurring in the oil industry in Australia. It is essentially a question of whether this Government is prepared to see that some equality is provided to consumers living in rural Australia, whether it will provide that sort of equality or whether it will simply- as the legislation that comes into this House does, and that is all it does- provide essentially a freight subsidy. Honourable members opposite know that the promise made to the electorate by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is not fulfilled by this legislation. He promised the people of Australia that immediately after the election the Government would take action to equalise the price of petroleum products between city and country without adding to city prices. That statement is clear and unequivocal. Honourable members have to ask themselves whether this legislation achieves that result. Without the proposed amendment this legislation does not go anywhere near achieving that result. This legislation provides a scheme which is designed to subsidise freight differentials in the transportation of petroleum products. That is the first thing it sets out to do. The second is that it will subsidise freight costs so that country consumers will pay no more than 4c a gallon for the transport costs. 
The scheme is estimated to cost between $3 5 m and $36m. It is hoped that the distributors will enter into an agreement with the Commonwealth to pass on the full benefits of the subsidy. But this is not the scheme that was promised to the people of Australia by the Prime Minister. That is the point that has to be understood by all those rural consumers who are entitled to say, as has been said in this House by at least one honourable member supporting the Government, that it does not do that. For that reason he is supporting the amendment proposed on behalf of the Opposition. The Prime Minister promised to equalise city and country prices. There is no uniform city price anywhere in Australia. Perhaps it would have been better if the Prime Minister and the Government had first of all instituted a royal commission into the whole operation of the oil industry so that the real nature of that industry and the exploitation of the Australian people by the large oil companies could have been properly examined. Then, on the basis of whatever findings were found by that commission, this Parliament could have introduced legislation which would have provided equality in terms of prices between rural and metropolitan users. 
This scheme does not provide equality; it only subsidises freight costs in a very limited way. It does not equalise prices at all. This Bill is a bit like the tactic that is used by some retailers who put advertisements advertising cheap commodities in the centre page of a newspaper. When one goes into the store one finds that the commodities are not worth buying but once one is through the door one might buy something else at a higher price. This legislation does not solve the problem confronted by the average user in rural Victoria, Tasmania or in any of the major rural areas of the Commonwealth. It ought not to be forgotten that this Government increased petrol prices by Ilea gallon this year and will increase the price by 10c a gallon in each of the next four years by raising the price of Australian crude oil. What benefit did that give to the average Australian motorist? None at all. But it was a considerable subsidy to the oil companies. It represents over $ 1 50m in profit to the oil companies. 
In my own State, Esso-BHP that operates with a monopoly in Bass Strait, will benefit. That single action of the Government is to put $1 10m in its pockets. It is an extraordinary action of any government in one move to say to Esso-BHP: 'We are going to take legislative action which will provide you- without anything else happening, without your sinking a single extra oil well or producing a single extra barrel of oil- with an increase in profit of $ 1 10m a year'. But his House is now expected to agonise over a piece of legislation which passes at very best only marginal benefits to country consumers. What expense are we talking about? An amount of $3Sm to $36m. That shows the priority and the attitude of this Government when it has to take a stand against the oil companies. Compare its actions in terms of the interests of the oil companies as against Australian consumers. Apart from the $110m profit to Esso that legislative action of the Government represents an increase of $42m profit to Western Australia Petroleum Pty Ltd. This means that because six-sevenths of our oil industry in Australia is owned by overseas companies, 90 per cent of that $150m will be going out of Australia. 
I want to bring the House back to the interesting question that now confronts the Government. It has a simple choice. It can adopt that amendment that is before the House and in doing that it would at least recognise the nature and the dimension of this problem and move into a position where it could take further action to deal with it. But if we pass this legislation in its present form, using the sort of rhetoric and the arguments that are presented in the second reading speech then in fact we are simply perpetrating a confidence trick on the people of Australialargely on the rural consumers. It is a confidence trick directed at the people of Australia. Again, while I commend the action taken by one supporter of the Government from Tasmania who has found his conscience on this matter - 
One lives dangerously in the presence of the Prime Minister's knife. 
I will address myself to the Bill but I am certainly entitled to say that members of the Government parties live very uncomfortably close to the Prime Minister's knife. 
I am entitled to make that statement, sir, and I make it. 
That is so, he represented his seat far more adequately than the honourable member who has just interjected and behaved himself with far more honour and principle in this House than the honourable member has thus far shown. 
I challenge the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman). 
I think he has been so moved by the conscience of one of his colleagues that he has decided that the best place to be is outside this chamber. At least the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  chooses to remain. I challenge the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr). 
I want to know whether he shares the view of his colleague about the future of Tasmania. I challenge the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom).  I challenge the honourable member for Bass  (Mr Newman). 
When this legislation was being discussed in the Cabinet, as it must have been, surely those young Ministers would have been prepared to say that this legislation is a fraud on the people of Tasmania and that they would not have a bar of it. I realise it is a bit dangerous to disagree with the Prime Minister but surely they were prepared to take the view which has been expressed so eloquently in the House tonight. That is what has been said in this House by a supporter of the Government. We, and particularly the people of Tasmania, are entitled to know whether there is only one member of the Liberal Party in Tasmania who has the courage to stand up to the Prime Minister. Is there only one member of the Liberal Party in Tasmania who is prepared to say: 'I will not be a party to it. I will not have a bar of this degree of blatant misrepresentation. ' 
I have not heard from the honourable member for Kalgoorlie during the course of this debate. It is very easy to make speeches and get your name in  Hansard  by way of interjection. I challenge the honourable member for Kalgoorlie to get up in this House and tell us what benefits flow to the people of Kalgoorlie from this legislation because that is what the honourable gentleman and the people of Kalgoorlie were promised by the Prime Ministernothing more, nothing less. 
The problem with the honourable gentleman is that he does not use petrol; he sniffs it. The honourable gentleman is entitled to tell the people of Kalgoorlie - 
-The honourable gentleman has not requested me to withdraw it. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, on the basis of your knowledge and the honourable member's lack of knowledge, because he does not object, I will certainly withdraw it. 

 - Sir, never let it be said that I treat the Chair with anything less than full grace. One is entitled to ask of those members who will cast their votes tonight, having been told by members of the Opposition- we are used to the fact that they do not believe us and do not accept our arguments- and having been told by one of their colleagues that what they are doing in casting their votes - 
What the honourable gentleman indicated was that he would vote for the amendment, and properly so. I commend him fork. 
All I can say is that the honourable gentleman has a perception which certainly is higher than that of at least two members from his State who are members of the Cabinet. They do not see the same argument. 
I am sorry to offend the susceptibilities of the honourable gentleman but the reality is that there comes a time in this House when members representing rural electorates are entitled to speak up- I commend the honourable gentleman for it- on behalf of the interests of their electorates as they perceive them. On this occasion it happens that we share the view of the honourable gentleman. The amendment states very clearly that this legislation does not fulfil in any way the promise that was made to rural Australia in terms of equalising the price of petroleum products between city and country. It is as simple as that. All we are saying is that if it is good enough for the Prime Minister to say on the hustings to the people who live outside major regional centres that this Government will equalise petrol prices, the legislation should reflect that promise. It is as simple as that. 
Let me place my position on the record so that everyone understands it. As far as I am concerned the people in Victoria - 
-The people in Melbourne, in my electorate, are Australians and are entitled to challenge the oil companies on their exploitation of those reserves and their exploitation of people living outside metropolitan areas and they ought to be taking the lead. That is my position and I make no apology for it. This legislation perpetrates a fraud on every consumer who lives outside a major metropolitan area. The best thing the Government can &lt;lo with this legislation is to take it away, have another look at it, and bring back legislation which gives every Australian a fair go. It will not do that because it is afraid to take on the oil companies that at the moment exploit not merely the Australian people but also our resources. They particularly exploit those people who live outside metropolitan areas. 
-by leave- I join the debate to support the views expressed by some of my colleagues on this matter and to express my concern, with great respect to you,  Mr Speaker,  and to the Chair, about an article which was attributed to you in the Melbourne  Herald.  The article carried the unfortunate heading: 'Terror comes to Canberra'. If there are clear and discernible threats to the safety of members of the Parliament or the staff of the Parliament they ought to be identified. I would invite you, sir, to do that with some particularity. I have no doubt that from the high and responsible position that you hold you will be deeply conscious of the basic privileges of all members. They are not matters that can be just cast aside lightly. The right of honourable members to free ingress and egress to and from this place is something, sir, which has unfortunately been raised as a result of the opening of Parliament. Members who were entitled to pass freely to and from the chambers in this place were delayed and impeded in their passage, and, sir, within the Westminister tradition that does raise serious matters of privilege. 
The fart is, sir, that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  might take a view about security- a view that he is entitled to have- and you might share that view. That is no reason why those of us who do not quite share that view should be placed in a situation in which we are just simply told that procedures will be adopted and that you, sir, will take steps on our behalf. The question of my rights as a member of this place- they are no greater and no less than the rights of other members- has been raised. With great respect to you, sir, it is your prerogative and your duty to uphold those rights and to uphold them in terms of the traditions of the Westminister system. They just cannot simply be lightly cast aside because the Prime Minister is concerned to perpetrate an exercise. 
I did not say that, sir. I would not be taken to say that. I say- I say it with great respect to the Chair, but I am bound to say itthat I believe you share that view. I do not say that you were intimidated. I would not say that for one moment. 
The specific point I ask you to heed is that I believe the question of the security of this Parliament is something about which all honourable members ought to be in agreement, consulted about and involved in. 
I would suggest that the proper and appropriate process would be to refer these recommendations made by you and the  President  to the Privileges Committee of this House because I believe that there is safety in the numbers of this House and that there is safety in a Privileges Committee. I believe that you,  Mr Speaker,  would be doing yourself and this House a great service if whatever security measures were taken enjoyed the confidence of all honourable members. I am bound to say, again with great respect to the Chair, that I, for one, am unhappy about the way in which these measures simply have been introduced. I believe it is a matter of great importance. I believe that whatever security measures have to be taken ought to have full regard to the very important privileges and rights that are attached to this Parliament. I am fearful that we may allow those rights to be eroded, with the best of intentions and with the best of attitudes. Those rights had to be fought for over many years and over many centuries. I would ask you, sir - 
I am talking about the rights of all honourable members to enter freely this place and to move around. I ask you,  Mr Speaker,  to refer these matters to the Privileges Committee because I genuinely believe that this matter ought not to be either a matter of disputation or a matter about which any honourable member has any reservation. Already reservation has been expressed to you by honourable members on this side of the House, many of whom hold far more significant positions than I do. I ask you, sir, to take cognisance of them. 
However, I want to make a couple of points myself in relation to what has been said. In the first place I regard my duty to the parliamentary system and to democracy in this country very highly. I have been aware that I have an important responsibility to balance the right of people to visit, see and hear the proceedings in this chamber without let or hindrance. I am also conscious that within the parliamentary democracy it is fundamental that people who are elected to come here and serve and those people who serve the members and senators must have security or they will not be able to fulfil the functions for which they were elected. It is a delicate balance. For that reason I have been very anxious that there be no greater inconvenience than is absolutely necessary for the level of security which we would wish to have. I am bound to say that even with the level of security which we have now adopted there will be risks entailed for all members of the Parliament. It is impossible to eliminate risks except by quarantining members or totally excluding access for the public. I was not prepared to do that and neither was the  President. 
What we have now adopted is, I think, a sound system. I ask for the co-operation of all members in making it work. There will be inconveniences to members but there will be no hindrance to members. Members will be identified by all the attendants and will be allowed to walk free, as they ought to be. If there is any hindrance to members that will be corrected. The pass system will be instituted so that all persons legitimately in the building will have the same freedom of movement as they have hitherto had. I would like all honourable members, and this applies also to senators, to co-operate to the fullest extent. 
I do not propose to refer any of these matters to any committee for I and the  President  have to accept a responsibility and we have done so. Simply because we are presiding officers we are answerable to our chambers. I am answerable to this chamber and I am the servant of this chamber. If the chamber directs me in any way I will accept that direction. In the meantime I will exercise my responsibility as I think it proper. I call the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. 

 -Mr Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Hodges)  put: 
That the question be now put. 

 -Mr Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-I ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs to consider as a proper and honourable course available to this Parliament to have the Committee report progress in respect of this Bill in order that the members of the Aboriginal community who have had little time to consider its implications which vitally affect their future will be given time to give the Bill that consideration. I believe that that is the proper course. I do not know whether the Aborigines will accept our amendments or support the Government's Bill. It may well be that they regard the Bill as entirely adequate. But it is wrong and hypocritical for the Committee to say that it is passing a Bill which will enable Aboriginal citizens to make decisions about their own future. It is silly for the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to be saying that this Government is about to give Aborigines the right to make decisions about their own future when the first request that comes from their own body, the National Aboriginal Conference, of which the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs thinks highly, is to give it some time so that it can deliberate on this legislation, make submissions if it feels the need to do so and come back to the Parliament on the matter. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I seek leave to move four amendments to this clause. 
Leave granted. 
I move: 
Omit the definition of 'Aboriginal Community', substitute the following definition: 'Aboriginal Community' means a community of persons that, on 3 1 March 1 978, was a community for Aborigines for the purposes of the Aborigines Act; '. 
Omit the definition of 'Aboriginal Reserve', substitute the following definition: ' "Aboriginal Reserve" means any land that, on 3 1 March 1978, was a reserve for the purposes of the Aborigines Act; '. 
Omit the definition of 'Islander Community', substitute the following definition: ' "Islander Community" means a community of persons that, on 31 March 1978, was a community for Islanders for the purposes of the Torres Strait Islanders Act; '. 
Omit the definition of 'Islander Reserve', substitute the following definition: ' "Islander Reserve" means any land that, on 31 March 1978, was a reserve for the purposes of the Torres Strait Islanders Act; '. 
In moving the amendments, I suggest to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  to the Government and to the Committee that it would be appropriate at this stage of the deliberations for the Minister to move that progress be reported, the amendments having been circulated and in the hands of honourable members. Although I am a new member of the Parliament I have had some experience in another parliament, and I am completely appalled at a process which introduces into the House a Bill that the Government has said pays regard to the wishes, the desires and the aspirations of the Aboriginal community to make their own decisions and to be involved in the important process of decision-making as citizens of that great Commonwealth. I am bound to say that the Aboriginal community and the members of the National Aboriginal Conference who have sat in the Parliament throughout the debate have indicated the degree of their interest and concern in this matter. 
I wish to place my protest on record and to urge the Minister to consider what he is doing. He received today a telegram from the National Aboriginal Conference. What did that telegram ask the Government to do? It was the unanimous decision of the first conference of people representing the opinions and thoughts and feelings of the Aboriginal people - 
I will read it out for the benefit of the honourable member. I think it is important that Government members know what is in the telegram because it involves some very important matters of principle. The telegram states: 
NAC unanimously moved this morning to request the Federal Government and the Parliament to delay passage of the Bill for the normal period of approximately one week so that the people of Mornington Island, Aurukun, the Uniting Church Queensland, the NAC can seek independent legal advice and make recommendations to overcome obvious inadequacies in the proposed legislation. 
The motion was moved by the Queensland Chairman and seconded by Isaac Zingle representing Aurukun and Tony Assan representing Mornington Island. 
I can and I will. What concerns me, and I say this to the honourable member for Hindmarsh, is this: Has a more reasonable request ever been made to any parliament in the Commonwealth? I realise that the Aboriginal people do not carry quite the same weight with the Minister as does  Mr Moyes  and the representatives of IBM. They might not carry the same weight as people who contribute large amounts to the political funds of Government parties, but has a more legitimate request ever come before the Parliament? It is a plea to the Parliament and to the Minister, who less than three days ago was the sponsor of a function at which he told the members of the National Aboriginal Conference how delighted he was to have them here, how concerned he was that they should engage in deliberations and let him and the Government know what they wanted. If ever there was an exercise in political hypocrisy and political patronage it is this one. On Monday night the Minister acted as host at a function of the National Aboriginal Conference, but when every member of that Conference asks him to do nothing more than delay the passage of this legislation for one week to enable them to consider its implications, obtain their own legal advice and put whatever representations they feel can be put to him, this Government turns its back on that request. 
This request represents a plea to the honourable member, who has not been in the chamber all night. I condemn him for that. The Aboriginal people have sat here and listened to the argument. The honourable member has not. It is time that the Parliament and members of the Government made up their minds about this. Do they really regard this exercise as being one of trooping in through the door and putting up their hands, turning their backs on one of the most legitimate and proper requests ever to have come before a parliament? Is this an enormous demand? What the Aboriginal people are asking for is very simple. They are asking the Government to pause for one week. What is going to happen in the course of one week? The Premier of Queensland has said that he wants a cooling-off period. Presumably he is not doing anything. 
The Premier of Queensland, and the records are here, has said on public radio that as far as he is concerned there ought to be a cooling-off period. Interestingly enough, he has also said that there have been all sorts of telephone conversations and he is not very worried because everything will be all right in the end. There is no element of urgency, and the National Aboriginal Conference has said to the members of the House of Representatives: 'We want you to pause. We want you to think. We want you to give us time so that we can get the benefit of our own independent legal assistance.' I am not going to be a hypocrite. I know and the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  knows that he is going to vote against all these amendments. I am not going to waste my time putting legal arguments about a set of amendments that the honourable member knows he and every one of his colleagues will vote against. 
-I am not going to try to persuade you. The honourable member is the  chairman  of an all-party parliamentary committee and he moves around Australia saying that he is concerned about the plight and the problems of the Aborigines. I accept his concern, but the real test for the honourable gentleman is this: This is not an improper request. It is a highly responsible and proper request from a group of Australian citizens whose future is being determined by this legislation. They have asked the Parliament and the Minister for a delay of one weekthat is all they have asked for- in order to get an independent assessment of the effect that this legislation will have on them and in order to make representations to the Minister. The Minister has not told this House what is wrong with that request. Honourable members opposite can talk until they are blue in the face about Aurukun and Mornington Island. They say on the one hand that they believe - 
Consideration interrupted. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  It being 10.30 p.m., in accordance with the order of the House I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
I seek leave to move amendments 9 to 16 as circulated, together with an additional amendment which I understand is in the hands of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  and the Chair. 
Leave granted. 
The amendments relate to clauses 7, 9, 10, 12 and 15 and propose the addition of a new clause 12a. The relevant clauses read in part as follows: 
Clause 7. 
The Council for a Community to which this Act applies has such other functions as are conferred on it by the regulations, being functions in relation to Aboriginals or Islanders who are members of that Community or are on that part of the Reserve on which the Community is established that is appropriated for the use of the Community. 
Clause 9. 
Sub-section (1) shall not be construed as preventing any body, authority or person other than the Council for a Reserve to which this Act applies, or for a Communtiy to which this Act applies, from providing or making available for the Aboriginals or Islanders who reside on the Reserve or who are members of that Community, as the case may be, any services, including services relating to all or any of the matters specified in sub-section ( 1 ). 
Clause 10. 
A by-law has no effect unless it has been approved by the Minister. 
Where the Minister approves any by-laws, he shall cause a copy of the by-laws to be laid before each House of the Parliament within IS sitting days of that House after the giving of his approval. 
A by-law does not apply in relation to a person who is not an Aboriginal or an Islander. 
Clause 12. 
Where- 
there is not in force under the Aborigines Act or Torres Strait Islanders Act in respect of a person a permit authorizing the person to reside on, or visit, a Reserve to which this Act applies, being a person who is not otherwise entitled to reside on, or visit, the Reserve; and 
the Council for the Reserve is satisfied that it would be for the benefit of the Aboriginal community or the Islander community, as the case may be, residing on the Reserve to permit the person to reside on, or visit, the Reserve. the Council may authorize the person to reside on, or visit, the Reserve. 
A person in respect of whom there is in force an authority under sub-section ( 1 ) to reside on, or visit, a Reserve shall not be prevented from entering and residing on, or visiting, as the case may be, and shall not be ejected from, the Reserve by reason that a permit authorizing him to reside on, or visit, the Reserve is not in force in respect of him under the Aborigines Act or the Torres Strait Islanders Act, and it shall not, for that reason, be unlawful for the person to be on the Reserve. 
Where- 
there is not in force under the Aborigines Act or Torres Strait Islanders Act in respect of a person a permit authorizing the person to reside on, or visit, a Reserve to which this Act applies, being a person who is not otherwise entitled to reside on, or visit, the Reserve; and 
the Council for a Community to which this Act applies, being a Community which is established on the Reserve, is satisfied that it would be for the benefit of that Community to permit the person to reside on, or visit, that part of the Reserve appropriated for the use of that Community, the Council may authorize the person to reside on, or visit, that part of the Reserve. 
A person in respect of whom there is in force an authority under sub-section (3) to reside on, or visit, a pan of a Reserve shall not be prevented from entering and residing on, or visiting, as the case may be, and shall not be ejected from, that part of the Reserve, by reason that a permit authorizing him to reside on, or visit, the Reserve is not in force in respect of him under the Aborigines Act or the Torres Strait Islanders Act, and it shall not, for that reason, be unlawful for the person to be on that part of the Reserve. 
Clause 15. 
1 ) The Commonwealth may make available to the Council for a Reserve to which this Act applies, or for a Community to which this Act applies, for the purpose of enabling the Council to perform its functions, any land acquired by or otherwise vested in the Commonwealth. 
For the purpose of making land available under subsection ( 1 ), the Commonwealth may acquire the land under the Lands Acquisition Act 1 955. 
In this section, 'land' has the same meaning as in the Lands Acquisition Act 1955. 
I move: 
In clause 7 (4), omit 'that part of'. 
In clause 7 (4), omit 'that is appropriated for the use of the Community'. 
In clause 9 (2), after 'available', insert ', with the consent of the Minister, '. 
In clause 10, omit sub-clauses (4) and (S), substitute the following sub-clauses: 
A by-law has no effect until it is received by the Minister. 
Where the Minister receives a copy of any by-laws, he shall cause a copy of the by-laws to be laid before each House of the Parliament on the first sitting day of that House after the day on which he receives a copy of those by-laws.'. 
In clause 10, omit sub-clause (9). 
Omit clause 12 and insert the following clause-  12 ( 1 ) no person not being an Aboriginal or Islander shall reside on or visit a reserve or community without the permission of the Council or by the consent of the Minister. 
no person being an Aboriginal or Islander will be prevented from residing on or visiting a reserve or community except by the decision of the Council and with the consent of the Minister. ' 
After clause 12, insert the following new clause: 12a. Where premises situated on a Reserve to which this Act applies, or on which there is established a Community to which this Act applies, are occupied by an Aboriginal or Islander, a person is not entitled, without the consent of the Aboriginal or Islander, to enter those premises unless, if the Reserve on which those premises are situated were not a Reserve, the entry would not be unlawful. '. 
In clause 15 (1), after 'available to', insert 'or vest in'. 
In clause 15 (2), after 'available', insert 'to, or vesting land in, a Council'. 
In the time remaining it is not possible to speak in any detail to all the amendments that are now before the Chair. I can say only that it has been the intention of the Opposition in moving these amendments to strengthen the Bill in order to give effect to the Government's announced intention to strengthen the rights and the prerogatives of the Aboriginal people in determining their own future. It is perfectly clear from the statements so far made by the Minister that not only does he not seriously consider these amendments but also he has not even understood them. I suppose that he is in the same position as every other honourable member. The way in which this Bill has been treated by the Government and the way in which the amendments to very important legislation now have to be put in toto without any full debate or full consideration and without any argument of the real issues, condemns the Government and its approach to this whole matter. I believe that when what has occurred is understood by the Aboriginal communities they will condemn the Government for the way in which it has limited - 
-If the honourable gentleman ever has a thought that is an original thought I will be delighted to sit down and listen to him. The fact is that he has been a party to a process, the result of which is that the Committee has not had any opportunity to consider adequately the amendments. The Opposition has not had an adequate opportunity to present its amendments. I do not ask the honourable gentlemen to understand them. They are probably too difficult and complex for him. At least I would like him to have had an opportunity to debate them. The only contribution that has been made by him and by the Minister to the other amendments indicates that, in the time that has been available to them, they have not been able to consider fully or to understand adequately our amendments, just as it has not been possible for the Committee to debate them fully. 
Having regard to the importance of this issue, it seems to me that the course that has been adopted by the Government does it no credit at all. The course that has been adopted by the Minister does him no credit at all. The only arguments that have been advanced as to why we have to curtail our rights in this matter is that the Minister does not trust Bjelke-Petersen. That is what it comes down to. 
The honourable gentleman will not be able to debate in any way that is at all effective the merits of the amendments simply because the Government itself has chosen a course which means that they cannot be considered fully by honourable members. What I am saying is that we have now put those amendments. There will be no time for me or any other member on the Opposition side to argue this case. The reason for that is that the Minister in charge of the legislation says that he does not trust  Mr Bjelke-Petersen.  We have to adopt this tactic because he does not know what the State coalition government and the gentlemen opposite who share that political philosophy will do. That is why the House has to curtail its rights and prerogatives.  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  is on record as saying that he is not worried about this legislation because of telephone conversations that have taken place between him and responsible Ministers. Basically this all comes down to a prearranged exercise designed to push this legislation through the Parliament as quickly as possible to limit any effective debate, in the hope that the Aboriginal people will not understand that the Minister was perfectly happy to make deals with Bjelke-Petersen less than a week ago.  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  says that the deals are still on. We are in the unfortunate situation that the Aboriginal people who might have come here in the hope of receiving some justice, compassion and understanding from this Government are really in a situation in which what they are being given is contained in a very limited exercise indeed. The rights of the Queensland Governmentwhich the Minister says he does not trust- to walk into their reserves and the rights of the Queensland Government to apply continued pressure upon the Aboriginal people in the reserves that are the subject of this debate can continue and will continue by virtue of the prearranged decisions that have been made by this Minister and his colleagues. All I can say is that the way in which this debate has been conducted is a shameful exercise compared with the way that parliaments ought to work. I apologise publicly to the Aboriginal people for the shameful way in which their interests have been sold down the drain as a result of the collusion of the Minister and his political colleagues in Queensland. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Hon. Ian Robinson)- In addition to the amendments previously circulated an amendment relating to clause 12 has now been circulated. The question is: 
That amendments Nos. 9 to 16 together with the amendment to clause 12, which was recently circulated, be agreed to. 
Does the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs still stand by his public statements that in allowing Vietnamese refugees to come into Australia, Australia's health and quarantine standards will be maintained? If so, is the Minister aware that, at the beginning of this week, 28 of 79 patients at the Heatherton Sanatorium were Vietnamese patients who had recently arrived here and who were being treated for tuberculosis? If the Minister is aware of these facts, can he inform the House whether Australian health standards have been maintained by proper processing of these Vietnamese? 
What interests me in this debate is that to date there has been an almost uniform view expressed by all who have spoken about the principle that the Government is endeavouring to deal with in this legislation. This Bill seems to be a prime example of a piece of legislation which, in terms of its technical drafting and some of the concepts which it has produced, has eroded in a very real and substantial way principles upon which probably all honourable members on both sides of the House agree. I support what was said by the honourable members for St George  (Mr Neil)  and Denison  (Mr Hodgman).  They said that Australia should not allow its territory to be used for the purposes of producing armed incursions into other countries. I support the view that was put by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  He suggested that the correct way of dealing with this problem is to strike at any organisation in Australia which is involved in military or paramilitary exercises. That seems to me to be the point to which this House must apply its mind. 
The honourable member for Denison and I share a common view on the problems that have arisen in Portuguese East Timor. Like the honourable member, I am opposed to what the 
Indonesians have done. It would be an odd situation if, by virtue of that common view, the honourable gentleman and myself were to say in conjunction with others who share our view that the people of Portuguese East Timor ought to have the right to govern themselves without the military incursions of the Government of Indonesia. If we were to form a para-military organisation for the purposes of assisting the people of Portuguese East Timor we would be infringing the provisions of this Bill. If the honourable gentleman and I who have some training in the law were to say that we will call this para-military organisation an organisation to support Portuguese sovereignty, by virtue of the fact that Portugal is the government that is recognised de jure we would not be in breach of this Bill. Therefore we could get our battalions and march them over the countryside. I would like to be colonel. The honourable member for Denison I suggest might like to be major. We might even borrow the more professional services of the honourable member for St George. We would need to have somebody who knows about guns and how they work. In that situation it seems to me to be a palpable absurdity for the Government of Australia by legislation to give the moral approval and, indeed, the legal sanction of this Parliament, to any group in the Australian society which wants to involve itself in paramilitary exercises for any purposes whatsoever. The tradition in this community is a tradition of social and political change by rational exchange and argument. That is difficult enough to maintain. 
I think that we have to approach this problem in terms of the history of what has occurred in our community. As the honourable member for Denison mentioned, considerable problems were created for the Australian Government by the activities of extremist Croatian groups which operated in Australia and had paramilitary organisations operating in Australia. It is a matter of public knowledge that, in pursuance of their objectives, some of their members went overseas for the purposes of involving themselves in acts against the Government of Yugoslavia. As far as I am concerned, those people who want to support the establishment of an independent state of Croatia can argue for that purpose and can produce material for that purpose, but I do not believe that any government in Australia can tolerate a situation in which a paramilitary organisation is brought into existence for the purpose of pursuing that purpose. I do not believe that such a paramilitary exercise becomes any more beneficial or any more correct if that exercise carries some sort of approval by virtue of the fact that that organisation might be involved in that exercise in support of a government which has been recognised as de jure by the Australian Government. 
I share the view which has been expressed so ably in this debate by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. What the Government of Australia and the Parliament of Australia should be saying is that under no circumstances in Australia will this Government or this Parliament tolerate the formation of groups for any purpose for the conduct of military or paramilitary exercises. As far as I am concerned, the only organisation in Australia which ought to be engaged in the stockpiling of weapons and the carrying out of military procedures is the Australian armed forces. Indeed, if we had legislation which said simply that, that would solve this problem without all the very complex exercises in interpretation which are going to arise as a result of this piece of legislation. Let me make this point because it has not been made in this debate - 
That is a very interesting and novel point. What I am suggesting- and the honourable member for Denison agrees with me- is that if we were to create a paramilitary organisation and to say that all it was doing was supporting a government which was recognised de jure, we would not infringe the provisions of this legislation. I believe that that is intrinsically wrong. I believe that what honourable members on both sides of the House want to see, and legitimately so, is a situation in which we can say that whatever the problems, whatever view we in this society take- and we are a multicultural society- and whatever else occurs in Australian society, we will not allow a situation to occur where we have the formation of paramilitary or military groups for any purpose whatsoever. That is the line which ought to be drawn and which ought to be stated. 
In support of that view I am bound to say that my attitude towards this matter has been coloured by my background and experience. Apart from not sharing the views of those people who supported the Croatian Liberation Movement, I as a local member in another parliament saw the tremendous problems which were created in the Yugoslav community by the existence of paramilitary organisations. It is perfectly legitimate for there to be differences between members of the Yugoslav community, as there are differences between members of the Australian community. But the minute any group within any ethnic community in Australia sees the operation of paramilitary organisations as a means to pursue its political objectives by force, I claim that there is no way that that development does not reach over into our own community. 
For a period of, I suppose, just 10 to 15 years, members of the Yugoslav community who were going about their normal business and their normal social function to celebrate the National Day of Yugoslavia would be subjected to the most severe outrages. In my electorate a seven year old boy had half his hand blown off by a pencil bomb which was left by people who were in pursuit of a political objective. It has been a continual exercise for bombs to be planted and for the Yugoslav Embassy to be under constant threat. Only six months ago the front window of the Yugoslav Airlines office was blown out. 
I am not drawing a broad line on that matter. What I say is that the minute groups in Australian society have paramilitary organisations and believe it is completely legitimate to pursue their objectives not merely overseas by military exercises, that development extends into our own community in a way which is completely contrary to the traditions and practices of the Australian people. I believe that this Parliament must take a very hard line on that aspect and say that the traditions of the Australian people are traditions which mean that people can argue freely according to their conscience for any political position they like but that there is no way that this Parliament is going to subscribe or give sanction to the operations of organisations along military lines. I believe that that is the line which ought to be drawn. If we state that principle as simply and as clearly as that in this legislation, we will achieve the objectives which I believe are almost the common objectives of all members of this House. 
Other problems are raised in this Bill. Again, I do not want to conjure up theoretical positions which could arise. I believe that when we look at this legislation we ought to look at it in the context of the background and traditions of our own experience. Clause 9 ( 1 ) of the Bill states: 
A person shall not, in Australia- 
) do any other act or thing for the purpose of facilitating or promoting the recruitment of persons to serve in any capacity in or with such an armed force. 
That relates to the recruitment of people for service overseas. That provision might sound all right, but Australia has never really had a tradition whereby the enrolment of mercenaries was a problem. That is also an historical fact. I do not believe that I share the view of the honourable member for St George on that matter. But we have had a situation in Australia whereby virtually hundreds of young Australians, by virtue of a deep political and religious conviction, could have been caught within that provision and therefore could have been subjected to a penalty of $ 10,000 or imprisonment for five years. 
I shall simply relate to the honourable member for Phillip the situation which arose during the period of the Yom Kippur war. There are many members of the Jewish faith in my electorate. Let me make it perfectly clear that they are all Austraiian citizens and are all law abiding citizens with a commitment to this community and this country. But also, as a part of their religious belief and indeed as a deeply held political view, the existence of the state of Israel was something which was completely relevant to their entire faith. When they saw in the early days of that war that the whole existence of the state of Israel was under threat and in jeopardy, one had only to turn on one's television set to see them lining up and publicly saying what they were doing. They were signing enrolment forms to join the armed forces of the state of Israel. That is what occurred. If that situation were to occur again tomorrow, those same young people would do exactly the same. I support them in their view. But what concerns me is that that very act - 
I am sorry, let me read to the honourable gentleman - 
I am sorry. I can only say to the honourable gentleman that if he takes that view he has not looked at the terms of the legislation. This is my objection to it. I suggest that the honourable member look at clause 9. Subclause (1) states: 
A person shall not, in Australia- 
recruit another person to serve in any capacity in or with an armed force in a foreign country, whether the armed force forms part of the armed forces of the government of that foreign country or otherwise . . . 
No, not at all. Sub-clause ( 1 ) continues: 
publish an advertisement for the purpose of recruiting persons to serve in any capacity in or with such an armed force . . . 
I ask the honourable member to listen to subclause (d) which is the usual dragnet provision. It states:  do any other act or thing for the purpose of facilitating or promoting the recruitment of persons to serve in any capacity in or with such an armed force. 
There can be no doubt that the activities in my community during the period of the Yom Kippur war were such that all those young people who were involved publicly and openly as Australian citizens in signing forms on television, making it perfectly clear that they were recruiting for the armed forces of Israel, would have come within that provision. 
There was a situation in which a war arose in a matter of days. The agony of these young people was that they could see the state of Israel being destroyed before their very eyes. They were not making any apology for what they were doing. They were not saying behind anybody's back that because of some legislation- this legislation did not exist then- we were really just going over to Israel to sit in the sun and lie on the beach at Tel Aviv. They were saying: 'Look, the state of Israel is under threat. We are volunteering. We wish to join the army in Israel'. Their leaders were making no secret about it. 
All I can say to the honourable gentleman is that he ought to look at the Bill. 
It was recruitment here. The point is that it was recruitment here. I am dealing with an historic situation which would be covered by this legislation. Those people could have been prosecuted if the Government had so chosen. It is all very well to say that the Minister would not prosecute. If the Minister would not prosecute, why do we have to give him this power? 
It is a rare situation in which a person can be subject to a fine of $10,000 or imprisonment for five years. It is not a provision that ought to be taken lightly. It is not something that should be written off in terms of the political view of the Minister of the day. This Government puts in legislation a clause by which the Government states: 'We regard the offence so seriously that this is the penalty'. Really if the Minister has another political view he can say that it is really all rot. That is a very interesting exercise, too. 
Let me go back to that historic situation. All the nations that were involved in the state of armed conflict were nations which had friendly relations with Australia. The governments were recognised by Australia. The previous Liberal Government, the Whitlam Labor Government and this Government have tried to adopt an even-handed stance in respect of the situation in the Middle East. Because there are in Australia members of the Lebanese community and members of the Arab community they can say to the Minister: 'Look, you cannot tolerate that sort of thing; it is a breach of the law'. Will the Minister enforce the law or will he make an exemption? 
I believe that the general level of recruitment of mercenaries in Australia is really an academic exercise. It is something which in my view should not take up much of the time of this House, but given the multicultural and ethnic background of Australia and given the problems that arise in the international arena, it is not unlikely that Australian citizens with ethnic backgrounds will find themselves in situations where they will want, not because of money but by virtue of deep social and political convictions which go back to the land of their origin, to involve themselves in the armed forces of that country. It would be a fairly rare occasion, but it is not one that the Government can by this legislation deal with effectively. 
I believe- I support the views of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition- that the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  ought to take this Bill away and have another think about it. If he were to bring back legislation which simply proscribed in Australia that which I believe is offensive to all of us- the formation and operation of paramilitary or military groups for any purpose- I believe the legislation would go through this House in five minutes. I think the question of mercenaries is a side issue and something about which we should not be getting excited. There are enough problems facing this nation without producing legislation of this sort. The original concept, I think, essentially was good, but the drafting of this legislation will create more problems for future Attorneys-General than the Bill purports to solve. 
I have read it very well. I am sorry that the honourable member has just come into the chamber, because he might have learned something if he had been here earlier. I simply say that the Attorney-General ought to take away this legislation. Let us deal with the issue which concerns us all. Let us not create legislation which by its very nature will become impossible to enforce and will create more problems for the Attorney-General of the day because of its provisions, which, given some of the situations which historically have arisen in Australia, are difficult and complex enough to be dealt with by the government of the day but which certainly will not be solved in any way at all by this legislation. 
I rejoin the debate to support the view so succinctly put by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  and to reiterate that the Minister for Home Affairs and Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  is really stretching the truth somewhat when he says that this Bill is a BUI against terrorism and that it ought to be supported. That statement is not completely accurate. The problem with clause 6 of the Bill has been pointed out by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  who was supported by the honourable member for St George. In fact the Bill proscribes activities which I think none of us would want to see occur anywhere in respect of those countries which have a de jure recognition by the Government of Australia. One does not have to be an expert in foreign policy to know that often the question of recognition of a country is not a simple exercise in a de jure or de facto situation. If what the Parliament is about and what the Government is about is saying that what we are doing is proscribing a terrorist activity, ipso facto, that action applies to terrorist activities in all countries. The position is as simple as that. If that is what the Minister was saying the Government seeks to do, this Bill does not do it. Under clause 6, if a person enters a foreign country with an intention to engage in a hostile activity against the government of that country, that is proscribed by this BUI if the particular government is one which enjoys de jure recognition by the Government of Australia. But if one wants to go into a foreign country that is not in that situation and to engage in the vilest forms of terrorist activity, the person is not caught by the provisions of this BUI. 
Tonight I am being reasonable. That is the legally correct situation. I admit that the Minister was trying to do his best in the chamber tonight with what is not a very good brief. He was saying really that this is a Bill to deal with terrorism. It is not good enough for him to imply that if honourable members make the very legitimate, proper and sound legal criticisms that have been made by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  the honourable member for St George, the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones),  the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and even myself- they were points which should have been taken by any lawyer- we are really not being responsible when it comes to dealing with terrorism. The suggestion made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition which really invites the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  to take this Bill away and have another go at it could produce a situation which would solve all the problems which we have internally. At the same time, if we want to have a BUI which breaks new ground internationally in dealing with terrorist activities, I believe that would be excellent and that it would be passed through this House very quickly. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 8 agreed to. 
Clause 9. 
If the Minister has, by instrument signed by him and published in the  Gazette,  declared that it is in the interests of the defence or international relations of Australia to permit the recruitment in Australia, either generally or in particular circumstances, of persons to serve in or with a specified armed force, or to serve in or with a specified armed force in a particular capacity, sub-section ( 1 ) does not apply, or does not apply in those circumstances, as the case may be, to or in relation to recruitment to serve, or the publication of an advertisement containing information with respect to service, in or with that armed force, or in or with that armed force in that capacity, as the case may be. 
Having raised the point originally myself, I reendorse the point made by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman).  However, it was not dealt with by the Minister for Home Affairs and Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  who entered this debate in relation to the provisions of clause 9 ( 1 ) (d). Again, I ask the Committee to look at the width of that dragnet sub-clause. It states:  do any other act or thing for the purpose of facilitating or promoting the recruitment of persons to serve in any capacity in or with such an armed force. 
I referred the Committee to an historical situation. It was a matter of public knowledge which arose, certainly in Sydney and Melbourne and I suppose in other communities, where there are substantial numbers of people belonging to the Jewish community. During the Yom Kippur war young Austraiian citizens who were members of the Jewish faith, publicly and openly- they were encouraged to do so by people who were responsible for organising it- virtually were enlisting in the Israeli Army in droves. This was shown on television programs. Young people, who were in all respects very fine Australian citizens, were saying as a matter of fundamental political commitment: 'We have to go to Israel because this state which is so important to us is under threat'. That was a matter of public knowledge. As the honourable member for Denison said, if he had been asked at that stage and if I had been asked at that stage to do so, I would have supported this move publicly. I would have supported that action. Under this clause, that would constitute doing:   . . any other act or thing for the purpose of facilitating or promoting the recruitment of persons to serve in any capacity in or with such an armed force; 
If I do that, I am likely to be fined $10,000 or imprisoned for 5 years. Having referred the Committee to an historic incident, I say that I believe that a similar situation could arise again. The Attorney-General of the day, who would have the responsibility of enforcing this legislation, could say: 'Look, we did not really mean it. Although the law is there I do not intend to do anything about it.' Having regard to the fact that we are a multicultural community, what will he do when members of the Arab or Lebanese community say: 'There is the law. You cannot let that occur in the community'. Let us not put on the statute books laws which endorse this sort of principle and which, at best, make for bad laws and, at worst, make for laws which will give Attorneys-General of the future very real problems of enforcement. I really think there ought to be a second look at the Bill, and I endorse the view of the honourable member for Denison. 
-I desire to give notice that on the next day of sitting I will move: 
That the Prime Minister and the former Treasurer, the present Minister for Industry and Commerce, no longer possess the confidence of this House for their failure to preserve the integrity of ministerial office following the private dealings of the former Treasurer and the failure of the Prime Minister to require full disclosure of these matters to the House. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Melbourne Ports moving General Business Notice No. 2 standing in his name. 
In addressing the House on the need to bring forward General Business Notice No. 2, 1 refer you,  Mr Speaker,  to the nature of that motion. It is essentially a no confidence motion directed towards the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the former Treasurer and present Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  and concerns their failure to maintain the integrity of ministerial office. The Parliament has been treated virtually since the Parliament first met to a series of questions on this subject which on all occasions have been evaded by both the Prime Minister and the former Treasurer. 
A question dealing with ministerial integrity goes to the whole function, capacity and integrity of the Parliament. One cannot attack the integrity of a Minister without attacking and putting at issue the integrity of the Cabinet itself. Once that issue is raised, under the Westminster system of government the matter ought to take precedence over every other matter. That is a long established principle of the Westminster system of government. The matter not only should take precedence but also should be resolved by vote. We should not allow a situation to exist in which a notice of motion couched in such terms goes on to the Notice Paper, stays on the Notice Paper and is virtually ignored by the government of the day. For those reasons, I believe that the House ought to adopt the motion I have moved. I do not believe that we can allow issues which are relevant to this House to be ignored.  Mr Speaker,  I believe that from your knowledge of the traditions and practices of the Parliament, you will agree that the question of the integrity of ministerial office in the final analysis is a matter for decision and positive vote by this House. It is not a matter - 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the honourable member be not further heard. 
-In speaking in favour of the amendment, I suggest that this is an opportunity for all honourable members to look back with the advantage of hindsight. I was involved in discussions which took place on an earlier occasion when the Australian Industry Development Corporation granted funds to the Co-operative Farmers and Graziers Direct Meat Supply Ltd to enable that co-operative to participate in the management and running of the Ballarat and Bendigo abattoirs. It ought to be pointed out that that came about as a result of representations, in which I was also involved, to the Federal Government at that time when those abattoirs were faced with closure and virtually hundreds of employers in the Bendigo and Ballarat regions who had a skill and a capacity in the meat industry had no alternative viable forms of employment. The reason the Co-operative Farmers and Graziers was involved in this situation was the very high reputation that  Mr Smart,  the principal leading light in the Co-operative at that stage, enjoyed with the AIDC. 
What subsequently occurred is a matter of regret to everybody. Funds which were granted to the Co-operative Farmers and Graziers for the purpose of providing it with fiscal liquidity- running any sort of meat works is a fairly seasonal occupation and is not always easy in regional areas- were then borrowed under circumstances which I think demand real investigation by the Victorian Government. Undoubtedly the shareholders of the Co-operative Farmers and Graziers were taken for a ride in respect of some of the activities that took place then. Funds which were made available through the AIDC, with the best intentions and with the approval of all honourable members in this House to enable two regional meatworks to continue to operate, eventually found their way into the hands of a private operator, and I suppose that the only connection they had with the meat trade, in the way in which they were eventually used, was that they were related to pornographic material. We should learn from that. It is not a light undertaking when the Commonwealth gives a guarantee. Virtually we are giving the guarantee of the taxpayers of Australia to this venture which, with the best will in the world, will start off with not inconsiderable financial problems. Therefore it is not unreasonable to suggest that what is proposed in the amendment which has been moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  should be a condition attached to the guarantee. It would provide no hardship in the actual operation of the cooperative. 
I point out that if that simple precaution had been taken in the past Co-operative Farmers and Graziers Direct Meat Supply Ltd may not be in the situation in which it now finds itself. Therefore, I hope that this Bill has a speedy passage. I hope the amendments proposed commend themselves to the Treasurer  (Mr Howard).  I believe it is tremendously important, for reasons that have been advanced from both sides of the chamber, that the Co-operative be placed in a situation in which it is able to continue in the market-place. It is also important that two important regional meat works in Victoria, at Bendigo and Ballarat, ought to be able to operate in the market-place independent of a company like Protean (Holdings) Ltd which operates an abattoir in my electorate and which is involved in litigation about payment of rent to the Richmond City Council. 
No, it is a very modern abattoir but there has been a long standing dispute about the amount of rental that ought to be paid. I hope that the Parliament on this occasion will not merely give its moral support to the continuation of the Co-operative Farmers and Graziers Direct Meat Supply Ltd and not merely give the guarantees that are necessary; I hope also that we will act as prudent businessmen and see that the mistakes that have occurred in the past will not occur again in the future. I hope the Commonwealth will provide the sort of business capacity and expertise which can be made available to see that the guarantee being given on this occasion- I believe properly given- at least is backed up with business acumen and business capacity. If such expertise had been present on the last occasion, as I pointed out, it might well have meant that the Co-operative, instead of being in the situation in which it finds itself today, would have been a viable and prosperous undertaking. 
I want to raise a matter that I believe is of considerable importance to the House. It goes to what I regard as the circumstances which constitute a serious diminution in the processes of the Westminster tradition as practiced not merely in this Parliament but in all parliaments which follow this tradition. I refer to a circumstance in which notice of motion is given or any honourable member desires to move a motion which constitutes a no confidence motion in any Minister of the Crown. It is the established procedure in all parliaments operating under the Westminster system that such a matter can be called on immediately at the whim of the Government. But certainly as a matter of practice it is not called on in that way by arrangement; it normally is called on as a matter of urgency usually on the next day of sitting. That is a well established practice. It is a well established procedure which operates in all parliaments. 
This is a matter of concern because 1 have discussed it with honourable members who have been in this place for much longer than I have. However, none of them can recall a situation in which a motion which is virtually a motion of no confidence in the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and a former Treasurer couched clearly in terms of no confidence is not merely ignored by the government of the day, but the government of the day, which has the numbers, in my view improperly uses those numbers to prevent any debate at all. That, on any view, constitutes a serious erosion of the prerogatives of this Parliament. 
I simply want to say that a motion cast in those terms in my view cannot be moved lightly or wantonly by any member of this House. It is a serious matter, it has to be dealt with seriously and it ought to be resolved by vote of the House. I have asked myself why this Government using its numbers in this House wants to act in that way, a way without any precedent at all. But the situation is much more serious than that. If we look at what has happened we will see that the former Treasurer resigned under circumstances that were quite spectacular. He undertook to the people of Australia that he would as soon as possible make a full public statement in respect of the matter and the place where that statement ought to be made is here in this Parliament. But what has occurred? The statement was made to the Press. The Prime Minister says he is satisfied with that and from that day there has been no statement to this Parliament. Questions on this issue asked from this side of the House have not been answered. 
I want to say, having looked very closely at the statement and comparing what the former Treasurer says to the Press with the facts as I believe them to be from my observations, that of course there is no penalty attaching to any Minister of the Crown who wants to say anything he likes to the Press, who wants to lie to the Press. But there is very considerable penalty attaching to any Minister of the Crown once he stands up in this Parliament and gives an explanation and is bound by the due processes of that Parliament. This is what should happen if this Government has not thrown out the door the principle that Ministers should tell the truth and give a full and frank account. That has not occurred. 
It is one thing for the Prime Minister and the former Treasurer to run scared on this issue. It is another thing completely that they use their numbers  to  adopt procedures which are a disgrace to this Parliament. If such procedures were adopted by any local council an inquiry would be instigated by the appropriate State Minister for 
Local Government. It is one thing for the government of the day to have the numbers. But in my view it is a matter of the deepest concern if that government uses its numbers to prevent a debate where it is frightened that the facts will emerge. The Government is frightened that the Prime Minister and the former Treasurer will be exposed for statements they have made to the Press which are mendacious and cannot stand the light of examination. That is bad enough. But their use of numbers to prevent any debate at all in this Parliament involves a gross abuse of the forms and procedures of this House. I protest it and all members of the Opposition protest it. 
-I move: 
That the Prime Minister and the  former  Treasurer, the present Minister for Industry and Commerce, no longer possess the confidence of this House, for their failure to preserve the integrity of ministerial office, following the private business dealings of the former Treasurer, and the failure of the Prime Minister to require full disclosure of these matters to the House. 
The issue raised in the motion is clear and simple. It asserts that the private business transactions of the former Treasurer and present Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  were transactions which this House is entitled to assume were carried out with the knowledge and the approval of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  We are entitled to that view as a result of the letter that was sent by the then Treasurer to the Prime Minister on the occasion of his resignation when he said: 
I have at no time withheld from you the nature of my pecuniary interests. It has at all times been open to you to seek further information from me or to let me know that my statement of affairs was not consistent in your view with my ministerial duties. 
So clearly, on the former Treasurer's own statement, the Prime Minister knew or ought to have known or was in fact fully informed by the former Treasurer of the nature of that right honourable gentleman's business transactions and dealings. 
During the course of the election campaign what was promised by the former Treasurer and what was indicated to the people of Australia was that on the first available opportunity outside the heat of an election campaign a full statement on this matter, a full and detailed account, would be given to the people and by presumption to the Parliament. I ask the House to take careful note of the procedures which have been adopted in this case because those procedures in my view constitute a grave threat to the whole concept of parliamentary supremacy over the question of ministerial integrity. There has not been a single document tabled either by the Prime Minister or by the former Treasurer which would enable this House to make any independent assessment on its own behalf of the truth and the veracity of statements made to the Press by the former Treasurer. I would have hoped the course that would have commended itself to the former Treasurer and the Prime Minister, the honourable and proper course, would have been that on the first available opportunity in this House a statement would have been made and all the documents relevant to this matter, whether they were accountants' opinions or Queens Counsel's opinions, would have been laid on the table and then the matter could have received the independent and proper scrutiny of the House. 
If, as has been suggested, the former Treasurer is innocent of any improper business transaction or his ministerial integrity is not in question the matter could have been resolved then and there. Over a period of weeks both the Minister for Industry and Commerce and the Prime Minister have virtually said to the House: 'We have made our own independent assessment, we have had judgments made by accountants, solicitors and a Queen's Counsel and we accept what has been said'. What is more, they say that this House is bound to accept that, and that is the end of the matter. If any member of this House wanted to examine the propriety of this matter all that was available was a very carefully sanitised Press report put out by the Minister for Industry and Commerce which gave his account. It is to that statement that I am bound to turn in terms of asking the House to consider both its accuracy and its veracity. 
The statement that was issued on behalf of the Treasurer, as he then was, on 15 December dealt with about three separate matters. The statement indicated that the former Treasurer had been involved in two private companies, that he was a director of those companies but that he had resigned on being appointed to Cabinet. It is an interesting statement because the implication was that the former Treasurer in the best traditions of Westminster resigned from the two positions as soon as he was appointed to Cabinet. Of course, if one looks at the matter accurately one can see that nothing of the sort happened. The Minister may have resigned when he was appointed to the Treasury portfolio but he continued to hold positions as consultant in two companies- in 1969 to 1971 while he was Minister for Immigration and the Minister Assisting the Treasurer and in 1971 while he was the Minister for Labour and National Service. I just pose to the House the question: If it is good enough for a Minister to be in receipt of a sum of $4,800 as a consultant's fee while a Minister of the Crown, is that a standard which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  now says can apply to the present Minister for Immigration  (Mr MacKellar)  or to the present Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)?  In the very opening lines of the former Treasurer's statement, clearly there was a suggestion which was calculated to mislead. 
Given the time available, I want to move very quickly to the substantial allegation which was made against the former Treasurer and which, on the insistence of the Prime Minister, led to his resignation. I am dealing with the land purchases at Stumpy Gully. On any objective analysis, this sanitised version by the former Treasurer - 
-I also claim to have been misrepresented. I seek leave to make a personal explanation in relation to the same article. 

 - Mr Speaker, I draw your attention to the article, which seems to me to constitute a grave misrepresentation of the proceedings of this House. The article not only produces a completely distorted account of what occurred in the debate involving me and the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  but also refers to the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  who was not present in the House, who did not take part in the debate and who was not the subject of any reference. To that extent the article is a gross distortion of the proceedings of the House. With respect to my own misrepresentation the article states: 
Government members said  Mr Holding  was an ALP bargain'- 
Whatever that may mean- and a close personal associate of  Mr Graham  Hill, who was indicted by the Victorian land inquiry for having 'committed an offence ' in dealings with Lensworth Finance. 
The only reference to that matter at any stage in the proceedings of the House was contained in a point of order raised by the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier),  who said: 
The honourable member for Melbourne Pons is talking about land deals somewhere, ls he going to tell us about land deals of Hill estates, of which he is a director? 
You,  Mr Speaker,  ruled the honourable member out of order, and I did not deal with the interjection by virtue of your ruling. I respond by saying that I have no knowledge of the matters to which the honourable member for Bendigo referred, I have no knowledge of Hill estates, and I am certainly not a director of any such body. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
I should be. Unfortunately last night while I was absent from the House a matter was raised by the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  which virtually constituted a grave personal attack on myself in terms of the role I play in this Parliament. I deplore the terms that were used by the honourable member. Basically what the honourable member for McMillan said was that I had somehow demeaned the standards of this House by moving a censure motion in respect of the personal financial involvements of the former Treasurer. Let me say to this House that in moving that motion I acted completely within the forms and procedures of this Parliament on a matter of grave public concern, and all of the facts that I presented to the House were put on the basis that they were facts. It was a matter that could have been answered by the former Treasurer. He chose not to answer it, but the matter was dealt with by the House. 
As far as I was concerned, by virtue of my past involvement in events in my State, I was given that duty by the Opposition, and I discharged it. 
To that extent, the way in which the matter was raised was not even personal. What concerns me is that the honourable member for McMillan then chose by way of an answer to that allegation, knowing that I was absent from the House, making no attempt to communicate with me and without making any specific charges, simply to make charges by way of innuendo and to raise question. 
If the honourable gentleman looks at  Hansard,  he will find that every statement I made in that debate was a matter of fact and can be proved to be a matter of fact. What I raised related to a function that was relevant to the functions performed in a public capacity by the former Treasurer. I have been in parliamentary institutions and have dealt with more senior members of the Liberal Party than the honourable member who interjected. 
I think it is important to say this. In another Parliament of which I was a member for 15 years, not once in the political cut and thrust of debate was a man's family- his children or his wife- ever brought into a debate. That is a fact. I deplore one of the developments that seems to be taking place in this community. Unfortunately it occurs to members on both sides of the House. If a son of a member of Parliament breaks a traffic law or is involved in an offence it becomes a headline. To that extent the media is involved in a double standard. I would have thought that honourable members would have understood that. Therefore I do not mind what the honourable member for McMillan wants to say about me, although all of it was inaccurate. 
I deplore the fact that he chose the venue of this House and its privileges to make an attack upon my former wife. I regard that as a matter of complete contempt, and I would say to the honourable member that he at least owes that lady an apology. If he does not want to do that, let him have the courage to make the allegation outside the Parliament where he can have an opportunity to defend his allegation. As he lacked the courage to inform me that he would operate in the politically snide way in which he did in the House last night, I do not think he will avail himself of that opportunity. 
I would like to move to the substances of the general methods by which the honourable member operated last night. He raised a whole series of questions. He did not make one allegation. I say very simply in the time available to me that at no stage have I ever personally been involved in a situation in which I have made one penny from land development. I challenge the honourable member, if he believes he has any evidence, not to rely on imputation or raising questions, but either to use the forms of this House or to have the courage to make the statements outside the House. I put the position as simply as that. I regard the statements of the honourable gentleman as doing him no credit and as doing this House no credit. It is sad that a man can spend 17 years in Parliament dealing with probably some of the best representatives of the Liberal Party of Australia and he has to come to the national Parliament in order to find this sort of attack being made not upon himself but upon a member of his family. 
Briefly, I endorse the statements by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  It is a matter of concern that, given the claims, the demands, and the legitimate aspirations of the Aboriginal people for land rights, the Parliament should adopt a position in which it gives with one hand and tends to take away with the other. 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-It seems to me that this is an occasion on which it would be appropriate for the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  to inform honourable members of the Government's position, which seems to have changed since this Bill was introduced as a result of the reactions of the Premiers of the various States as communicated to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I believe that it would not be in the interests of this Committee if we were to proceed through the Committee stage of the Bill without being provided with a full statement of the Government's intentions as to the way in which the Bill will operate. Whilst I do not share the view of the Premier of Victoria in regard to the mining of uranium, I certainly share his view that there exists a body of knowledge and experience, not merely in the State of Victoria but indeed in many States of the Commonwealth, on the whole question of open-cut mining. I doubt whether there would be available to this Minister anywhere within the Public Service knowledge of industrial safety measures in relation to opencut mining techniques which would surpass the knowledge which exists in Victoria, in which State open-cut mining has been operating very successfully for many years. 
I join issue with the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  in terms of his view that it is an appropriate form of consultation for the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to make a general statement in the House, then for legislation of this sort to be introduced in the way in which it has been introduced, with copies being supplied for the States, and then for the Government to move from that position. What is implicit in the Minister's position is that that constitutes proper consultation with the States. The fact is that it is an arbitrary, centralist view which I think is an unacceptable standard for this Parliament. It is certainly unacceptable to those who have any knowledge or background of the way in which State governments operate. 
I believe that when the Premier of Victoria said: 'Unfortunately the Bill in question was presented to the States as a virtual fait accompli without any recourse to the State Minister nominated for that purpose' he was being completely accurate. I ask the Minister to think about the implications of what is taking place. Let us deal with it in two areas. We are talking about a code of safety. The fact is that every State in Australia has more experience, administratively, in the enforcement of the law, and in the enforcement of industrial codes, than the Commonwealth. 
The mere fact that the process might be new does not matter, uranium is obtained by a process of open-cut mining. The State of Victoria knows a great deal more than the Commonwealth about the processes and the technology of open-cut mining. That happens to be the result of experiences in developing huge brown coal deposits. It also happens to be a fact that in my own State, whatever its imperfections, there is environment protection legislation on the statute book that goes further than anything the Government has contemplated in this legislation, and indeed further than any environmental Commonwealth statute. Environmental protection codes operate in Victoria, and there is an administrative structure in that State that is tremendously well developed. 
I abhor the whole approach of the Government on this matter. First of all, the procedure of passing legislation and then effecting substantive changes in the law by virtue of regulations that are promulgated by the Governor-General, as a process, is something that has to be watched continually by the Parliament. The definitions clause in this Bill gives the Government enormous power in terms of the regulation-making provisions. Let us consider just one area that has been a matter of considerable political controversy in the uranium debate, and I refer to the disposal of nuclear waste. Many of us on this side of the chamber believe that uranium should be left in the ground. We do not feel that the technology has been developed to a stage where we can safely dispose of nuclear waste. Yet within the definitions clause of this Bill there are provisions that enable the Commonwealth to make Australia a nuclear waste dumping ground. There are people in Australia who have publicly touted that view as an inducement to selling uranium overseas. 

 Mr HOLDING That is what has been said. 
I am arguing that it should never come into effect,  Mr Chairman,  and I am addressing you on that point. On the question of the disposal of nuclear waste, it is open to the Government of the day to reach - 
It is a pity that Government back bench members do not even read their own legislation. If the honourable member looked at the definition of 'nuclear activities' he would see that it refers to possession, acquisition, abandonment or disposal of any prescribed substance. If he then looked at the definition of 'prescribed substance', if he could understand it, he would see that it includes nuclear waste. I am sorry to have to give the honourable gentleman a lecture about his own legislation. What I am saying is that if the Government of Australia were to make such a decision, than it ought to be a matter of considerable concern, a matter that is very much subject to approval by way of legislation in this Parliament. What we are being asked to approve in this legislation is a concept whereby the Government can initiate nuclear dumping in Australia by way of regulation. I for one fear that. I for one believe that the Minister should reconsider the legislation. I believe that this legislation, in terms of clause 2, should never receive the royal assent. 
Let us consider the terms in clauses 7 and 8 that the Minister regards as providing the basis for proper consultation. What sort of effective consultation is it when this Minister produces a code that is sent to the Minister in the State of 
Victoria? The Commonwealth Minister does not have to consult because the mere passage of that code to a State Minister provides an opportunity to consult, according to the terms of the legislation. If the Commonwealth Minister says: 'I cannot be bothered talking to these State fellows; they bore me stiff', then all he has to say is that the mere passage of that code to the relevant State Minister has provided the opportunity to consult. On that basis, after the passage of time, the Commonwealth can say: 'We occupy the field and our code becomes the code. ' No State government anywhere in Australia, be it a Liberal Government or a Labor Government, is going to accept that sort of heavy-handed approach from any Commonwealth government, be it Liberal or Labor. No State government, having regard to its own background knowledge and experience in the handling of industrial affairs and industrial and environmental legislation, where some States are well ahead of the Commonwealth, should be prepared to accept that sort of treatment. 
I believe that the proper course is not merely that this Bill should not receive royal assent but that, in good faith, the Minister should say to the States: 'We are not going to proceed with this legislation. ' There is nothing to stop the Minister from entering into consultations tomorrow. He could have entered into consultations months ago. There could have been an exchange of views. One State government- South Australiahas taken the view, I believe properly, that it is not going to mine uranium in its State because it is not satisfied that proper safeguards have been made at the international level. Equally, it is not satisfied in regard to the disposal of nuclear waste. The honourable member for Mitchell may laugh, but that is the viewpoint of a significant section of this community. If it is the viewpoint of a State government, it is a legitimate viewpoint. It ought to be open to the Minister to say: 'I will persuade them that that is not the situation because I will make available to them all the material that is open to me and to the Commonwealth Government.' Of course, under this legislation the Commonwealth Minister does not have to get involved in that exercise. He does not have to convince a State government that needs to be convinced about the incipient dangers involved in the whole process of nuclear energy, a State government that does not want to become involved in the proliferation of nuclear weapons, a State government that is not convinced by whatever evidence this Government says it has in respect of waste disposal. 
It is perfectly legitimate in a federal system of government for the Commonwealth Government to make available to a State government any relevant material in its possession to endeavour to persuade that government. Under this legislation, of course, that process is not necessary. The Commonwealth Government will deliver to the States a code and tell them that that is it, take it or leave it. The delivery at a certain point of time means that if the States have not communicated with the Commonwealth Government within a period of six months then they have had the opportunity to consult, and the Commonwealth will occupy the field. Just as that process is unacceptable to the Liberal Premier of Victoria and to almost every other State Premier, it ought to be thoroughly unacceptable to all those members of this Parliament, particularly the so-called small '1' liberals, who continually harp about State rights, but when it comes to a situation of allowing this Minister and this Government to override those rights in a very real way they are not prepared to speak on behalf of the States. 
I rise briefly to support the view which has been put forward by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  This is a slovenly and lazy way for any Government to proceed. With respect, it almost constitutes an abuse of the forms of the Parliament. The Government is saying to the Parliament: 'We are bringing in legislation. We believe it is excellent legislation'. In the second reading speech of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  we were told how necessary it was that this legislation be enacted but we are told now that we will have only part of the legislation; the rest is to be delayed. It is important, having regard to the proper processes of this Parliament, that Ministers get their Bills right and that governments bring legislation before this House in proper form. The fact of the matter is that the reason the Government is embarrassed and the Minister is embarrassed and the reason we have to adopt this very odd form of legislation, only part of which we are told will have some effect, is because of the intentions of the Government in the first place. The overall, overweening intention of the Government was, of course, to get the whole process of uranium mining under way in Australia. As far as the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was concerned there was no room for further debate or argument anywhere in Australian society about the whole question of uranium mining. 
I come back to the point I was making. I and many hundreds of thousands of Australians take the view that the present state of our technology is such that the healthiest thing we could do, not merely for the people of Australia but for the people of the world, is to leave uranium in the ground. 
I am perfectly happy to tell the Russians that. I believe the position of the Soviet Union on this matter is completely irresponsible. I believe the attitude of the French in conducting nuclear tests in the Pacific was completely irresponsible. I believe that for this Government to proceed with this son of sloppy legislation in spite of the fact that a very large component of the Australian community is gravely concerned about the whole question of uranium mining is, in itself, quite reprehensible. It was this Government which was so determined to get the whole process of uranium mining started. It was in such a hurry to do that, it was not prepared to have discussions with the States on any of these issues. The grave issues that are involved have been referred to already by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition and the member conducting the carriage of this Bill on behalf of the Opposition. The single fact remains that the Government is in this mess because, as far as the Prime Minister was concerned, it was more important to yield to the demands of the mining companies than it was to have any relevant discussion. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Why did the Prime Minister choose not to make public all of the documents prepared by the former Treasurer in respect of his family interests, as well as opinions provided  by Irish, Young and Outhwaite, Mallesons and Stephen Charles, Q.C.? Is it a fact that these opinions provided by Mallesons and Stephen Charles, Q.C., were based only on documents provided to them on  Mr Lynch  's behalf? Further can the Prime Minister assure the House that, as a result of the disclosure to him of their personal interests, no Minister, while a Minister, or any company in which he is involved by way of family trusts or otherwise has been involved in speculative land deals? 
I listened with great interest to the comments by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  It seems to me that in his approach to this issue the Minister may well be creating more problems than he is solving. Whilst it is important and necessary to rationalise the work of the Federal Court of Australia and make fuller use of the resources of the Court, there are certain procedures which are more readily dealt with in the first instance by a Full Court. I refer particularly to challenges to the validity of the rules of an organisation under sections 114 and 141 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. By their very nature these cases are often lengthy, extensive and involve considerable exercises in the interpretation of rules. They never take place in the context of an academic exercise between the parties. They are usually part of a background struggle for power within an organisation. That being so, it seems to me that it really would be a far more expedient and judicious use of the experience of the Court and a saving of the time of the parties if those types of cases were dealt with right from the start by a Full Court of three. 
In the history of such cases it has not been unusual for one judge to find that particular rules are valid and two other judges to find that they are invalid. That being so, the very nature of the contest is such that from the point of view of the Minister it would be a saving in time and cost and a better use of the capacities of the Court if right from the start these cases were subject to a process under which they were dealt with by a Full Court. Proposed new section 1 18c provides that the parties or the Minister may apply at any stage of proceedings before a single judge to have the proceedings heard and determined by a Full Court. What is interesting about that is that an application by the Minister must be granted whereas the judge has a discretion as to whether to grant an application by one of the parties. In addition, the judge may of his own motion refer the proceedings to a Full Court. 
It seems to me that there is no justification for putting the Minister in a special position in respect of being able to require that that proceeding be dealt with by a Full Court. Either the judge to whom the application is made should have a discretion irrespective of whom the applicant is or the parties to the proceedings should have the same right as the Minister to require that the proceedings be dealt with by a Full Court. That is a view that I urge upon the Minister. We are dealing with a reasonably sensitive area. I do not think that the Minister has to be reminded of that. In this area it is important that the Minister, to the extent to which he seeks this type of power, should not be seen to be in a position which is significantly different from that of the other parties to the proceedings. If that principle were adopted I do not think it would involve any serious diminution of the rights of the Minister but it would put the Minister at the same level as all other parties to the proceedings. It would not put the Minister in a position which could be seen and argued to be of some advantage and whereby the Crown can by the process of intervention produce a result which is not immediately available to the other parties within the jurisdiction. The Minister would be well advised to examine that proposal because I can see difficulties arising if the Commonwealth chooses to place itself in a position where the Minister does not approach the Court with the same rights, no more and no less, as the other parties before the court. 
I share the view and the concern that have already been expressed by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  on the question of intervention. I understand the general philosophy of the Government, which says: We are dealing with powerful social institutions and the Government of the day has to give itself a right to intervene to protect the public, if necessary'. I understand the underlying philosophy behind that, but one has to deal with that philosophy in terms of the history, experience and tradition of this jurisdiction. The use of what is essentially a legal structure to solve the very complex problems of industrial relations is difficult and complex enough. Irrespective of whatever advantages this particular clause bestows, or is seen to bestow, upon the Commonwealth or any government I believe that ultimately it will produce situations which, rather than solve industrial problems, will actually increase the tension surrounding them. There may well be points of intervention for any Minister in these situations, but, as the Minister virtually conceded by implication, he sees this power of intervention almost as a power of last resort. In his elaboration of this clause he has indicated that it is a power that would be not used frequently. He concedes that point. 
I argue that the history and tradition of this jurisdiction show that the points of intervention, as and when they have taken place, have largely served to complicate the normal processes for resolving problems between parties within the jurisdiction. In many cases, the actual intervention by the Minister has simply delayed what would otherwise have been a settlement and resolution of industrial disputes. If one looks at the history of my own State, where from time to time this sort of power has been exercised by State Ministers in the industrial appeal court jurisdiction, one will find that on balance it has not really assisted in difficult industrial situations. For those reasons, I ask the Minister to consider the arguments put forward by me and the honourable member for Port Adelaide. 
-I rise to support and to enlarge upon the remarks made by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  He dealt with the matter in terms of general principles. I shall restrict my remarks to the rather specific provisions of the Bill. I shall deal with the views of the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  and also of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom),  that now these Bills have come back amended from the Senate, somehow everything will be all right. There are no problems so we can go ahead and mine uranium to the satisfaction of the Minister. Presumably as a result of some deal made by the Government with representatives of the Northern Territory, everybody will be happy. 
I assure the Minister and the honourable member for the Northern Territory that honourable members on this side of the House share the views of the honourable member for Reid. We certainly are not happy. We do not believe for one moment that a Bill which is little better than a public relations exercise and which purports to protect the environment of the Alligator Rivers Region will achieve that commendable objective. 
I point out to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, who is sitting at the table, that he had an opportunity to explain and to enlarge upon these amendments. I doubt that he understands them. I ask the Minister: What do these precious amendments that he has dropped on the Committee achieve? Let us examine them. Let us look at the original Bill. No one believes for one moment that the Bill, by creating the concept of a supervising scientist, will protect the environment. If one looks at the history of this region and at the boundaries that have been drawn, one realises that they have been drawn for one purpose only and that is to enable the Government to fulfil its objective of uranium mining. 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory can say nonsense. He talks much about the people of the Northern Territory. I remind him that there were people in the Northern Territory before the dominant group that are there now. I am speaking of the original inhabitants, the Aboriginals. I know that the honourable member is concerned about them and that he is concerned about their views, but if one looks at the original area which was being considered as being encompassed by the national park area, the Alligator Rivers Region, there is no way that one can rationalise that concept with the boundaries as they are now conceived. I do not have time to take the Committee through all the steps involved, though I should be happy to spend some time with the honourable member for the Northern Territory, and I have no doubt that he would be happy to spend some time with me. I say simply to him that if one looks at the boundaries as they have been drawn one sees that they have been drawn essentially as an exercise in compromise. The overwhelming position of the Government was what it was about with uranium mining. The Government was so concerned about that aspect that it rode completely roughshod in other aspects of this legislation over the positions of the States and even now there is not a State in the Commonwealth - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  Would the honourable member resume his seat for a minute. It is not easy for the Chair either but as I understand it the Bill deals with Supervising Scientists. The amendments moved by the Senate primarily concern the jobs that Supervising Scientists have to do. The Committee is perfectly entitled to look at whether the role of the Supervising Scientist is correct, incorrect, baloney, a public relations exercise or anything else. What I want to discourage the honourable member for doing is debating the second reading in principle. That is what he has been doing for a few minutes, as I think he will agree. 
To round off the remarks I simply want to make on this point. Just as all the States, whether Liberal, Labor, or National Party controlled, are concerned about this package, I would suggest that if the honourable member for the Northern Territory believes that by the amendments the Northern Territory will really have any effective say, rather than simply being involved in a public relations exercise, then he is somewhat naive. Let us look at the role of the supervising scientist. The Government, which is so concerned about the protection of the environment, takes the view that was put in the Fox report. It is a significant and important position. The Government would consider clearly that it was a job of considerable responsibility and would advertise throughout the world in order to get someone of eminence whose reputation both as a scientist and as one having concern for the environment is well known and publicly established. 
The Committee is talking about the Supervising Scientist. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  The Chair is rather privately delighted that the substance of the debate has returned to supervising scientists, whether it relates to salaries or otherwise. I ask the honourable member for Melbourne Ports to continue his logic into the area of the amendments. 
I am doing my best- with everybody's assistance. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- I realise that you are doing your best. 
If that is what the Government was concerned to do, it could have been done. That was not what was done. What occurred was that someone was plucked out of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. The Committee is talking about the role of the supervising scientist and the amendments deal with that. The supervising scientist was plucked out of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission. All honourable members know that the role of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, since its inception, has been to encourage the development of uranium mining. I have never met the gentleman concerned but I do not believe that the Government was genuine in its appointment of the supervising scientist, if the Government is saying that this man sees his role as protecting the environment as against the interests of the uranium miners. Perhaps I might return quite specifically and more narrowly even again to the enthusiasm shown by the honourable member for the Northern Territory who believes he has derived some great benefit from the amendments. If honourable members look at clause 33 they will see what supervising scientists have to do in terms of considering the position of the 
Northern Territory. That is what he was waxing eloquent about - 
I was probably being more charitable to the honourable member than he deserved. I could have said that he was being boring. Whichever way one looks at it, by the clause the Supervising Scientist has to 'consult with, and have regard to the advice of. That is like me having a conversation with the honourable member for the Northern Territory. Once I have had a conversation with him and consulted with him I can say that I have had regard to his views but that I think they are all nonsense. That is the great concession that the honourable member for the Northern Territory now believes has been won for the people of the Northern Territory. What nonsense. I concede that there are a couple of people who have been appointed to the supervising committee who will render a valuable service but I think if we are being honest about it we will say that what the honourable member was really concerned about was not that those persons would have any real regard for the protection of the environment but that they would have a slice of the cake, whether yellowcake or otherwise, from the profits that come from uranium mining. I doubt that they will get much of that but let not the Committee or the people of the Northern Territory be confused. They are confused if they believe that their rights have been preserved any more than have the rights of the people of Victoria, South Australia, Queensland or anywhere else. If one views the amendments as part of the total Government package, what the Government is concerned to do is to mine uranium. That is what the Government is about and it does not really care about anything. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I wish to express my concern in respect of the second amendment which has come from the Senate. If one looks at the arguments that have been advanced the only thing that can be said for the amendment is that it extends to the Northern Territory the provisions that exist in section 4 of the principal Act. I think it is time that the Committee paused and considered the actual terminology not merely of this clause but also of the section in the principal Act. I remind the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  that when the original Bill was brought into the House it was passed with less than one and a half hours debate. I understand the reasons for that. It related to the Government's anxiety to get the Bill through. 
Clause 4 is simply an extension of the original section in the 1975 Act. In 1975 the sorts of arguments that now exist in this community dealing with the preservation of Aboriginal sites and the development of areas for national parks did not loom as large in the community as they do now. I would think that all members on both sides of the chamber would say that this whole question of national parks and Aboriginal land rights will be a continual and increasing issue for this Parliament, the Government and future governments. 
If the Commonwealth is saying that we acknowledge that in the States and in the Northern Territory there is a body of knowledge and experience in respect of administration of national parks, so be it. That seems to me to be something that ought to be properly recognised by the Commonwealth. But that is not what this clause does. This clause goes to the question of the sovereignty of the Commonwealth. That is the problem. I invite the Committee to consider the seriousness of this matter. This is not an argument which I apply to the Northern Territory as such; I apply it to the clause in the Bill. The Commonwealth is virtually abrogating a very serious area of its sovereignty in respect of the States. It might well be that in a State or in the Northern Territory, the area with which this Bill deals, there is existing legislation. It might well be that there is an existing administration. 
What is important is that the Commonwealth, given the pressures which generate not merely on this Government but which will generate on future governments on the whole question of the preservation of areas of historical, archaeological or geological importance, should not by its own act exclude its own jurisdiction. Let it be understood that what is occurring in this legislation is that all any State of the Commonwealth has to do- the amendment includes the Northern Territory in this area- is to say that it has legislation. If a State knows that the Commonwealth is intending to move, to properly move, in respect of this matter all it needs to do is to pass some legislation and then say: 'Well, the Commonwealth cannot move to carry out its objectives in these areas of historical, archaeological or geological importance or in areas of significance to Aboriginals because we have passed a Bill'. There has never been such an abrogation of sovereignty. 
I have been deeply involved in the past in arguing that on not enough occasions has the Commonwealthnot merely this Government but former governments- adequately conferred with the States on a whole range of issues. Certainly, national parks is one of those areas. I make the point that it is one thing for the Commonwealth to confer and to establish joint structures pulling together the body of knowledge that undoubtedly exists in all these areas, but it is another thing entirely to protect the sovereignty of this Parliament and the sovereignty - 
All one has to do is to look at the history of the very vexed area of Aboriginal land rights. In the course of the last 3 months we saw this Government, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  adopt one position and pledge support to Aboriginal people in terms of their right to self-determination, but, after a series of not very sophisticated manoeuvres, they were forced to back down completely by one State government. I do not believe that the duty to confer and to consult with the States that is imlicit on the Commonwealth extends to producing legislation of this kind which gives any State and the Northern Territory the right virtually to exclude the operation of the Commonwealth. What the provision does is perfectly clear. 
I have to say it three times in order that people as stupid as the honourable member for Mallee will understand it. If he wants me to speak in pidgeon or even in simpler language, I would be delighted to indulge him. 
I am doubtful about the honourable gentleman's capacity to understand anything. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Mr Millar)  The honourable member will ignore interjections and proceed with the amendments. 
That is the point I want to make. I think it ought to be placed on record that for this reason there is concern on this side of the House. This provision simply extends a principle which was ill-conceived in the original Bill. It is badly drafted and I believe it will create great problems in the future. It is part and parcel of the total package of legislation that will cause very considerable problems of interpretation in the future. 
It is not a question of management. Under the amendment- I refer to the clauseland will not be acquired without the consent of the Territory if it is land dedicated or reserved under a law of the Territory. One can reserve land under a law of the Territory without having any effective management at all. At least, if the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  is going to tell the Committee the meaning of these provisions he ought to get it right. The simple fact is that he ought to know that, time and time again, legislation is passed through Parliament, huge areas are reserved and no management at all is involved. We can have an argument about the efficiency of management, but I did not join issue on that. In fact, I specifically pointed out to the Minister that there is a vast body of knowledge in all States on the management of national park areas that ought to be consulted and involved. I fully concede that, as do honourable members on this side. We do not concede- obviously the Minister does not understand what his own amendment does- what is sought in the amendment, which states that without the consent of the Territory the Commonwealth cannot acquire for the purposes of this park land that is dedicated or reserved under a law of the territory for various purposes. We are dealing with dedication or reservation. If the Minister knew anything he would know that land can be reserved and dedicated, without any administration being brought into existence. At least when the Minister is informing the Committee he should get his arguments right. 
It is no wonder that the Minister brought this Bill into the House and simply dropped it on the table and chose not to give the House any explanation at all. I do not blame him for that because if one looks at the debate on the original Bill, which every honourable member on that side of the House supported, one will see our criticism of it was that it did not involve any effective negotiation, any effective consultation, any involvement of the States at any level. That was argued in this House, and in the discussion on the Bill members of the Opposition had the support of every State Premier. Despite that, there was not a single member on the Government side of the House who was prepared to stand up and say: Of course there ought to be consultation; of course there ought to be involvement; of course the amendment proposed by the Opposition should be supported '. 
If we now look at what has occurred, we will see that there has never been a more shameful abdication of sovereignty, a more shameful abdication of their own position, than what is revealed by the amendments that now come before the House with the approval of the Ministerthe very Minister who told the House during the course of the debate on the Bill that what was important was to get the Bill through. In the note these provisions were supported by honourable members on that side of the House to a man. Suddenly not only do they have to be changed; if we look at Senate's amendment No. 5 we see that it relates to clause 11(10) which deals with the capacity of the Commonwealth now to make regulations governing nuclear codes which cannot take effect unless the Governor of the State has requested the Governor-General to make regulations for carrying out or giving effect to, or for securing the observance of, that code of practice in the State. What the Opposition is saying is that this Government is now seeking to pass amendments to the nuclear codes legislation- it is not simply talking about occupying the field- to the effect that unless any State government makes a request to the Commonwealth nuclear codes will not be brought into operation. I have been a member of a State parliament for many years and perhaps I understand a bit more about the operations of State parliaments than the Minister for the Environment, Housing and Community Development and members on the Government side. No State parliament anywhere in the Commonwealth, be it governed by the National Country Party Government in Queensland, the Liberal Government in Victoria or the Labor Government in South Australia, would ever pass this sort of legislation. They have a little more feeling about their sovereign rights than does this Minister and this sloppy slap-dash Government. No State government would pass legislation on industrial safety which says: 'We will implement it only if the Commonwealth Government asks us'. It would be unthinkable. 
This Government is not worried about nuclear codes or the protection of the environment. The speciousness of the Government's position stands exposed by these very amendments. From the word 'go' it wanted to produce uranium regardless of the dangers, regardless of the hazards and regardless of the safety of the men on the job. The Government was so anxious that in the first place, it produced a Bill which ran absolutely roughshod over State's rights. That was the view not only of members of the Opposition but also of every Premier throughout the Commonwealth. In order to sustain that objective of mining at any cost, irrespective of the dangers or problems, we now have before us a piece of legislation which is a disgrace to the Commonwealth Parliament, a disgrace to the party of Menzies. Has there ever been a more shameful, a more despicable, abnegation of the responsibilities of Parliament? This Government says: 'Of course we are concerned about the problems of safety in the handling of nuclear substances'. But it is so concerned about those things that there will be a nuclear code only if a State government asks the Commonwealth. 
-Federalism! The honourable member should look at the operations of State Parliaments. He does not have to look any further than the operations of his own Liberal colleagues in his own State. This Commonwealth Government is passing the responsibility on to not just the State governments; it is passing it on to the mining companies whose capacity to influence the level of codes and to influence State Government decisions is enormous. Everybody knows it. That is the real problem. The honourable member ought to look at his own State. There has just been a government inquiry which has revealed that a handful of property developers could corrupt the processes of government and waste government funds. There is some evidence of the capacity of those gentlemen. Property developers in Victoria do not have anything like the capacity of the mining companies. The Commonwealth Parliament is saying: 'Of course we will have a nuclear code for Queensland but only if the Government of Queensland wants it. We will have a nuclear code for Western Australia but only if  Sir Charles  Court and his good friend Lang Hancock want it'. Lang Hancock reckons that if you put bolognaise sauce on yellowcake you can eat it. There will be a code in those States only if those gentlemen say they will have a nuclear code. 
Whatever the Minister is about and whatever this Government is about, honourable members should not pretend for one moment that we are involved in an exercise in federalism. What we are involved in is a shabby exercise. The Government in the first instance brought in legislation which was hasty, ill-considered and concerned only with the objective of getting the whole process of uranium mining started. The Government made a mess of it and everybody knows. Now, in order to get uranium mining started before the wet season, the Government has adopted a position which completely contradicts and subverts any concept that the Commonwealth will be not the exclusive power but the paramount power in determining nuclear codes. That is the question that has to be considered. Nuclear codes will be needed because this legislation involves substances which will be a threat to every worker who handles them. 
The problem with the honourable member for Hotham is that he is the greatest political deep throat in the country. Every time he opens his mouth you can see his prejudices move. I would say this to the honourable member: How does he hope to get uniform codes when as between the State of New South Wales, the State of Victoria and the State of South Australia there are no uniform regulations on something as simple as putting a safety device on a circular saw? This legislation involves a whole new complex area of technology. The Opposition has argued right throughout that there has never been anything like adequate consultation or involvement with the States so far as their experience and knowledge are concerned. This Government, because what it is really concerned about is the whole question of uranium mining, has said: 'Righto, the Commonwealth chooses not to be the paramount authority and the real power for decision-making in respect of nuclear codes will rest with the States'. Given the political reality of the situation this is the position of the Commonwealth. Queensland has what has to be one of the most corrupt and decadent political systems operating anywhere in the Western democracies. Anyone who believes that the mining companies will not be the final arbiters and determinants of what constitutes an effective nuclear code, in terms of their interest and the way they perceive their interest, is not looking at either the reality or the history of this matter. One has only to look at what occurred in respect of the uranium mining at Rum Jungle. 
I want to deal briefly with some of the points that have been raised by speakers on the Government side of the chamber. It seems to me to be a very odd situation that when this Bill was introduced into this chamber- presumably it had been discussed in the party room of the Liberal Party and had received approval- what the Government was contemplating and endorsing in principle and what every honourable member on that side of the chamber voted for was a Bill which not merely gave the Commonwealth the right to prepare and develop nuclear codes but gave it that right exclusively. All the Minister had to do was to produce a code, see that a copy of the code got to a State Minister and then, acting on his own initiative, create an opportunity to consult. Then the Commonwealth code occupied the field. That was the principle endorsed by every honourable member opposite; that was the principle for which they voted in this Parliament. 
The Opposition moved an amendment to the legislation on three grounds. First of all we said- I do not want to read the entire amendmentthat the Minister and the Government should not proceed with the Bill until such time as they had consultation with, and provided all necessary material relevant to, the Ministers of all the States and the Northern Territory. We also asked the chamber to endorse a proposal that until such time as the States were satisfied on the hazards and dangers associated with uranium mining and nuclear activities the Commonwealth could not compel any State to mine. Was that a centralist position? Of course it was not. However, every supporter of the Government, including the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom),  voted for the legislation in its original form which was one of the most centralist pieces of legislation ever to come through this Parliament. 
What has occurred to cause the Minister, the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  and other Government speakers to change their minds? What has caused them to change their minds has been the view unanimously taken by all the States, irrespective of their political differences, that this legislation involved a gross interference with their sovereignty. The way in which the legislation was drafted proves that fact. That was the point we indicated to the Government. For the Minister to say that the Government has now brought in some amendments and it is now really all right avoids the real point. We say that there ought to be real and effective consultation because we believe that the Commonwealth has the major duty in this matter and ought to be the paramount authority in drafting nuclear codes. The opportunity to consult and the responsibility to confer does not mean the total abrogation of Commonwealth responsibility in this matter. That of course is what has occurred. If one looks specifically at the amendment, one sees that the operation of any code propounded by the Commonwealth can take effect only if the State asks for it. 
Let me make my position clear. I adopt the arguments put by my colleagues: Like many thousands of Australians I believe that there are grave dangers and problems, not merely national but also international, in the mining of uranium. Putting that to one side, at least we could agree that if uranium is to be mined the best possible codes governing the safety and welfare of workers in the industry ought to be produced. 
The amendment before the Committee virtually says that the responsibility for formulating a nuclear code will really rest with the States. The States are all in competition with each other in terms of attracting industry to their areas. They are all in competition in seeking overseas finance and overseas companies. Is it not a fact that a large company which wields tremendous influence and resources can say to a State: 'Of course we will come in and do something, but we are not too happy about the standards of your nuclear code. We think you should not have too high a standard'? Does anyone seriously believe that that sort of conversation will not take place? One has to look only at the history of Rum Jungle and the despoliation that has taken place in the environment there. It is interesting to note that the submissions made by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and by the mining interests to the Fox Commission as to what they  regarded as proper safeguards were rejected by the Commission. 
The problem which the Government is creating for itself in its determination to go ahead and to get mining under way before the wet season sets in, irrespective of the hazards and irrespective of the problems which that can create for Australia, is such that it is now prepared to throw away any responsibility in terms of operating as a paramount power in the formulation of a nuclear code. Historically we have seen the intransigence of the Queensland Government on a simple issue, such as that of Aboriginal land claims. Does the Minister really believe- I do not believe it for one momentthat, given the history of that State, it is going to say simply: 'Yes, we will accept what the Commonwealth gives us by way of a nuclear code'? The Queensland Government will make its own deals with the mining industry. The Commonwealth Government is adopting a standard by which it says: 'The States will have the say and we will get into the exercise if they allow us to do so'. In my view, that is completely unsatisfactory. 
Question put- 
That Senate's amendment No. 6 be agreed to. 
I ask the Minister for Health whether he is aware that community health centres, in carrying out their task of providing primary medical care, have depended heavily upon the ability to bulk bill their patients and doctors being prepared to accept as full payment for their services 85 per cent of the scale fee. Is he aware that the abolition of bulk billing, and the reduction of the rebate from 85 per cent to 75 per cent, virtually threatens the continuance of the present level of service? Is he able to inform the House whether he believes the continuation of this level of service, especially to low income groups, is of importance, and, if so, what alternative arrangements does he propose to make to enable community health services to continue to provide this very important facility? 
-I begin by saying that it is a pity that the time of the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  did expire. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  ought to take very closely to heart the statements that were made by the honourable member for Hindmarsh. I pay a tribute to that honourable gentleman for the courage and for the foresight that he has shown and for the role that he played in the establishment of the trade union training colleges. As he pointed out, they were not subject to immediate acceptance by the trade union movement. I have no doubt that on many occasions the Minister has not agreed with the honourable member for Hindmarsh, but, when the honourable member for Hindmarsh, with his knowledge and understanding of the trade union movement, sounds the warnings to the Minister that he has, I think the Minister and those members on the Government side who support him ought to pay some real regard to them. 
I believe this is a sad and a silly Bill. It is sad because it involves an issue which until the introduction of this Bill virtually was dealt with in this Parliament on a bipartisan basis, with all parties agreeing on the need for trade union training and with all parties in broad agreement on the nature of the structure that ought to be established. It is a silly Bill because many of the amendments which are proposed, as has already been pointed out by the honourable member for 
Hindmarsh and by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  do not have the support of any significant group or any significant spokesman experienced in industrial relations. These amendments were not sought by the trade union movement. They were not sought by the experienced advisers or spokesmen for employer groups. I also accept the view which was put by the honourable member for Hindmarsh, namely, that they were not sought by the Minister. There is no man of any reputation in industrial affairs who could be cited by the Minister or any of the honourable gentlemen who support him who will come out or who will lend his name to these amendments. 
I want, first of all, to pay a very real tribute to the work that is being done by those who have been responsible for the conduct and the management of the trade union training colleges because right from the inception of those colleges these people had the problem of selling this concept to the trade union movement. It was not a concept which was easily accepted. Secondly, they were caught with the problem of having a change of government- a government and a Minister which did not necessarily have all the perception and the sensitivity in this area of the former Minister. Then they were faced with very considerable Budget cuts. Let me just relate that aspect of the story. In the financial year 1977-78 the Government announced its intention that there would be no real growth in the activities of government departments and statutory authorities. Acting upon this, the Trade Union Training Authority prepared estimates for recurrent expenditure to enable full utilisation of the existing traimng staff and for capital expenditure to enable building works already commenced to be completed. 
It is normal for the estimates of a statutory authority to be submitted by its Minister directly to the Minister for Finance for subsequent analysis by his Department. In the case of TUTA for 1977-78, however, the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations took it upon itself to analyse TUTA's estimates and subsequently made a series of arbitrary alterations to them prior to their submission to the Finance Department. Consequently the allocation which was made available to TUTA for 1978-79 reflected a 14.5 per cent reduction on the actual 1976-77 recurrent expenditure level. The capital works budget was slashed by a staggering 88 per cent. Details of this reduced budget were not made available to TUTA until October 1977. The consequences were that TUTA's training activities had to be cut by about one-third, and its more expensive provincial and residential courses had to be cut to a point at which they almost ceased to exist. 
As regards its capital works program, the building of Clyde Cameron College ceased, leaving incompleted landscaping and little furniture and equipment to be installed in the College. The Victorian Centre of TUTA was being established in an ideally located National Trust classified building in Drummond Street, Carlton South, just down the road from the Trades Hall. The result of the reduced capital allocation was that all renovation work in the building ceased, leaving it in a truncated condition with no air conditioning, with the external grounds a quagmire and with rendering removed and not replaced in many areas. 
They were just some of the problems that confronted TUTA in its inception. My knowledge of the work which has been done is largely local and largely related to the State of Victoria.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave of the House- I have already discussed the matter with the Minister- to have incorporated in  Hansard  a document which has been prepared by  Mr Geoff  Fary. It is a report of the very real achievements of the Trade Union Training Authority in Victoria. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Notes supporting an Address by Victorian Director, Geoff Fary, to the V.T.H.C. on Thursday 10 November 1977. 
Victorian Centre, P.O. Box 281, Carlton South 3053. 2 Drummond Street, Carlton South. Ph. 347 94 1 1 . 

<graphic href="109131197805313_78_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="109131197805313_78_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="109131197805313_79_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="109131197805313_79_3.jpg"></graphic>

In addition unionists have attended short (half-day) seminars, details of which have not been recorded. 
I point out to the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  who had some individual blowing in his ear about how worried that person was about what was happening at the college that in fact the details in relation to the unions which have been in attendance indicate that some 89 unions have been involved, and that is more unions than are affiliated with the Labor Party in the State of Victoria. They are unions which go right across the political spectrum. 
That is another argument, but the point I am making is that it is completely spurious for the honourable gentleman- I commend him for at least going there and having a look- to say on the basis of a visit that he is supporting the Government 's amendments because some unnamed trade union official said to him: My word, you could not send your officers there because they might be subverted'. What nonsense! Why was not that a finding of the independent committee which examined all these matters? If some trade union official is prepared to tell the honourable member for Casey that all this subversion is going on surely that evidence would have been made available to the committee. It is nonsense. If the honourable gentleman knew anything about the way in which the trade union movement operates he would know it was nonsense. 
I suggest to the honourable member for Franklin and to the honourable member for Casey that they would do much better to rely on the objective findings of the report of the Committee of Inquiry in August 1977 because there is no way, on the basis of their knowledge, that they can do much more than accept that sort of information. All honourable members at the present time are caught up in the situation in which a distinguished member of this House is saying that a Minister of this House affected the redistribution in Queensland. I do not know whether he did or whether he did not. Honourable members opposite do not know either. Assuming, after all the evidence has been weighed and carefully canvassed, that the independent commissioner says: I find none of these allegations proven', will the Government say: 'Of course, that might be the finding of the commission but we have another view and, acting on that other view, we will throw that finding out the door'? Of course it would not. There has been an open inquiry. Very specific recommendations have been made. Let us look at them. Let us look at this question of employer representation which was very carefully examined by the Committee of Inquiry. Its finding, as stated on page 19 of its report, was: 
The confidence of trade unions in the authority's activities could be weakened by employer representation on Councils for Union Training and for this reason we should not recommend such representation. 
It could not be put stronger than that. It is an odd situation when the Minister comes into the House and says: 'Well, yes, I pay a tribute to the work done by the Committee, but we are not going to accept all its recommendations. We will accept only those that agree with our arguments. But those that do not agree with our prejudices, we will throw to one side '. Let us look at the Minister's second reading speech in which he said: 
The Government has accepted the general thrust of these conclusions. 
I suppose that in a fairly glib way, that is true. But the Minister went on to say: 
The Government considers that it is necessary to go further than the Committee recommends to provide for more efficient and effective management of the Authority. 
Well, with great respect, it seems incredible to me that there can be a report of this kind wherein all these issues have been examined and there are responsible employer groups, responsible union groups and experienced industrial judges, none of whom can be quoted by the Minister, none of whom can be used as an authority by the Minister. Yet the Minister says: 'Well, do not ask me to quote my authority'. Perhaps he did not know about these incredible conversations that the honourable member for Casey had. The Minister says: 'Do not ask me to justify our conclusion in any way at all. We give it to you as a bald, simplistic statement of fact. The Government considers that it is necessary'. Well, the Government may consider that it is necessary, but surely the House is entitled to know why the Government considers it is necessary. What was the evidence? Who gave it? Where did it come from? The honourable member for Hindmarsh has made some very damning statements, some very forthright allegations as to where that evidence came from. Those allegations need answering because what we have here is a situation whereby there has been an independent examination, with all the arguments that can be put, both privately and publicly, weighed and examined by a committee whose work was the subject of commendation by the Minister himself. It is true, then, as the honourable member for Hindmarsh says, that at the last minute forces operating within the Department- forces which were not necessarily serving the interests of the Government, the employers or the trade union movement- were then able to so influence the policy processes of the Government that we got a statement like this in the second reading speech: 
The Government considers that it is necessary to go further than the Committee recommends to provide for more efficient and effective management of the Authority. 
There is not one piece of evidence in the history of this organisation, in the tremendous problems that confront it, that the Minister can adduce to this House to show that that statement represents anything other than the jaundiced prejudices of those who are capable of formulating some of the propositions in this Bill. Some of these amendments are so petty as to be vindictive and trite. The Government says that it is necessary to alter the definition in the existing Act. Again there is no evidence to suggest that there was any subversion - 
Well, the inquiry did not recommend it in the narrow terms in which it is now. 
No, with great respect to the Minister, what the inquiry suggested was in fact that the definition was a bit general. Let us look at that definition in the existing Act. It states:  trade union training' means- 
educational, technical or practical training- 
capable of advancing and developing an understanding of the functions and objectives of trade unions in Australian society; 
That definition is broad enough to encompass a history and a knowledge of the trade union movement, its traditions, the fact that it was born out of a period of class struggle, the historic role it played in Australian society and the fact that many of the problems that confronted it in the 1920s and the 1930s are not the  sorts  of problems that confront it today. It is not confronted with the complexity of current Australian society and the fact that we have now developed a new work force; to use a Marxist term, virtually a new Lumpen proletariat in terms of the number of ethnic arrivals in our country who have made up a new working force with an ethnic tradition, a culture and a background that is not the traditional Anglo-Saxon background. That will have a real effect on the trade union movement. It is narrow and almost spiteful to say that we have to amend the definition section so that the Trade Union Training Authority must now concentrate on educational, technical or practical training, capable of advancing and developing an understanding of the functions and objectives of trade unions or officials of trade unions. It is like saying: 'Well, we are going to establish a college of theology. But all we are going to tell the priest who is a trainee is how to conduct a funeral service or how to conduct a wedding service. We will not tell him anything at all about philosophy or the tradition or the history which has made him the sort of person he is and which has given him a particular role in contemporary society'. It is that sort of spleen, that sort of nonsense, that permeates this legislation. 
I say to the Minister that I genuinely believe that the best thing he could do with this legislation would be to take it away and have another look at it. The Trade Union Training Authority has only now got itself into the position where I think it can say to the Minister that it enjoys the confidence of the trade union movement. But the trade union movement in Australia will not accept the view that this Authority is going to be an extension of some arm of the Government, an extension of the Department which is designed to produce tame cat union officials. That, of course, was the very real fear. That was the problem with which the honourable member for Hindmarsh had to struggle in order to establish this whole structure. There are grave doubts and grave concerns running right throughout the trade union movement that the confidence won by those dedicated officers of this structure by hard work, by sacrifice, by skill and by diligence, as the  record  shows, as the tables which I have laid before the Parliament show, will be lost overnight. It has taken more than three years to build up that confidence. I suggest to the Minister that if he loses that confidence, the simple thing for him to do is not to worry about the future of the Trade Union Training Authority, but to save his money, wrap it up and not pretend that some exercise in public relations will pull the wool over the eyes of the trade union leadership of this country. It is not going to be told by some employer's representative or by some departmental bureaucrat how it should develop training programs which are relevant to its future and the way in which it sees this society. I suppose that goes to the heart of the problem. 
I genuinely hope that the Minister will take account of what has been said to him. There is real concern within the trade union movement. If he proceeds with this Bill in this form, he runs the very real risk of losing the entire confidence of the trade union movement in terms of the whole future operations of the Trade Union Training Authority. If these amendments are passed, it will take a considerable exercise in goodwill for the trade union movement to live with some of the concepts which are now being pushed. It is a delicate exercise. It is one that I think could encompass the destruction of an institution which has already proved its worth, not merely to the trade union movement, but to the Australian people, the Australian community. 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
-I enter this debate to make several points. 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
My question is directed to the Acting Prime Minister. The right honourable gentleman will recall telling the House last Thursday that the Government 'has no intention of claiming privilege for members or Ministers' who might be required to give evidence to the McGregor Royal Commission. Is he aware of reports from the Prime Minister's touring party that the Prime Minister is expected to refuse to testify before the Royal Commission if he is so called? If so, do the assurances on this matter given to the House last week extend to include the Prime Minister? 
I enter this debate very briefly to correct the impression that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  endeavoured to give to the House and to the people of Australia when he suggested that somehow the negotiations between this Government and the Queensland Government in respect of the Aurukun and Mornington Island settlements constituted some sort of a triumph for the Minister and his Government. I would think it is the view of the average Australian- it is certainly the view of Opposition members- that the negotiations that were entered into by the Minister and the acquiescence that he gave to legislation which passed through the Queensland Parliament probably constituted one of the more shameful betrayals of Aboriginal hopes and aspirations that has taken place in Australia since Federation. 
As a comparatively new member, I sat in this House and was pleased to hear the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs when the matter of the future of the Aboriginals at Aurukun and Mornington Island was being debated. Clear and unequivocal assurances were given by the Prime Minister and the Minister that the Aboriginal peoples at both Aurukun and Mornington Islands would be given rights to determine their own future and that those rights would be made secure by the land passing to them. What occurred was a stand-off by the Queensland Government in a series of statements not only by the Premier of that State but also by  Mr Hinze,  the Queensland Minister for Local Government. We had the spectacle of  Senator Bonner  being roundly abused on the public media by Queensland State Ministers. I do not recall a single occasion when the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs issued any public statement either in support of  Senator Bonner  or to deal with the sorts of damnable propositions which were being perpetrated in Queensland by so-called 'responsible' Ministers of that State. 
This whole argument which equates a government policy with some form of Australian apartheid has of course emanated almost solely from the Queensland Government. The Queensland Minister for Local Government and Main Roads is on record condemning what he calls 'separate development'. It is quite interesting that the same gentleman who condemns what he quite wrongly sees as 'separate development' for Aboriginals in Queensland is a public supporter of separate development and the scourge and injustices that take place against the black people in Africa. They are two quite different sets of standards. 
Not once in the course of that debate did the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs enter the lists to say that if he has to express a viewpoint on behalf of the Government and on behalf of the Aboriginal people he stands by and supports not only the position of the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island but also the statements made by  Senator Bonner.  Far from the Minister coming into this House and saying that he has produced some sort of a triumph in these negotiations, I believe that when he looks at what occurred here he will see the shameful betrayal of the Aboriginal people. I was a member of a Labor Party committee that received representations from the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island. They journeyed to Canberra, so concerned were they about their future, but they were not even told by this Minister what were the results of the negotiations. The people - 
I would not want to test your generosity too far,  Sir. I  just want to deal quite specifically with and answer these points that were raised by the Minister in his second reading speech. Without imposing on your generosity, I would say that it is fair enough for me to deal with these points that he made and indeed to invite him to inform the House how it is that he and the Prime Minister can say that this Government is committed to the proposition of Aboriginal people being able to participate in and determine their future when deputations of Aboriginals from Aurukun and Mornington Island, while discussions were going on with the Queensland Government, were denied any access to those conferences by the Minister. They were not even told, when they sought that information, what their future would be. What had happened in the cosy complicity of Government rooms in Queensland was that the Minister had made a deal which of course involved, I believe, a shameful betrayal of the future of those people, and he knows it. 
Members of this Parliament are still receiving correspondence from residents of Aurukun and Mornington Island and the Uniting Church in Australia. Nobody, least of all the Minister, believes that what occurred in this set of negotiations did him or his Government any credit at all. The Commonwealth should have stood up to the Government of Bjelke-Petersen and his ministerial thugs and should have had at least the decency to stand behind some of the public positions that were taken by  Senator Bonner.  But what we had all along the line was a shameful capitulation. The Minister has come into this House on this occasion and said that all sorts of things were achieved at Aurukun and Mornington Island. I suggest it would have been better for him if he had concentrated in those other areas where perhaps some achievements might have been made. 
-I enter the debate again to make a couple of points. Firstly, I want to pay a tribute to my colleague the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  who, as a Minister in a former government, did more than any Minister in this place, before or since, to open up the whole question of Aboriginal land rights. 
I thank you for your lenience,  Mr Chairman.  I just want to make a few points very quickly. I remind the Committee that on Australia Day 1972 the then Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  announced that his government would not recognise the claims of Aborigines to ownership of land in the Northern Territory. From looking at  Hansard  I cannot find evidence that any of the honourable gentlemen who wax eloquent on this point dissented in August 1972 from the view which was then expressed by their national leader. Where was the experience of the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)-  who told us about his compassion for Aboriginals, which I accept, and his great knowledge of Aboriginals- in August 1972 when the then Prime Minister, whom he supported, said that he would not have a bit of it? What did the honourable gentleman do then? I wonder whether he made a stirring speech. I wonder whether he said: 'From all my knowledge, all my experience and all my compassion, I believe that that is a wrong position, a position that cannot be supported '. 
-I am delighted to get back to the clause. I realise that the honourable gentleman would prefer me to talk about the legality of the clause than about the record of his party on this matter. I have sat here and listened to the honourable gentleman telling me how much knowledge there is of this issue in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. I do not deny its knowledge. But it is not simply a question of knowledge; it is also a question of interest. What was the attitude of  Mr Justice  Woodward? No one can accuse  Mr Justice  Woodward of being a young radical. Having examined the record of the honourable gentleman's political colleagues,  Mr Justice  Woodward was quite emphatic in stating in his report that the future of Aboriginal land rights certainly did not rest, in terms of political judgments or the so-called compassion of members of the National Country Party, in the Northern Territory. Their interests have always been to defend their own economic interests as they see them. They are entitled to that point of view. 
Having had a look at the record, all I want to say is that honourable gentlemen opposite have discovered land rights. In 1972 their own Government would not recognise them. The honourable gentleman from the Northern Territory and some of his colleagues, including the present Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  certainly did not dissent at that stage from the position of their Government. I am sick of hearing all sorts of aspersions being cast at the honourable member for Wills and the other Ministers of the Labor Government. If it had not been for some of those members of the Labor Government speaking eloquently, passionately and almost with a minority voice in this Parliament, the granting of Aboriginal land rights would be 50 years away. I am tired of the unctuous hypocrisy of some honourable gentlemen opposite. I use this occasion to pay tribute to my colleague the honourable member for Wills. The record condemns honourable gentlemen  opposite  who in 1972 were prepared to let their Prime Minister tell them, as he did on Australia Day- a symbolic day- that, as far as he was concerned, there would be no granting of Aboriginal land rights in Australia. That is the record of honourable gentlemen opposite, including the honourable member for the Northern Territory. All the sentiments and pious hypocrisy that have now been expressed cannot change that simple fact of history. 
-In speaking to the amendments moved by the Opposition, I think it is fair enough to say that they are not just a list of amendments suddenly produced out of the air but are amendments, like the Labor Party's total position in relation to the Aboriginal land trust legislation, which are based upon the recommendations of  Mr Justice  Woodward. In any legislation which confers rights on the Government of the Northern Territory it ought to be noted that in his report at paragraph 740  Mr Justice  Woodward stated:  . . . I have proceeded on the assumption that the basic legislation would be introduced into the Australian Parliament. I think it is important that it should be protected in such a way that its provisions cannot be eroded by the effect of any Northern Territory Ordinances. 
The amendments that are now before the Committee are designed to strengthen the present Act to overcome some of the deficiencies which exist in it. We have to go back to the history of this legislation. One would find that the Act as it now is, as it was originally introduced, does not follow as closely the recommendations of the Woodward report as the legislation that was introduced into the Parliament by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  who was the responsible Minister in the Whitlam Government. Those changes are significant and they have to be understood. I have already pointed out that  Mr Justice  Woodward expressed concern about the attitude of the Northern Territory legislature. He mentioned disquiet that ordinances of that legislature would erode the principles of Aboriginal land rights. There are significant differences between the Act and the Woodward report. The amendments before the House are concerned to remedy those deficiencies. 
I summarise in a very basic way the differences that exist in the strength that the amendments, if passed by this Parliament, would add to the existing legislation. The original Bill introduced by the honourable member for Hughes provided that no 'mining interest' could be created with respect to Aboriginal land without the consent of Aboriginal owners. 'Mining interest ' includes the right to explore for minerals. Only if the Governor-General made a proclamation that certain mining interests were in the national interest and neither House of the Federal Parliament moved to disallow the proclamation could the wishes of the owners be disregarded. Under what I suppose could be described as the 'Viner Act', the 'national interest' is to be determined by the Minister after an inquiry. But the Act makes no provision for the way in which the inquiry is to be conducted or for Aboriginal land owners to be represented before it. The present Act, or the Viner Act, makes no provision for the grant of interest to Aborigines in towns or for the grant of land to Aborigines where they already have an interest, such as the Gurindji at Wattie Creek. 
The interesting difference is that the original legislation introduced by the Whitlam Government applied to all land in the Northern Territory but the present Act applies only to unalienated Crown land. Under the present Act, there is no specific provision, as was recommended by  Mr Justice  Woodward, which would expand the rights of Aborigines to enter upon pastoral leases for traditional purposes. There are no specific provisions relating to conservation of sacred sites or territorial waters adjoining Aboriginal land which in the Labor Bill were deemed to be part of the Aboriginal land. This was directly contrary to paragraph 474 (iv) of the Woodward report which was implemented by the Labor Bill and which made it impossible for roads to be built over Aboriginal land contrary to the wishes of Aborigines. 

 Mr Justice Woodward recommended that Aborigines themselves should control entry to Aboriginal lands- a power traditionally exercised by the Northern Territory Administration. The Labor Bill gave this power to the land councils and exempted any Aborigines from the need to have an entry permit. The Viner Act expands the right of entry of non-Aborigines and limits those exempt from the permit requirement to Aboriginals living in the Northern Territory. Under the existing Act, land councils no longer have- as they did under the Labor Bill- the duty to pursue on behalf of Aborigines claims to land. Their duties in the administration of Aboriginal land are far more limited. 
In the time remaining to me in this debate, I should like to deal quickly with one of the major pressures which is being exercised in the community by the Australian mining industry which recently has attacked the operation of the Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act. This has been done by way of a 15 page submission to various Government Ministers and by public comment by mining industry leaders reported in the daily Press. The substance of mining industry allegations is a claim that the Northern Land Council representing the traditional owners of Aboriginal land is making unjustified claims for profits from mining industry activities carried out in certain areas. It is being suggested by the mining industry that these claims- under section 44 and section 45 of the Act they must be referred to arbitration- will impede mining operations if no agreement is reached. The Mining Industry Council said that claims on behalf of Aborigines for a share of mining royalties are unjustified. The logic of that argument is that all minerals in Australia vest in the Crown and the Aboriginal land should be treated no differently from other land. It objects also to Aborigines seeking access to company books and records, including company projections and sales. Time does not permit me to deal with the very substantial campaign that is being conducted by the mining industry. 
I make the point, as clearly as I can, in terms of the view of the Labor Party: The fact is that not merely has this Parliament but also have the people of Australia accepted the fact that land has a special position in Aboriginal society. Land is full of significance for Aborigines. It is not just a hunting ground; it has a ritual, historical and cultural significance. It is inseparable from the total being of its Aboriginal occupants. If any part of the land is taken from the traditional owners, it has to be understood that a part of their culture is taken. From their point of view, the payment of money is insufficient compensation to the owners. If the use of land is essential to mining operations, a person who has the right to use the land- that is, the traditional owners represented by the Northern Land Council- is contributing to a mining venture just as much as if he were contributing cash as capital or a form of expertise. He is in the same position as a partner in a joint venture. . 
Mining companies are perfectly aware of the fact- like any person who borrows money from a bank or from any other lender- that if they want to borrow money they have to make their books available so that what they are engaged in can be fully examined. For the mining companies to launch the massive public relations campaign that they have is not only dishonest but also must be treated by this Parliament and by the people of Australia as indicating that their major concern is not the welfare of the people and the interests of the Northern Territory, and least of all their concern for the traditional Aboriginal occupants of the Territory, but their main concern in this situation is to make profit. In order to produce that result they have embarked upon a campaign which is specious, which is false and which is determined to put pressure not merely upon this Government but upon the Government of the Northern Territory. 
The amendments moved in this House, if passed, will strengthen the Act. They will strengthen the Act in accordance with the recommendations of the Woodward report. I believe that was an excellent report. I believe at this time, before this Parliament hands over responsibility to the Government of the Northern Territory, it ought to say clearly and unequivocally:  'We will strengthen this legislation in accordance with the Woodward report and in accordance with our review that it is time that the Aboriginal people who, for so long have been discriminated against in terms of their own tradition, their own rights, and their own culture will have their place in the sun and that their rights will not be diminished by mining companies which are prepared to use considerable funds to undermine their claims. ' 
-In speaking to this matter I want to deal in two ways with the statement made to the House. Firstly, the Opposition is dissatisfied because the statement made to the House by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is a totally inadequate, totally dishonest presentation of the facts of this case, and I will illustrate that substantively later on in my argument. Secondly, there is the matter of the Prime Minister's behaviour. He was asked question after question during Question Time today and he refused to give any answers to the House. It was only on the initiative of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  that the Prime Minister eventually chose to make a statement. I say that the behaviour and the evasiveness of the Prime Minister during Question Time was typical of his behaviour right throughout this sorry matter. 
Let me deal with the statement of the Prime Minister, his own statement, his own record. He informed the House that this matter was first raised on 21 December by the honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron).  It was then a matter for discussion on 17 January, although not by the honourable member for Fadden. The first three Ministers who were involved in considering the political and other implications of this matter were the Prime Minister himself, the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  and the then Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers).  Obviously at that stage the Prime Minister must have thought that there was some seriousness in the allegations, that it was a matter of concern, because a meeting was then held, not in the office of the Minister for Administrative Services, not in the office of the Minister for Finance, but in the 
Prime Minister's office. As a responsible political leader he called in all the relevant parties because present at that meeting were the honourable member for Fadden, the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  and the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull).  One may well ask: Was this an exercise by the Prime Minister in order to glean the truth? Was it an exercise by a political leader trying to produce calm within his own party? Or was it the action of a Prime Minister who was concerned to ensure that none of these allegations saw the light of day? 
I ask the House to consider the Prime Minister's own statement. He called a meeting of all the principal persons concerned. The matter was raised by the honourable member for Fadden, who was then the  Deputy  Government Whip. To use the Prime Minister's own words: 

 Mr Cameron had a lengthy document which he showed me briefly about his allegations. He did not leave a copy with me . . . 
Here was a serious allegation which goes ultimately to the whole nature of the electoral structure upon which the parliamentary system depends. Here was a  Deputy  Whip who had a substantive document and the Prime Minister was trying to get to the truth of the matter. However, in the Prime Minister's own words, although the honourable member for Fadden had a lengthy document he did not leave a copy of it with the Prime Minister. Is that not an extraordinary state of affairs? Is it not likely that the Prime Minister would have said to the honourable member: Give my a copy of your document. I will have it photostated so that we can explore the detail of it'. Would not the Prime Minister have said that? Of course he would have, but nowhere does that statement appear. What we have is a very glib statement by the Prime Minister that the honourable member for Fadden had a document but the Prime Minister never actually saw the contents of it and the honourable member walked away with it. I will deal with the importance of that later on. 
The next relevant date is one that is not mentioned in the statement. It was significant for the honourable member for Fadden because on that date his services as  Deputy  Government Whip were summarily terminated. Those of us in the Parliament who had been impressed by the vigour of this young  Deputy  Whip were left pondering. How could it be that such a dutiful servant of the Government could be sacked without as much as a smile from the Prime Minister? There would be some who are cynical enough to suggest that when the honourable member for 
Fadden would not back away from his allegations and desist from them the Prime Minister used his ever-trusty knife. Either the honourable member for Fadden had to toe the line in terms of party loyalty or he would lose his job. It was the actions of the honourable member for Fadden that produced this Royal Commission of Inquiry, not the Prime Minister's love of justice or his desire to see that the truth came out. The inquiry was brought about by the honourable member for Fadden and he has paid dearly for his position. He is even referred to by the Prime Minister in his statement as 'the present member for Fadden'. Obviously some things are going to happen in the future to that unfortunate gentleman. 
Turning again to the Prime Minister's statement, he refers to 'the best of his belief. The Prime Minister has these strange lapses of memory. He cannot recall details.  Senator Withers  was one of the first Ministers who discussed this matter with the Prime Minister at the very first meeting that was held but he cannot recall  Senator Withers'  involvement in the matter. I should have thought he would recall a phone call from someone as experienced as  Senator Withers,  a man who knows how the political machine operates and how the numbers operate. The Prime Minister knows the significance of a phone call to an electoral commissioner. Yet what we are asked to believe is that either  Senator Withers  forgot to tell the Prime Minister or that, if the Prime Minister was told, he forgot all about it. I do not believe that. No honourable member of this House believes it. I venture to suggest that you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  being a man of some integrity and capacity, do not believe it either. 
When does the Prime Minister say that he recovered from this temporary amnesia? According to his statement, he believes that the first occasion on which this matter was drawn to his attention was 16 April. Accept that as the Prime Minister's statement. If that were so and he knew about the extent and the depth of  Senator Withers'  involvement, why were the terms of the inquiry so narrowly fixed that in order for the Royal Commissioner to glean the truth of the Withers' involvement ultimately the terms of the inquiry had to be extended further on 30 May? The Prime Minister glibly says about that: 'Oh well, we were acting on legal advice'. But it is quite appropriate for a government or a Prime Minister or Minister, if he is acting on legal advice, to table the documents and to make them available. What is so secret about them? If, as we are told, the Prime Minister was acting on the best legal advice available to him, why were the documents not tabled as an integral part of the Prime Minister's statement? The highest level at which one could put the Prime Minister's statement on his own terms was that he did know on 16 April but that at that date he was not concerned to make the matter either specifically or generally a term of reference of the inquiry. Why? He says: 'Because we were really concerned about what Robinson was up to. Although we had known that Withers had been on the telephone, we did not want to give that any undue reference. We were really thinking about Robinson'. I do not believe that,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and I do not believe that any person who looks objectively at the evidence in this case believes it. That is the best the Government can do in this matter. It is a serious matter and it may well come to the question of the privileges of the Senate. 
I turn to the statement which has already been quoted in this House of  Mr Oakes,  a reputable journalist. Any journalist can misquote a statement or get a fact wrong, but does anybody in this House believe that  Mr Oakes  would invent a story concerning  Senator Withers?  Does anybody in this House believe that any accredited member of the Press Gallery would deliberately falsify or invent a story which he said was based on statements that were part of a briefing that went to members of the Press Gallery. Again, I do not believe that,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and I do not think that you believe it either. Therefore I think the credibility of the Oakes document is established. All the way through it are very interesting dates and facts which, of course, prove conclusively that the Prime Minister has not given all the facts to the House and that his statement is less than adequate, is purposely evasive and is deliberately misleading and dishonest. 
What is the Oakes account of Withers' recollection of these events? First of all, on the factual question of the time, Withers says that there was a record of his having had this conversation with a senior electoral officer and that that had been shown to the Attorney-General as early as 6 January. Again the involvement of the Prime Minister is clearly indicated because what Withers says occurred was that he was going to write a letter to Cameron saying that his allegations were really a matter for police investigation. It was at that point that it was suggested that the Prime Minister had better look at the letters. What is Withers reported to have said? Having shown these to the Prime Minister, whom we are told is an honourable man who wants all the facts to emerge, we are told that the Prime Minister's reaction was to say: 'I don't want to go down this track. Well be able to deal with this internally'. To quote  Senator Withers,  it was going to be buried. 
The only person who has been buried to date has been the honourable member for Fadden. Certain Ministers in this House today are now as guilty as the Prime Minister. It is interesting to note that the back bench members who have been involved in this matter have not entered this debate to defend the Prime Minister. The men who are party to this conspiracy to cover up were in there saying: 'Well, all we have to do is accept the Prime Minister's word and accept that occasionally he has amnesia '. I ask the House to consider why it was that the Prime Minister, on being confronted with a lengthy document from the honourable member for Fadden, did not ask him for a copy of it. Of course, that is dealt with again by Withers, who says that at one stage  Mr Fraser  had asked to borrow the documents to have them photocopied but  Mr Cameron  had refused permission. According to  Senator Withers,  he had said: 'I know what you'd do. You'd put them through the shredder'. 
The House, the Parliament and the people of Australia therefore have available to them two quite alternative views of what took place. One is the view that was peddled in this House today, no matter how inexpertly, by the Prime Minister- amnesia and all- and by a couple of Ministers who did their best to bolster him. But it is a view which, on the face of his documents, simply does not hang together. Then, of course, there are the alternative facts, which certainly have the ring of truth about them because the dates coincide. The alternative Withers statement points to the fact that the dates coincide with those in the statement produced by the Prime Minister. He just believed that it would be covered up. What occurred was simply that as the matter got under way someone had to be buried. First it was the honourable member for Fadden. Then it came to a matter of choice. The Prime Minister, having mishandled the situation, decided that if somebody else had to go it had to be  Senator Withers.  If the situation is such that  Senator Withers  has been guilty of impropriety, his guilt is no less than that of his political leader, who was party to these discussions and party to these negotiations and who, on this occasion, has grievously misled the House in an attempt to escape his own culpability. When all the facts  emerge it will be shown that the Prime Minister has lied to the House. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I raise for the consideration of the Parliament, the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  and the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  the future of the Australian Government Engine Works at Port Melbourne. It is public knowledge that the Government has taken a decision virtually to close this engine works. First of all, I want quickly to inform those members of the House who might not be familiar with the history of this important structure that it was founded in 1 943 to build steam engines for corvettes and cargo vessels built in Australian shipyards. In 1949 it began producing Doxford slow speed diesel engines for coastal shipping, of which 16 were built. In 1961 the Australian Government Engine Works began production of Sulzer slow speed diesel engines. Of these, 13 have been built, the largest being one of 21,000 brake horsepower. The facilities at the Australian Government Engine Works for producing these engines include a test annexe capable of testing engines from 200 b.h.p. up to 24,000 b.h.p. which cost $470,000 between 1961-65. The workshop is unique in the Southern Hemisphere and would be impossible to move. 
I have a fairly substantial file on this workshop. I would point out that the previous Government, concerned about the future of the workshop, began a series of investigations designed to involve and interest overseas companies in participating in the development and extension of the workshop, thereby increasing the variety of work it performs. The previous Government at all times envisaged that the Australian Government would maintain a continuing financial interest and involvement in the workshop because of the very specialised technology available there and its relevance to Australia's future defence commitments. At the time negotiations were proceeding certainly one large overseas manufacturing group and possibly three groups, with real specialisation in the technology of low speed engines evinced interest, and one large Japanese firm was deeply involved by virtue of representations made by the Department of Productivity. Work was carried out on a proposal which would have assured the future of the workshop and, more importantly, would have extended its technology and capacity. 
The present Government changed the guidelines which had formed the basis of the approach to overseas companies. In February 1976- and I think that this was probably the critical decision- the guidelines were changed. Overseas companies which had entered into these negotiations in good faith and were prepared to supply areas of technology and finance were suddenly told that the whole basis of the negotiations had changed and that the Government did not wish to retain or hold any equity in any organisation which may purchase or lease the factory. They were told that no special assistance could be presumed for presently unprotected industries and that the works would be sold or leased. This decision virtually meant that those overseas companies that had expressed interest in the future of the workshop immediately lost interest. It would be a brave and courageous overseas manufacturer which, having been involved in discussions with a previous government, decided to continue its plans after suddenly being told: 'Look, you can do whatever you want to do in the future in respect of the workshop, but you cannot rely upon us because we have changed our policy and we will not put up one dollar or one brass razoo. As far as we are concerned we want to dispose of this facility. ' 
Admittedly the Government's decision would have been influenced by the recommendation of the Industries Assistance Commission that no special protection should be made available to manufacturers of low speed diesel engines. I think it is time that someone pointed out to the Government that IAC recommendations ought not to be treated by the Government as being sacrosanct. It is not like Moses handing down the Ten Commandments from the Mountain. They are merely recommendations. It is the Government's responsibility to accept or reject those recommendations in view of alternative and other advice made available to it. 
That brings me to the other aspect of this matter. According to a memorandum produced on behalf of the Government the Department of Defence- and note it is the Department of Defence and not the Minister for Defence, and I invite the Minister to consider this matter at some stage- without proffering any detailed reasons, indicated that as far as it was concerned the workshop has no significant defence potential. If that is the position, I find it extraordinary that we in this Parliament can accept a situation in which a workshop that has this very specialised capacity and which, in my view, has defence potential, can be summarily dismissed as a result of the contents of a departmental memorandum. In fact an all-party parliamentary committee which was specifically set up to examine such matters has made another recommendation. The Joint Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence stated at page 191 of its October 1977 report: 
The Committee recommends also that the possible retention of the Australian Government Engine Works at Port Melbourne should be included in the expert group's field of examination and that in the meantime no disposal or leasing action should be taken that would jeopardise the ability of the AGEW facility to produce large diesel engines. The Committee regards retention of that ability to be just as important as maintenance of hull construction ability and would fully support any negotiated arrangement with an appropriate overseas firm that would ensure continued operation of the facility. 
I believe that when a parliamentary committeeany parliamentary committee- is given by this Parliament the responsibility of examining in detail and at great public cost and expense a set of questions and such a committee makes a very specific finding, that finding should not be summarily dismissed as being of no importance and relevance. Who gives some public servant in the Department of Defence higher priority, in terms of the basis upon which the Government makes its decision than an all-party parliamentary committee? As I have said, the report of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence was made in October 1977. 
The Committee consisted of some very distinguished people. They did not have any doubt about what they wanted to say. They put forward a set of recommendations that in my view had to be very fully examined by the Minister and by the Government. If we are not going to give the findings of parliamentary committees any relevance let us say so and stop wasting public money. The Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence in reality made a very strong, very firm and very positive recommendation on the future of the engine works and that recommendation has just been blithely ignored. At the same time the Government proceeds to involve itself further in quite considerable expenditure, in my view quite properly so, for extension of the facilities at the Williamstown Dockyards. One does not have to be a defence expert to realise that Australia is an island nation. The future of our shipbuilding industry, our capacity to service both our merchant and our naval requirements, is absolutely critical to our future defence capacities. 
I support the view of the all-party parliamentary committee. I ask both the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Productivity to stay their hands. Once this very important facility is disposed of we have disposed of a facility, a technology and a working experience which was absolutely critical to the past defence needs of this nation. I believe it is a shortsighted policy for the Government simply to say: 'Well, because this industry is giving us a few problems at the moment, we are going to throw the work force on the scrap heap. We are going to dismantle this facility. We are going to abandon this very important project. ' 
The Opposition is supporting the creation of this Committee. I hope that in considering it the Parliament whilst accepting the wide terms of reference, will not necessarily get into issues that are so broad that they are not really capable of any short term or even long term solution. The fact is that the Family Law Act has been in operation for more than 2 years, having commenced on 5 January 1976. The changes that were introduced by that legislation were in many ways quite fundamental and far reaching. They involved new concepts in our law. They involved new legal structures in the creation of the Family Courts. They involved the creation of a specialist court, in the Family Court, to administer the law. They established such a body as the Family Law Council which is a specialist body working in the fields associated with various aspects of the Act and its administration. I suppose that it is true to say that any statute passed by this Parliament which involves new social concepts will ultimately be interpreted by the courts in a way which in many instances could not have been foreseen by the legislators themselves. 
High Court decisions in cases like Russell v. Russell and Farrelly v. Farrelly have created new problems in the area of property and maintenance that members of this Parliament, at the time of supporting the implementation of the Family Law Act could not have foreseen or interpreted. The most recent report of the Family Law Council indicates a summary of recommendations which are already with the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)-  and I commend the work that has been done by the Family Law Council. While the courts interpreting this legislation have solved many problems, the solutions which have been produced often have created new challenges and problems which now have to be overcome. I hope that in dealing with those that an all party parliamentary committee will work on the basis that we live in a plural democratic community in which there are some sections that hold, as a result of deeply ingrained religious belief, that no divorce in any circumstances is permissible; others believe that divorce on certain limited grounds is permissible, and there are those citizens who have no religious belief at all. Of course, it is the responsibility of members of this Parliament, acting in the broad, as we do, to endeavour to produce laws which suit not merely the vast majority of our citizens but also, and more purposefully, which solve the real problems that exist in this area of law in Australia. I have not seen the amendment that has been foreshadowed. 
I do not have a copy of it. I add a note of caution about imposing upon any committee of this Parliament tasks which are not capable of a political or social solution. It might be fair enough, in terms of an exercise in political polemic, to ask: What are the effects on the nature of marriage and the family of the operation of the Family Law Act? Posed in those simplistic terms- with all respect to those who have drafted the foreshadowed amendment- I do not know how one with the wisdom of Solomon could make a finding on that matter in view of the pressures on family life in this community. 
I appreciate the honourable gentleman's motives but I put this to him: As members of parliament we have to understand the difference between divorce and marriage breakdown. Marriage breakdown will continue always, no matter what are the divorce laws or the statistics. For instance, it will occur in societies where there are no divorce laws and it will occur in societies in which there are very lenient divorce laws and where divorce virtually can be purchased. In my view divorce primarily is a symptom of the disease of marriage breakdown which itself is also a symptom of other pressures on the whole institution of marriage and the family which exist in the community. That is the problem that I see in attaching this type of proposed amendment- no matter how worthy the motives might be- to the motion to establish a parliamentary committee that is to deal with what I see as fairly technical problems associated with how we can make the Family Law Act, which was passed by this Parliament, work more effectively for the benefit of our people and solve many of the imposing legal problems which have been produced in the last 2 te years. 
I refer the Parliament to Part II of the Family Law Council's first annual report. It contains some pages covering questions on dissolution and nullity; custody and maintenance of children; third parties and custody; interstate enforcements of custody proceedings; overseas enforcements; the magistrates' jurisdiction in custody matters; affidavits by children regulations; questions of maintenance and property; powers over property on breakdown of marriage; recission orders; section 79A of the Family Law Act 1975; magistrates' approval of agreements under section 87 of the Family Law Act; and the vexed question of whether courts and their procedures ought to be open or closed. They are just some of the questions which at the moment have been referred to the AttorneyGeneral and which undoubtedly will come within the purview of this proposed committee. To provide answers to those questions is a substantial task. 
To ask this proposed committee also to engage in some sort of analysis of the effects of the Act on the nature of marriage and the family I think would be to refer an area of inquiry which ought not to be properly the purview or responsiblity of the committee. If the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  who is sponsoring the foreshadowed amendments, were to propose the establishment of a parliamentary committee to look at the whole question of the nature of the family in Australian society and the pressures upon it, I would support him. If that is seen as a separate and proper course for inquiry I think it would have some real merit. But I do not see how a committee, which will be hard pressed on a large number of complex legal and social issues, can embark upon a head of inquiry as wide as that which is envisaged in the proposed amendments and come up with a meaningful result. 
I turn now to divorce statistics. It is not surprising that in the first year of operation of the provisions of the Family Law Act there was a remarkable and dramatic increase in the number of divorce applications. I suspect that that was due to the fact that a large number of people were waiting on the passage of the legislation in order to effect divorce. But in the last 1 2 months the figures have levelled off and have gone back to a number similar to that for the number of divorces prior to the passing of the Act. Given the complexity of the legal problems that have to be considered, I do not know how the proposed committee, on the basis of  2Vi  years' experience of the operation of an Act which essentially involves an exercise in legal operations- it is a legal concept- can say that that Act has had any effects on the nature of marriage, and if so, what effects. 
What do we mean by the nature of marriage? Are we talking about a  Women's Weekly  view of marriage, a church view of marriage or a civil celebrant's view of marriage? Civil celebrants have been the subject of some criticism from the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock).  The nature of marriage really involves questions of polemic which in themselves can involve philosophers. 
There are many Acts that have - 
Many Acts have titles. If we were considering a coroners Act and the way in which the coroners court should operate, does that mean that we should ask a committee to deal with fundamental questions of death and life in the hereafter? There is absolutely no end to that polemic. I suggest to the honourable gentleman that we are living in a society in which the rate of change and the nature of our economic system have put the family under tremendous and inordinate pressures. There are many pressures which contribute to the cause of family break-ups but to attach the responsibility of ascertaining the cause of family break-ups to a parliamentary committee that has the responsibility of trying to make more effective what has been an important piece of social legislation, of ironing out the very specific references that have already been referred to the Attorney-General and of producing a piece of legislation which will be relevant to a plural democratic community so that the problems of divorce, maintenance and custody can be resolved in a way which is sensible and rational is to confuse the issue. They are inordinately difficult, complex, legal and social tasks. It seems to me that to add to that the interesting question of the effects on the nature of marriage and the family and to isolate the operations of this Act in terms of that very important question is to confuse the very important question of marriage breakdown with the question of divorce. 
It is the issue of marriage breakdown that produces the real question of what sort of divorce legislation we have. To attach this issue to the inquiry, as the proposed amendment does, and to confuse those two issues seems to me to impose an intolerable burden upon a committee which is already faced with awesome tasks. The honourable member for Lilley, who is sponsoring this proposed amendment, is concerned, and quite properly so, with the problems that bedevil and upset the average Australian family right across the board at the present time and he wants an inquiry to be conducted into marriage breakdowns. I think that is legitimate and proper. But to merge these two issues is to pose a question which I do not think can effectively and satisfactorily be answered by the committee. It will impose upon it a burden which it will not be able to discharge and which will occupy time that could be better expended on the real issues before it. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 17 August 1978: 
1 ) Is it a fact that no grants have been made to the Shire Council established to administer Aurukun and Mornington Island. 
Is it also a fact that funding which is being provided by the Government of Queensland is being provided by the Queensland Depanment of Aboriginal and Islander Advancement and all receipts and payments are being handled by officers of that Department. 
Do these arrangements comply with his promise that these Aboriginal communities will manage their own affairs. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 17 August 1978: 
1 ) On what occasions in the last 3 months have there been meetings with officers of the Queensland Education Department and the Co-ordinating and Advisory Committee to discuss the question of truancy and the continued provision of educational services to the outstation communities at Aurukun and Mornington Island. 
Who was present at these meetings and who represented the respective Aboriginal communities. 
What discussions were held at these meetings, and what has been done to supplement the discussions. 
-I want to raise the problems which have been confronted, I suppose in a social sense, by this House over the last 24 hours by the operation of section 144a of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. I do not want to develop the particular local dispute that is in the hands of an arbitrator. I simply want to say that the dispute that took place in my home town of Melbourne over a week ago was far more serious. It indicated what can occur as a result of the operation of a section of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which has not been fully thought through. Industrial relations is a sensitive area. I believe that unless this section is subject to fairly early amendment it will create far more problems than it will solve. 
What occurred in my home town was that a Miss Biggs, who was an applicant for employment by the Melbourne and Metropolitan Tramways Board, sought and was granted an exemption from joining the relevant union. If one looks at the history of the Tramway and Motor Omnibus Employees Association, one finds that it has been operating on the basis that all employees of the Tramways Board are members of the union. That is known to the Board, it is known to the union and it is known to any person who is an applicant for a job with the Melbourne and Metropolitan Tramways Board. Indeed, less than 18 months ago there was a major industrial confrontation on this very same issue and it led to a prolonged industrial stoppage. It was as a result of that dispute and the decision made in that case that I think the Government acted somewhat precipitately in introducing section 144a into the Act. 
What that section does has to be understood. It says that the Industrial Registrar is given no option but to grant an exemption from membership of a union if requested on conscientious grounds. The trade union movement has been long used to living with genuine grounds of conscientious objection. There is nothing new in that. But the grounds now are so wide and the Registrar's discretion is so limited that someone who goes along and simply says: 'I do not want to join a union', can create a situation in which the options of the Registrar are very limited. There is no real test of the conscientious character of the objection claimed. There is no competing, alternative argument put up by the union or the employer. There is no capacity for cross-examination. There is no appeal and the Registrar is not obliged to state reasons. Let us look at what occurred in Melbourne. The Melbourne and Metropolitan Tramways Board did not seek to create this problem. It cost the Board $137,000 a day. The tramways union certainly did not want this problem to occur. All its members lost a week 's wages as a result of it. The Government of Victoria also did not want this problem to occur. Within 24 hours of the exemption being granted it offered Miss Biggs another job. We had a situation in which a major sector of the public transport of a city the size of Melbourne was paralysed because of the stupidity of the Federal Government and the way in which it has gone about producing this section of the Act. 
What does Miss Biggs herself say about this matter? It is interesting to note how the operations of the Act are seen not by me or any of the protagonists but from the point of view of Miss 
Biggs. She said that when she applied for a certificate three weeks ago she told the Industrial Registrar that her specific objection was to those unions which used strikes to disrupt vital industries. If she had been subject to any crossexamination of that statement in respect of the tramways union, there is no way in which that objection could have been sustained. Miss Biggs went on to say that it was made clear to her that a certificate would not be issued unless she opposed all unions. She then said: 
I was virtually forced to say what I didn't really believethat all unions, and the concept of unionism, are bad. 
This statement was made by the young lady when she was contemplating joining another union. I believe that at the present time there are enough problems in the industrial relations area facing employers, unions and the Government without creating ground for this sort of industrial confrontation. In the Biggs case the evidence was such that she probably would not have received exemption if she had been subject to any proper examination. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 17 August 1978: 
Is it a fact that on 21 July 1978 the Queensland Government ordered four white community advisers, namely  Mr T.  Morris, Reverend J. Adams, a community counsellor, MrS. Lee, a plumber, and  Mr P.  Kaufman, of the Federal Department of Aboriginal Affairs, out of their homes at Aurukun. 
Is it also a fact that the Aboriginal Council was not consulted in respect of this order. 
If the position is as stated, when was this action of the Queensland Government brought to his attention, and what action did he take. 
Was he invited to make any public statement on this matter; if so, did he do so. 
If he made no statement, what was his reason. 
-I desire to use the occasion of the adjournment debate to raise a serious matter concerning the reputation of the Parliament of Victoria and members who serve in that Parliament. This afternoon in the Victorian Parliament a document was tabled by a former member of the Liberal Party of Australia, a  Mr Jennings.  It is a 64page document and in it very serious allegations are made against members of the Victorian Government - 
That is what I am proposing to deal with. Because I was mentioned, as was the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch),  I want to take the first available opportunity in this Parliament to deal with those aspects of the allegation insofar as they concern me. I say, quite frankly, that if there were any substance or truth in the allegations as they affect either myself or the Minister for Industry and Commerce in terms of our representation in this Parliament, neither of us would be fit to hold public office. Therefore, being a member of this institution, I believe it is proper that in this Parliament I should raise the substance of the allegation that is made and deal with it here, conscious of the fact, as we are all aware, that any honourable member who makes any statement to the Parliament which is untruthful has a course of action to follow that is time-honoured. I certainly would observe that tradition. 
In a conversation which took place between a  Mr Jennings  and  Mr Dunstan,  who was then Minister for Public Works, it was suggested by  Mr Dunstan,  following a question by  Mr Jennings,  that there had been no questions asked in the House in 1974 concerning the Melton land deal. According to  Mr Jennings'  statement,  Mr Dunstan  's reply was: 
 I told you Melton stinks'. I said - that being  Mr Jennings- 
Yes, 'I know that but why didn't Clyde Holding ask any questions?' He said, 'I told you it stinks. There are 30,000 reasons why he didn't.' I said, 'Do you mean he was paid off?' He said, 'Of course he was paid off. Any fool would realise that.' I said, 'It is certainly rotten when the Opposition Leader is shut up by money.' He said, 'I know that but the members of the Party and the people in the electorate keep voting us in; so why shouldn 't we? ' 
First of all, I say that the substance of that statement is completely false. At no stage did I as Leader of the Opposition in Victoria, or any member of the parliamentary Party, ever receive any suggestion of an emolument, nor did we at any stage allow any action that we took in the Parliament, either by way of question or the initiation of action, to be influenced by any such suggestion. I go further than that and say that the nature of that suggestion does not simply involve my reputation. I am more than capable of looking after that in my private capacity. I say that the matter goes to the institution of parliament itself. It is a grievous statement which suggests that, as between a member of a parliament who is supporting a government and a Minister of the Crown, there is graft and corruption on such a scale that Ministers of the Crown would clearly have to be involved in those scandalous transactions. That in itself is bad enough. 
It is even more calculated to bring the parliamentary institution and the individuals in it into disrepute if it is suggested that it is possible, if the matter concerned is being properly investigated, to simply buy off the Leader of the Opposition and members of the Opposition. I repudiate that suggestion. I say that it is a lie. I say to this Parliament that it is a lie and I have invited publicly the Premier of Victoria to hold a judicial inquiry into all these allegations. However, at the earliest possible time, within the precincts of this Parliament, I wanted to use this opportunity to make a clear and unequivocal statement to the Parliament. Not only have I taken the earliest possible action publicly to refute the allegation, I have done it in this institution. The Minister for Industry and Commerce can take his own action in respect of this matter. I simply say that if there were one tittle of evidence in this allegation none of us would be fit to hold public office. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr  MillarOrder!  The honourable members time has expired. 
I ask the Minister for Industry and Commerce a question in respect of the Jennings allegations. Does he share my view that these allegations against himself and myself, against the Premier of Victoria, the  Speaker  of the Victorian Legislative Assembly and a large number of Ministers of the Victorian Cabinet are so serious that if they were to go unchallenged none of us would be fit to hold any public office in any Parliament in Australia? That being the case, in order to deal with these allegations, will he join me in making representations to the Premier of Victoria for an open judicial inquiry to be held on the broadest possible grounds in order that all these allegations can be examined and finally laid to rest? 

 -Mr Speaker, I desire to make a statement to the House on the basis that I have recently been seriously misrepresented. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Industry and Commerce. I draw his attention to recent public allegations made by the honourable member for Lalor wherein it has been admitted that the Minister, while occupying the position of Treasurer, exercised his official ministerial powers in favour of QBE Insurance Ltd in respect of a recommendation from the Foreign Investment Review Board to enable QBE to sell a property in Brisbane to an overseas company known as American Housing Insurance Corporation Ltd. That decision, which was a ministerial decision for which the Minister alone was responsible, was announced on 22 December 1976. In June 1977 the Minister obtained a personal loan of $79,000 from QBE on extremely favourable terms. 
I desire to deal with subdivision 4.07 of the Appropriation Bill, the International Atomic Energy Agency. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock),  in his statement to the Parliament on 24 August last, when tabling agreements with the Republic of Finland and the Republic of the Philippines concerning the sale of our uranium, again repeated that Australia will sell uranium only to those nation states that are prepared to accept their obligations under the Treaty on the Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. It is essentially upon that Treaty that Australia has to rely in the hope that Australian uranium is not eventually used for the proliferation of nuclear weapons. It is not good enough for those of us who are concerned about the fact that there are too many nuclear weapons in the world simply to accept without argument that, as a nation producing uranium, we can simply rely upon the operations of the International Atomic Energy Agency and upon treaties to limit the use of Australian uranium in the production of nuclear weapons. In the real world in which Australia must operate, governments come and go. In the final analysis, whether a nation determines to become a nuclear power in its own right is essentially a decision which it takes in terms of its view of its own self-interest. 
The International Atomic Energy Agency is responsible for checking observance of the Nonproliferation Treaty. But in 1976 it had only 44 field agents to examine the world's nuclear activities and the vast majority of its funds- that is, 80 per cent- went to 'promotional activities'. The essence of the International Atomic Energy Agency's activities is bookkeeping. Agency inspectors do not scrutinise the physical protection of the materials. That is left to individual nations. Some countries make themselves quite open to IAEA inspectors whilst others prefer to do their own reporting on themselves. Sometimes these reports are filed late; sometimes they are not filed at all. Some countries even assert the right to reject a particular inspector until the IAEA sends one more to their liking. The Fox inquiry in its first report listed nine main limitations and weaknesses of the IAEA system. At page 147 it concluded: 
The Commission recognises that these defects, taken together, are so serious that safeguards may prove only an illusion of protection. 
Having regard to the serious inadequacies that have been thus far exposed by the Fox report and other serious commentators, it is simply not good enough for this Government to assert that IAEA safeguards of themselves provide any real basis against nuclear proliferation. 
Even the Agency has admitted to the inadequacy of its own controls. In September 1977 at the general conference in Vienna it reported on plans to tighten controls in the light of evidence that in 10 countries inspected in 1977 it was unable to fully verify adherence to safeguards. The other basis asserted by the Minister as giving Australia a sanction against any purchasing nation which does not comply with or breaks an agreement is the interruption of supply which the Minister sees as a serious deterrent and sanction for the receiving country. That assertion must be viewed in the light of history. Certainly historical experience does not allow us to share the Minister's confidence. 
India, which in 1974 exploded its own atomic device, had accepted a safeguard Canadian reactor and then built its own plutonium reprocessing plant nearby. After the first Canadian fuel load was taken out of the reactor, the Indians replaced it with fuel made from Indian uranium. The Canadians were then informed that the safeguards no longer applied. It is perfectly true that the Indian explosion, made possible by United States and Canadian aid, was one of the  major  events which affected the formulation of United States policy on nuclear proliferation in recent years. Others were a $25m French deal to supply Pakistan with a re-processing plant giving it easy access to plutonium and therefore bombs, and a West German agreement to provide Brazil with a complete nuclear industry for $ 8,000m which entailed even greater risks. It is true that these sales reflect the intense competitiveness of international nuclear markets. 
The existence of huge financial stakes and rivalries in this market is a factor which can readily affect any agreement that Australia makes to sell uranium. That factor has been ignored completely by the Minister in his statement to the Parliament. The competitiveness of the nuclear power industry and the huge financial stakes involved mean that countries are tempted to compete with each other by relaxing safeguards for customers or offering highly sensitive technology such as re-processing or enrichment technology. That was precisely what occurred when West Germany won an agreement to provide Brazil with a complete nuclear industry for $8,000m. Germany was able to win an order for eight nuclear reactors by offering the re-processing technology that its only serious competitor, the Westinghouse Electrical Corporation, could not meet due to the United States policy which prohibits the overseas sale of reprocessing plants. 
The fact is that the International Atomic Energy Agency has no authority to take action against any violations other than simply to announce them. Most countries consider occasional inspections to impinge on their sovereignty; few countries would grant an international team police authority to confiscate diverted bomb grade materials. The experience of the United States shows that we should put very little faith in bilateral agreements on safeguards. After all, the United States has traditionally insisted on the same veto rights as the Minister now asserts Australia will have, but the United States found that these rights were violated in 19 cases between 1971 and 1974. In each case fuels, including plutonium, supplied by the United States, were shifted from one country to another without American permission. If the United States, with its intelligence and administrative network, could discover these contract breaches only after the event, what hope has Australia of ensuring that its safeguards are adhered to? The fact of the matter is that in order to chase the quick dollar by the sale of uranium this Government has endeavoured to minimise the risks and the problems involved in nuclear proliferation. 
The only real statement on this matter made to the House on 24 August last did not face up to the real problem of the inadequacy currently present in IAEA safeguards but the Minister for Foreign Affairs by not stating these problems is simply hoping that the people of Australia will not be aware of them. Having regard to the history of nuclear proliferation and the obvious difficulties in terms of real politics of trying to make a nuclear proliferation treaty work, the Minister does himself no service and the people of Australia real disservice when he oversimplifies and avoids the real problems posed by the sale of Australian uranium and its potential significance in expanding the nuclear arsenal that already threatens the future of mankind and life on this planet as we know it. 
Progress reported. 
Has the Minister for Post and Telecommunications recently approved new arrangements whereby householders and post office employees are forbidden to redirect mail and cheques going to the unemployed from the Department of Social Security, and are forbidden to hold such mail for collection at post offices? What are the reasons for this infringement of personal rights and the alteration of traditional Post Office practice? Is the Minister not concerned that this decision will disadvantage unemployed persons moving around the country in search of seasonal work and those who, through no fault of their own, are without a settled address? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 24 August 1978: 
1 ) Which State and private schools in the Electoral Division of Melbourne Ports have received Commonwealth Grants during each of the years 1971 to 1978. 
) For each school what was (a) the amount received, (b) the purpose for which the grant was made and (c) the fund from which the grant was paid. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
1 ) With reference to his answer to a question without notice on customs surveillance aircraft  (Hansard,  19 September 1978, page 1 103), what is the minimum speed of the 3 aircraft required by the Bureau of Customs for customs surveillance. 
On what basis was the figure calculated and on what past experience of the Bureau is that speed regarded as a minimum. 
Which officers of the Bureau prepared the tender for the surveillance aircraft. 
What experience in air surveillance have these officers had. 
If they have had no surveillance experience, what expert advice did they receive and from which persons or organisations was it received. 
-I enter this debate with some concern and some regret. I am concerned about the way we are dealing with a piece of legislation which affects the living standards of hundreds of thousands of Australian citizens, all of whom through no fault of their own are living at the lower end of the socio-economic scale. Those living standards are being determined by the legislation with which this Parliament has been dealing in an almost cavalier and reckless manner, both last night and today. The cavalier approach of the Government would have been apparent to any Australian citizen who walked into this chamber last night. Any proper examination of the  Hansard  will show that in considering this matter the Parliament has nothing to be proud of and, even worse, the Government has nothing to be proud of. One of the reasons why a restive sense has been prevailing in this chamber since this Bill was introduced is the unique situation in which the Government finds itself. The Government has introduced a major piece of social legislation which, as I have said, affects the living conditions of hundreds of thousands of Australian citizens and all it can do is list three speakers- and each of those speakers spoke against the legislation. 
-I realise that, sir, but I am bound to say in my defence and with deference to you- and I will come to clause 8- that - 

 - Mr Chairman, one must look at clause 8 in terms of the general pattern and principle it is endorsing. Clause 8 stands as pan of that general pattern and that general principle which has been enunciated right throughout the Bill and which limits the existing standards and conditions of those who are receiving social welfare payments. 
Let us look at that clause first of all in the broad. By 'in the broad ' I mean by way of the political morality which is contained within it. The fact is that in respect of this clause, as with all the other major clauses of this Bill, the Government has broken its convenant with the Australian people. Let us examine the words of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in respect of his attitude towards pension payments generally. On 5 April 1977, the Prime Minister was quoted as saying: 
The Fraser Government will continue to exempt pensioners over 70 from any means test. 
The report further stated: 

 Mr Fraser told a questioner that pensioners over 70 were quite happy and secure' in not being forced to undergo a means test to qualify for a pension. 
The Prime Minister was also quoted as saying: 
I don't think we can really get back to the situation where the pension is means-tested over 70. 
Let us look at what the Minister for Social Security, the  Hon.  Margaret Guilfoyle, the working girl's 'Margaret Thatcher', had to say. She said: 
I've had lots of people say to me 'You Ve given us dignity because you don't argue about our rises every six months'. 
The reality is that in an election situation the Prime Minister and his responsible Ministers committed every honourable member opposite clearly and unequivocally to the view that if this Government were to be re-elected every pensioner in Australia, no matter what was the level of the pension or the nature of it, would not have his situation made worse. There was a clear and binding covenant that their situation would not be made worse. It is as simple as that. I believe the reason for the restiveness in the chamber, the reason that honourable members on the other side of the chamber have been leaping up to assert matters of conscience and matters of liberty and have been coming into and out of the chamber as though they were caught in a revolving door at Myers, is that there are men of honour on the other side of the chamber, that there are men who regard any contract as being a binding moral obligation. If in the normal course of their commercial and daily lives they say that they are going to buy a car from a gentleman down the street and pay him $500 for it and then they shake hands on the deal their word is their bond. 
-There are a few who operate at that level, at a personal level. But when it comes to operating at a public level, as far as they are concerned it is perfectly all right for the 
Prime Minister of this country to make a statement such as that which he made on 17 July 1976 when he said: 
Our Government is a Government of social reform. 
The Prime Minister also said in his policy speech: 
We stand by our commitment to abolish the means test on pensions. 
That was a covenant, an invitation to vote for every one of the honourable gentlemen opposite. The reason for the guilt that now emanates from across the chamber, the reason for the disorderliness that has taken place in the chamber, the reason for some young gentlemen suffering from acute cases of 'Wranitis' - 

 - Mr Chairman, that is only because this Government has tried to gag thus legislation. It has used the guillotine in this place so that the views of pensioners in my electorate and in other electorates throughout the Commonwealth cannot be put. 

 - Mr Chairman, the way I put my argument on this matter is simply this: Clause 8 is part of a whole series of clauses, a number of which have been dealt with and some of which have yet to be dealt with and which, taken together, form part of a total philosphy, a total approach on the part of this Government, which assertion has not been contradicted by honourable members on the other side of the chamber. I am happy to dwell at much length on the implications of clause 8, but when one puts clause 8 and clause 9 together the net result is the same. That result is to put the burden on those people in this community who are least able to protect themselves and who, in an inflationary situation, are most deserving of the protection and the sympathy of this Government. It is these people who are being asked to carry the bag, who are being asked to make sacrifices for the economic incompetence of this Government. It does not matter how I argue the merits or demerits of clause 8. It is a pretty silly exercise when the Opposition, almost to a man, has been gagged. What we are now being told is: 'Don't look at the principle. Don't look at the morality. Look at the clause'. If we look at the clause we see that it is a damnable clause, that it is part of a damnable piece of legislation and all the nonsense and all the procedures that we adopt will not make it any better. This Government has embarked upon a set of procedures in this Parliament which are a disgrace to the Westminster system, a disgrace to this Parliament and a disgrace to this Government. True it is that a few of the younger back bench members, for whatever motive- and I do not question it- have tried to dissociate themselves from the Government on this issue, but what sort of government do we have when we have legislation like this before the chamber, and I am talking about clause 8 because it is no better than the rest of the Bill, and not one member of the Government will come forth to do battle for this iniquitous, immoral and rotten piece of legislation? 
Very quickly I want to take up the point made by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt).  It is perfectly fair for the Government to say that indexation should take place only every 12 months- it could even make it every two years or three years- if it is looking at those groups in the community who are on high incomes. But when it is looking at low income groups it is unjust, harsh and oppressive to adjust pensions only every 12 months. Even if one took the most optimistic view of inflation, the reality is that over the course of the next 12 months prices will rise and, as they rise, the standard of living of those people relying on social welfare benefits will decrease. This was not the time to change that policy. With respect to the Minister, I do not believe that his argument holds any water at all. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 9 to 15- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 16 (Condition of grant of benefit). 
I am not one of those who suggest that we should keep a social welfare benefit simply because it is there and has been there for some time, but I am not compelled to think otherwise by the arguments of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt).  The fact is, first of all, that the amounts given to mothers on the birth of a child have stayed the same for 30 years. Last year the allocation was $7m. That represented a payment being made to over 200,000 mothers. The argument used by the Minister- it contains a certain amount of logic- is that because of the extent to which a universal health scheme pays the bills for childbirth this concept might be redundant, but what the Minister is overlooking and what those who drafted this proposal have overlooked is that the purchase of basic equipment for the child was part of the original concept. If the Minister goes back and examines the position he will also see that it was built into the original concept that in many cases the period of childbirth, particularly with low income families, would involve some possible loss of earnings to the mother. 
I do not believe, in fairness to the Minister, that-we should ever get away from the social reality in this situation. We have been told by the Henderson survey on poverty that those groups most desperately in need of real assistance in this community are not so much the unemployed or the age pensioners but the young families where perhaps the breadwinner is in receipt of a low award wage. The surveys of the Henderson commission of inquiry show that many of those families are living below the poverty line and in respect of - 
I am trying to argue this matter sensibly and rationally. If I could get even one tiny intelligent comment from the honourable member for Bendigo I would be grateful. If the only comment he can make is a stupid one, he would do better to keep quiet. I know that from the social height which the honourable member thinks he commands it would not occur to him that there are people in the community who actually live below the poverty Une. 
The honourable member for Canberra is not in any position to speak - 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! The honourable member for Melbourne Ports will resume his seat. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
The problem with the honourable member for Bendigo - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member for Melbourne Ports will address his remarks to the Chair. 
I will, and I will ignore the inane ravings from the little fascist from Bendigo. The situation is that there is still a case which ought to be looked at with some sensitivity - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)-  Order! I suggest to all honourable members that a little decorum would be in order. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  The honourable member for Melbourne Ports will withdraw the offensive remark that has upset the honourable member for Bendigo. 
-If the honourable member finds it offensive, I will withdraw it. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I suggest that the honourable member for Bendigo also withdraws the comment he made about the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! 
I will ignore the last part of that statement,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  The point 
I am concerned to make is simply this: There is an argument that the Government ought to continue to look at the continuing payment of maternity allowances in order to meet the problems of so many families which in fact get real benefits from it. In my view, the Government has been badly advised on this aspect of the matter. I believe that the Government's approach to the matter is almost symptomatic of its approach to that which I suppose could be properly called, as it was called when the back bench of the Liberal Party had what we were told was a successful revolt, the newsboys tax. We were told on that occasion that the Government was really out to tax the beneficiaries - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)-  The honourable member for Bendigo will withdraw that remark. I consider it unparliamentary. 
The point that I was making related to quite extraordinary circumstances. I can understand why the honourable member for Bendigo is so easily upset. We were told that a government, many of whose Ministers are very experienced in the operation of family trusts they know how they work all sat down and decided that what they were concerned to do was to - 
-The honourable member cannot ever get one right, so why try? He has not got one right in five years. Sit down, you great idiot. 
I am talking to the honourable member. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I call the honourable member for Bendigo on a point of order. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I suggest that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports is ranging far and wide in this debate. He should more closely align his remarks to the clause under discussion. 
I am perfectly happy to do so. The point I am making is that the Government has been badly advised on this matter, just as it was badly advised in respect of another matter which it eventually abandoned. That is the point I am concerned to make. In order to illustrate the point I am pointing out that many of the Ministers of this Government were very fully informed as to the operation of family trusts. They had that working knowledge and they had the best of legal advice. They said that what they were really out to attack was the operation of family trusts and funds in the hands of children. They finished up taxing the newsboys. I suggest that the same kind of looseness of approach that caused the Government to adopt that position, and then finally abandon it as a result of all sorts of pressure from within the Parliament and outside, is the same kind of looseness of approach which characterises the Government's position on the payment of maternity allowances. 
Even at this late stage something could be done. We are not looking at a great deal of money. The amount involved is only onethousandth of the total expenditure of the Department of Social Security. I believe that to abolish the allowance in this way is an exercise in meanness and triteness. Honourable members on this side of the chamber say that as a matter of social judgment, given the problems that beset many young families throughout Australia in 1978, this allowance should not be abandoned at this time. We say that particularly having regard to the fact that the whole question of health benefits and the full flow of those benefits has yet to be worked out in terms of the impact that it will have on the general living standards of young families in this community. I hope that between now and when this Bill is considered in the Senate- even at that late stage- the Minister and the Government will consider the very substantial arguments advanced in respect of this group of people in the community. I am referring to those people who in many ways are least able to afford to carry the burden but who have to carry that burden and the thrust of this Government's economic policies. 
-I enter this debate to take up some of the points made by the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  and to say that, given the nature and the dimension of the problem of unemployment as it is in Australia today, nothing will justify to the young people of this community or to those who are unemployed the sorts of specious arguments that have just been advanced by the honourable member for Murray, although I believe that he was well motivated. I hope that honourable members on both sides of this chamber will realise that one of the really significant and great problems confronting not only Australia but also the Western industrialised capitalist society is the problem of unemployment. But it does not do me any good, it does not do the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  who is sitting at the table, any good and it does not do the 10,000 people iri my electorate who are unemployed any good to listen to the honourable member for Murray when his whole argument- we hear it time and time again in this place- was based not on a statement by this Government that it is concerned or that we as a nation have to confront this problem and deal with it now but on the old argument that something was done by the Whitlam Government in 1972 so it is all right for this Government to do it now. The reality of the situation, and I would be the first to say it, is that the Whitlam Government made mistakes and if we as a nation are to solve these problems we have to try to put aside that sort of hopeless, short-sighted political rhetoric. 
-There is no simple remedy and anybody who stands in this place and says that it is only a question of turning the lights on and the problems will be solved will be misleading not only himself but also the people of Australia. The sooner this Parliament says as a parliament that there is no simple remedy, that there is a deep and profound economic crisis right throughout the Western world which is affecting Australia, and that when it occurred the Whitlam Government was in office and its great tragedy and its great mistake was that it did not perceive either the nature or the dimension of what was occurring in Western society and continued to try to implement its program unconscious of the fact or unable to comprehend that the great boom in Western industrialised society was over the better it will be. The sooner honourable members on both sides of the chamber abandon the approach of saying that a Labor government did something in 1972 so it is all right for a government to do the same in 1978 the better it will be because there is a deep, significant economic crisis in Australia here and now, and we are not alone in that respect, and the first thing we have to say to ourselves is that there are no simple answers. 
I commend the approach of my colleagues, who have taken a very proper and legitimate point- a point that I commend to all honourable members in this place- that it ill-behoves this nation at this time to create a separate category for the unemployed in terms of social welfare payments because, as has been pointed out, of all the groups in this community the unemployed are in many cases, through no fault of then- own, in quite desperate economic circumstances. The fact is that unemployed people receive no fringe benefits at all. A member of parliament who wants to provide someone who is unemployed even with a minimal sort of a job to assist him will find that that person can receive only $6 before financial penalties are imposed. The expenses and the problems that are involved in having to find transport and postal expenses and clothing costs in connection with their work mean that as a social group within the community the unemployed are very much at the bottom of the economic scale. If we are serious in saying that they must be assisted to find work it is perfectly proper for unemployment benefit payments to be indexed in the same way as every other social welfare payment has been indexed. To date we have heard no argument at all from honourable members opposite which rejects this somewhat simple and fundamental principle of human justice. 
Again let me say how disappointed I am that the Government is taking what I believe is a short-sighted view. All the economic indicators show that the unemployment situation next year is going to be worse than it is this year. Anybody who has to give advice to young persons who are thinking of leaving school would, if he is sage enough, say that unless they have a job to go to they should stay at school. We know the problems that are going to confront us at the beginning of the next year and into the next financial year are unfortunately going to give us one of the highest levels of unemployment that this country has seen. I do not take any joy from that and honourable members on this side of the chamber do not take any joy from that. I do not believe that the Minister for Health, who is sitting at the table, takes any joy from that. But I do say that we have to ensure that the young people, the family breadwinners and the people who have worked for many years but who. are now being made redundant because of technological change are not placed in the situation in which, as has been pointed out by the honourable memberforBatman(Mr.Howe),manyofthem will be forced to live below the poverty line. Whatever view one takes of the great resources and the great riches of this Commonwealth one is entitled to say that, whatever our capacities or incapacities at government level, that there is no justification for any citizen in this community being forced to live below the poverty level. 
We know as a matter of certainty that by the act of supporting this legislation in this form we are going to condemn not merely thousands but possibly hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens to a situation in which in the next financial year they will be forced to live below the poverty line. This is the situation which, as a matter of conscience, we on this side of the chamber reject. It can be a matter of argument as to what the minimum level of the unemployment benefit ought to be, but there certainly can be no argument that it should be indexed. Let me commend to some of the philosophers or economists on the other side of the chamber the views of a man whom I would not say is a prominent economist but whose views would commend themselves to those who sit opposite. It was suggested on 9 September 1974 that as the number of jobless increased higher unemployment benefit should be paid. It was also suggested that the then government should pay the minimum wage of about $80 a week if the number of people out of work reached 250,000. That statement can be found in the  Daily Mirror  of 9 September 1974. The philosopher, the economist, the scholar who lauded that position was Malcolm Fraser, now the Prime Minister of Australia. I commend that thought to the simple souls that he now leads as a sentiment which, if it would do nothing else short of indexing the unemployment benefit I think that is the course that ought to be followed would provide some measure of economic relief to those hundreds of thousands of decent Australian citizens who want to work, who will not be able to get work and who, if we vote for this legislation in this form, will be forced to live below the poverty level in Australia in 1978. That is not a situation which can rest lightly on the consciences of honourable members of this chamber and it is a position which ought to be rejected when voting on this legislation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Question put: 
That clauses 45 and 46 be agreed to. 
-I briefly enter this debate to join issue on the matter which was dealt with by the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  namely, the operation of clause 15 of the Health Insurance Amendment Bill. I share the view of the honourable member for Batman, that the concept of the Government that a medical practitioner is to have cast upon him the obligation of determining whether a patient is socially and economically disadvantaged and should get the benefit of bulk billing is a concept which is not only impracticable but in many ways I believe socially offensive both to the patient and to the doctor. 
I do not have any problem and the Minister for Health should not have any problem about the concept of bulk billing. When I raised this matter with the Minister by way of question at a time when the Minister was talking about abolishing bulk billing the Minister said that he saw bulk billing, to use his terms, as almost a one-way ticket to the bank. That demonstrated- and I am bound to say this because clearly the Minister has had a change of heart- a clear misunderstanding on the part of the Minister as to how bulk billing in fact worked. It is perfectly true that some members of the medical profession could abuse that system but from my own experience and watching the situation in the inner industrial area of Melbourne those doctors and members of the medical profession who chose to bulk bill tended to be local general practitioners, men who simply took the view that they were more interested in medicine than in making large sums of money. Frankly, what happened was that the Government became their accountant because they knew that if they rendered a full bill to many of their patients they would never be paid in any event. 
No, but what I say to the Minister is this: In the view of the Government why should that medical practitioner, if he wants to make the legislation work, be placed in the situation of asking questions of patients A and B to determine whether they should be bulk billed but making a casual observation about patient C and saying: 'Obviously the poor man is so destitute that I do not have to ask this question'? It is a nonsense concept. I share the view expressed by the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe).  The view expressed by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  yesterday really related to the fact that in his moments of relaxation the Prime Minister might watch those television shows which deal with the old family doctor operating in a small rural hamlet or in a country town where he is intimately associated with not merely the medical condition of all the people who live there but also their social and economic problems. 
The reality of the situation is that in the inner industrial suburbs of Melbourne the trend is towards group practices, apart from the few occasional medical practitioners. Those group practices are highly commercial operations. If someone is ill, the day when one could pick up a telephone anywhere in Melbourne and within an hour or a couple of hours receive a visit from one's local general practitioner seems to have largely gone forever. What tends to happen is that one receives a visit from someone from a locum service who has no knowledge of the patient, who turns up without any medical records and whose only function is to provide an immediate medical judgment about the state of the patient's health. He arrives cold and he has none of that intimate personal background. That is the nature of medical practice in the large industrial and metropolitan areas of Melbourne. There may be some exceptions but that is the general rule. If a locum visits a large house under those circumstances does the Minister seriously expect him to conduct some sort of crossexamination as to the economic circumstances of the patient in order to determine whether the patient is socially disadvantaged? 
It would be about as good as some of the other points that the honourable gentleman would make. 
He could do that. 
I do not know that I would trust the honourable gentleman that far. One has to look at the reality of medical practice. I just believe that the situation would be far simpler if this Government accepted the concept of bulk billing and then left it to those members of the medical profession who chose to bulk bill. Some will choose to bulk bill, given the nature of their practices, and some will not. But let then make the choice. It seems to me to be absurd to say that if a medical practitioner arrives at a house at 10 o'clock at night he must make some sort of a judgment about whether the family is socially disadvantaged. It is not going to work. It is going to create just as many problems- more problems- than existed previously. I honestly believe that the great bulk of medical practitioners who chose to bulk bill did not cheat on the system. The Minister has never produced any evidence at all to this House to show that they did cheat on the system. 
The honourable member opposite knows better than any other honourable member in this House that there is a great deal of evidence to show that the fact that it was known that a general practitioner bulk billed meant that many socio-economic groups who are seriously deprived in this community and who would not otherwise have sought medical assistance and advice chose bulk billing and received it. The view of doctors who provided bulk billing in all those cases was that it brought about a general raising of the medical health care standards of those communities. The honourable member who has just interjected was with me when we received evidence on that very matter in an area as remote as Bourke in the middle of New South Wales with regard to the treatment of Aboriginal people. He was told, as I was told, by medical practitioners that the fact that bulk billing was there meant that Aboriginal people who did not have money in their pockets could with confidence go along and get medical treatment. 
-Let me write it on to the record. Here is a group of people with a sick child in need of treatment. They go along to a doctor, who says to members of this Parliament that the facility for bulk billing raises the general level of health care of Aboriginal people; and the best that the honourable gentleman opposite can do as a spokesman for the Liberal Party is to say: Where do they get their grog?' The answer is that they get it in the nearest hotel under circumstances that are far less favourable than those in which members of the Liberal Party in this House got it last night. That is the answer. 
They get it under circumstances which are far less favourable than the circumstances under which members of this House got it last night. The honourable gentleman only has to look at  Hansard  to know what I am talking about. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member for Melbourne Ports will address the Chair and the honourable member for Petrie will stop interjecting. 
It is a pity that the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  chooses to demean this debate in the way he has. I will leave it at that. I simply say this: I take the point that was made by the honourable member for Batman and I want to make one further point. It seems to me to be absolutely extraordinary that Government members have constantly refused, for all sorts of reasons, to adopt a principle whereby members of this Parliament will fully disclose their means and assets on a public register, but are perfectly happy to say to the lower income groups of this community: 'In order to receive the most basic medical treatment you have to go along and disclose - 
And the honourable member is corrupt. They have to go along to members of the medical profession and disclose all their assets. 
How else does one determine whether somebody is disadvantaged? 
I will yield to the Minister and I invite him to inform the House of the precise criteria and the objective standards which a busy medical practitioner has to apply in determining whether somebody is socially disadvantaged. 
What are the criteria? 
I have read the second reading speech. What I am saying is that I find it extraordinary that a government which has refused time after time, and still refuses, to adopt the concept of any form of public disclosure of the means and assets of people standing for public office, of Ministers of the Crown or of senior public servants, still says that for a person to receive basic medical treatment an assessment of him has to be made by a medical practitioner. He might be a perfectly well qualified doctor but what gives him any greater perception to make a judgment about that? 
The concept of bulk billing was a convenience for those doctors who chose to bulk bill completely because it was an accountancy service. That was the reason that many of them bulk billed. To import into this matter the ingredient that the Minister has imported into it creates new criteria. How does the Government expect a medical practitioner to say: 'The honourable member for Petrie obviously is socially disadvantaged and I will bulk bill him but the Minister is not disadvantaged so I will render him a full fee '? I would be delighted if the Minister would inform the House of the sorts of criteria that he expects busy members of the medical profession - 
The honourable member for Petrie is clearly intellectually disadvantaged. He would be bulk billed by any member of the medical profession from whom he ever sought treatment. I concede that he has no problem. Let us deal with the others who may not. 
What I am saying to the Minister is that the system was so much simpler before because the proposed criteria was not applied to members of the medical profession. They adopted a position which worked and worked well. It provided the basis of many community health services. I believe that basically the members of the medical profession who were involved in the previous scheme worked with honesty and great integrity. The Minister has not produced any evidence to this House to show otherwise. I would therefore suggest that to import the kind of criteria that the Minister is importing is to create standards which will not be workable in practice and which will lead to just as many opportunities for those members of the medical profession who wish to abuse the system. In the final analysis the Government's new scheme perpetuates the concept of some Australians being second class citizens in terms of their right to receive medical treatment. I would suggest that if Medibank did nothing else it abolished that concept. I think the sooner we get away from the concept of some citizens being second class citizens and it is out of the hands of members of the medical profession to determine whether they will be bulk billed the better it will be. 
-In this morning's Melbourne  Age  the  Deputy  Prime Minister of Australia  (Mr Anthony)  was quoted as saying that as far as this Government is concerned neither the Aboriginal people, whom he saw as a manipulated minority, nor anyone else in Australia will interfere with the Government's determination to mine uranium. From the time the Government decided to mine uranium it was inevitable that a time would come when the concerns of the Aboriginal people about their land rights and the environment would conflict with the perceived policy of the Government. I think it was clear to all that we would hear the statement that was made this morning by the  Deputy  Prime Minister. There is nothing new or novel about it. What is interesting - 
I enter the adjournment debate very briefly to support the views and the principles expressed by the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  so that at least two views are before the Parliament to indicate the way the explanations given by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  in the Parliament today are regarded as unsatisfactory. I believe, as does the honourable member for Perth and I feel many other honourable members in this House, that there are no second class citizens in Australia. When our own national airline offers a service to the people of Australia or any person wanting to fly overseas, we are not going to be stood over, intimidated or forced to accept the principle that Australian citizens will be refused the right to transit on our own international airline by virtue of their religion or place of origin. I believe that the maintenance of that principle is a matter of primary concern to this Parliament. 
I appreciate the fact that Qantas Airways Ltd is concerned to maintain an air fleet and is concerned with the problems that are imposed upon it by nations which state that if Qantas wishes to fly over their air space it has to land at least once a week on their terms. I can understand all these problems but it does seem to me that it is far more important for this Parliament to say clearly to the Minister for Transport so that he will say to Qantas that, given the nature of Australian society- it is a nation that has people drawn from many origins and religious beliefs, or none- as a nation state operating internationally there is no way we will accept a position where we will be told that any Australian citizen who seeks to fly out of Australia to anywhere in the world will have his rights restricted by the views of another nation state in terms of its perceived view of a religious belief or of a political belief. I believe that that principle is far more important than the administrative problems of Qantas. 
I do not believe that this Parliament can do anything other than express, in the strongest possible terms, to the Minister for Transport that it believes that no person should be refused passage on Qantas flights on the basis of his religion or his origin in order to comply with the attitude of foreign governments. I appreciate the view expressed by the Minister for Transport today that Qantas has an obligation to ensure the safety of its passengers, but when we have to choose between the safety of passengers and those nation states that say that a Qantas flight cannot land at their airports because an Australian citizen is on board who happens to have a belief in the Jewish faith - 
I do not know how Qantas determines that. I do not know what happens if a Qantas flight arrives in the country and has an Australian national on board - 
That is a pity. The other clock shows that I have at least a minute left. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, at some stage can we have the clock adjusted? I was watching the other one. 
The debate is to be extended for 10 minutes. I have only a minute remaining. 
Can the Clerks at the table adjust the clocks so that honourable members will not find themselves in the sort of situation in which I find myself? 
-In the course of this Committee debate thus far, the very serious and important points made by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  about the extent of the crisis that exists in Australian society in terms of the unemployment level and the failure of this Government to meet this problem have gone unanswered. There have been two contributions from Government members. Let me deal with the latter of these, the speech of the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr N. A. Brown).  I say to the honourable member with candour and without being personal that I am tired of the sorts of allegations which have almost become part of the mythology of members of the Liberal Party. When we are looking at the problem of unemployment the people they always blame are those who are at the lower level of the socioeconomic strata in our society. If only the metal workers, the plumbers, the builders, the carpenters or the other tradesmen would accept a little less it would be all right. I have grown used to listening to that sort of advocacy from the honourable member for Diamond Valley, who, with respect to him, has a professional capacity. The honourable gentleman is a full time professional legal advocate for employers' interests in the industrial courts of this country. I have no doubt that he has enjoyed all the increases which have taken place in legal fees over the last five years. It is extraordinary how it is all right for members of the legal profession to accept substantial and significant increases which are beyond the comprehension of the average tradesman. 
All I am saying to the honourable gentleman is that when he is not sitting in this Parliament he is spending his time as an industrial advocate for the employers. Tonight he confused his functions. He need not come into the chamber and say: 'Now I am talking to you objectively. I have put on my other hat. I am now the honourable member for Diamond Valley'. This attitude was reflected also by the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr).  Who did he blame for the unemployment situation?  His  speech was an extraordinary hotchpotch. First of all he blamed the teachers. If only the teachers had been teaching the kids the right things there would not be as many unemployed. Then he blamed the married women. 
Can the honourable member not take it? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)- 
That is not a point of order. 
The honourable member for Wilmot was concerned to blame first of all the teachers. When he finished with them it was the fault of the trade unions. He put this argument less eloquently because he is less of a professional advocate than the honourable member for Diamond Valley. He also got stuck into the married women. Somehow, if married women were not in the work force it would all be better. 
I listened very carefully. The problem with honourable gentlemen opposite is that like those who thus far have spoken in this debate they are absolutely limited by their own prejudices and attitudes. The breakdown of wealth in Australia is as follows: The top 5 per cent owns over 20 per cent of the wealth of this community; the middle 45 per cent owns 60 per cent of the wealth and the lowest 50 per centthat is one half of Australia's society- owns less than 15 per cent of the wealth. Whenever honourable gentlemen opposite talk about the crisis in the economic system all the burden, responsibility and blame is always put on the lower 50 per cent of the community. Day after day in this place the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and those who follow him put all the blame for inflation on that 50 per cent. They are told that if they want a greater share of the cake they are somehow acting in a way that is either immoral or irresponsible. 
I suggest to the honourable gentleman that he said very clearly- he was a clear advocate of this in the Parliament tonight, although he might try to move away from itthat increases in wages are related to the level of unemployment in this community. That is part of his mythology. I am not saying this in a personal sense to the honourable member for Diamond Valley; I am saying it in the context of the sort of social class interest that he continually represents. I venture to suggest that he has never forgone any increase in his professional fees, but he is prepared to say that if those people in the Australian community who comprise the 50 per cent who own the least would only forgo increases in their wages, then the problems would be solved. 
I will get back to the Minister.  His  turn is coming. That is part of the mythology of this Government. It is reflected daily in the attitude of the Prime Minister. It is a factor which constantly runs through the Government 's economic philosophy. The monetarist theory which is being pursued by this Government at the present time will not solve the unemployment problem; it will increase it. That is the point which was made by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  earlier today. That point will remain unanswered by the Minister, as it has remained unanswered by government members opposite. 
What are the dimensions of the problem at which we are looking? In August this year an estimated 332,800 people were unemployed and looking for full time work. They represent 6.2 per cent of the full time labour force. Another 63,200 people were unemployed and looking for part time work. They represent 6.3 per cent of the part time labour force. The real situation is far worse than the formal statistics suggest. Many people have given up looking for work because they know that none is available. Thousands of young people, married women and men approaching retiring age have simply dropped out of the labour force. Over the past two and a half years the number of involuntary retirements from the work force has been of the order of 250,000. The real level of unemployment in Australia is therefore close to 650,000 people. This level of unemployment strikes disproportionately at those most vulnerable to social and economic disruption- the poor, the unskilled and semiskilled, members of certain ethnic groups. The worst hit will be our young people. 
When one examines the estimates for this Department- they are simply a reflection of this Government's total economic strategy- one sees that they contain nothing which will go anywhere near solving the economic problems that exist in this society. So long as this Government continues with the sort of perpetual political handouts which are made on an almost daily basis by the Prime Minister and by his Ministers, so long as a disproportionate amount of blame is placed upon the work force of this community and upon the trade union movement, so long as the Government is engaged on an almost daily basis in attacks upon the trade union movement, I do not believe that there is any way at all that what is contained in these estimates will go anywhere near solving the problem. 
This Government is absolutely devoid of anything resembling a coherent manpower policy. It is locked into a mythical view of how the private enterprise system works. It might well find that that view would have been relevant in the 1890s; it will certainly not be relevant, given the economic problems we will have to face, in the 1980s. Perhaps at some stage we as a community will have to face up to the very real problem that economic systems have to meet the needs of people who live in a society and that people do not have to be made to conform to the prevailing economic system by way of the creation of huge dole queues. This system is in a considerable state of crisis. What is needed is for a far more realistic and far more rational discussion to take place than we are likely to have in this Parliament. That is perceived and understood by thousands of working people throughout Australia. Certainly nothing has emanated from the Government side of the House which will give them confidence and there is nothing in these estimates which will give them confidence. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)- 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr N. A. BROWN (Diamond Valley)-Mr  Deputy Chairman,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
I relate my remarks on the defence estimates particularly to divisions 234 and 235, which deal with equipment and stores. There is an estimate in excess of $600m for this financial year; that is to say, it is going to cost this nation over $ 10m a week for equipment and stores for our defence forces. If we as a nation are to possess a selfreliant defence capability, in my view we must also have a defence industry policy. At the moment we have neither. This Government, like many others, has been faced by huge increases in the costs of the latest defence equipment. The Army's new Leopard tanks, which were made in Germany, cost over Sim each. The Navy's FFG7 frigates now under construction in the United States cost over $207m each. If, as generally tipped, the Royal Australian Air Force's new fighter is to be the FI 5 Eagle we are looking at an outlay of $20m each. The costs are huge and, on one view, are appropriate for a super power. The broader policy question which has been raised by other speakers in this estimates debate is whether these types of purchases necessarily represent the best value for our money. That is a question which I believe we as a parliament have to pursue on another occasion when there is more time, but I certainly share the views which have been expressed by other speakers from both sides of the chamber with respect to these defence estimates. 
I raise these cost factors now simply to point out the huge outlays involved in the purchasing of expensive and sophisticated overseas hardware which may be more than appropriate to our immediate defence needs. Certainly they come at a time when there is no coherent Government policy aimed at developing a technology and a capacity for our own defence industries. What is more important, from my recent experiences in dealing with the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen),  I doubt quite seriously whether the internal bureaucracy of the Department of Defence is capable of assessing or is responsive to the development of a significant input for the formulation of a manufacturing policy related to defence industries. Perhaps one swallow does not make a summer, but I want to indicate to the Committee my experiences in this matter. 
On 17 August 1978 I raised during a Grievance Debate the future of the Australian Government Engine Works at Port Melbourne. This engine works specialises in the production of low frequency marine engines. I will not repeat the arguments that I produced on that occasion. I indicated the importance and the history of this marine workshop. Suffice it to say that an all party parliamentary committee- I refer to the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence which reported in October 1977- made a specific recommendation in respect of the engine works. At page 191 of the report it is stated: 
The Committee recommends also that the possible retention of the Australian Government Engine Works at Port Melbourne should be included in the expert group's field of examination- The Committee stated quite categorically: that in the meantime no disposal or leasing action should be taken that would jeopardise the ability of the AGEW facility to produce large diesel engines. The Committee regards retention of that ability to be just as important as maintenance of hull construction ability and would fully support any negotiated arrangement with an appropriate overseas firm that would ensure continued operation of the facility. 
I believe that when an all party parliamentary committee makes a recommendation of that kind, it is not good enough for the recommendation just to be put to one side and for any department to say: 'We will go ahead and close down the engine works. It does not matter'. It matters a great deal, having regard to the relationship that ought properly to exist between parliamentary committees, members of this Parliament and relevant Government departments and bureaucracies. There are two departments involved: The Department of Industry and Commerce and the Department of Productivity. I believe that the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  has been responsive to the suggestions that these engine works ought to be maintained. Part of the problem is that there is a view within the Defence Department that says: 'Well, while we might like to see these engine works retained, we do not believe they have any immediate defence relevance'. 
-Well, that is the Department's view. It may be a well informed view. It may well be a considered view. In the light of the fact that it seems to predominate over the recommendations of the all-party parliamentary committee, and the fact that it is a view that affects substantially the future of a very important factory in Port Melbourne- it certainly affects a large number of people who, over the years, have built up technologies and skills which I do not want to see dissipated- I asked the Minister for Defence, very properly and respectfully, I believe, to make that file available. I do not know whether the bureaucrats in the Defence Department regard government files as eggs they have to sit on and hatch or whether they believe they ought not to be made available to members whose constituents are vitally affected. I wrote to the Minister on 26 September, within a month of raising the matter in Parliament, asking for the relevant files to be made available. On 9 October I actually got a reply acknowledging my letter and stating that the Minister would examine the matter. My problem is that, apart from this letter of acknowledgement, there is no indication that the file will be made available. 
Last week there was a leaked report written by the Minister's favourite journalist in his favourite newspaper, which indicated that an internal Defence Department report reviewing naval technical services had severely criticised the national defence preparedness of the Navy. Amongst the allegations made in that report- I point out that it is an internal Defence Department report, not a Labor Party report or a Liberal Party reportwas a statement that, firstly, the Navy was not aware of local shipbuilding capabilities. Secondly- this is one of the specific examples cited- one Canberra based engineer was engaged in problem solving on patrol boat engines who had never seen a real patrol boat, let alone an engine. I ask the Minister: Is that fact? Are these allegations true? Either that statement is made in the report or it is not. If it is made, it is a matter of fact, it is a serious allegation and it ought to be answered. Certainly, from my point of view, and I can assure the Committee that my view is shared by other honourable members, the facilities of the Australian Government Engine Works ought not to be lightly disbanded. 
The suggestion that within the Defence Department there is not the capacity to make the recommendations that the Australian Government Engine Works is of defence relevance is very serious indeed. It is either true or false. If it is false, the Parliament should be informed of that at the earliest possible time, but if it is true- 
No. I am concerned to see that whatever capacity exists or whatever facts are on those files ought to be made available to me or to any other honourable member who is concerned to examine the position. The Defence Department cannot have it both ways. If it says the Australian Government Engine Works does not have a great defence relevance, obviously there is nothing in the file that can be classified. If the file is made available then the basis of the Department's recommendations and reasoning can be fully examined. I believe that my request- other members may be interested in this matter- ought now to be regarded as a matter of some urgency and seriousness by the Minister and his Department. I assure the Committee that I propose to pursue this matter because, like many other honourable members in this place, I am far from satisfied that we as Australian citizens are getting the best value for our dollar in terms of this country's defence preparedness. 
I direct my remarks to division 175 which concerns the operation of the Australian Legal Aid Office. I begin by expressing my condemnation at the altered guidelines for the operation of legal aid announced in this chamber today but outlined earlier to the Australian people by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  in the Senate. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his 1975 policy speech again entered a clear and unequivocal convenant with the Australian people. On behalf of himself and his party and all honourable members opposite he said: 
We shall ensure that no person is denied legal aid because of lack of means. 
-Except I believe that the average Australian citizen is entitled to accept the word or should be entitled to accept the word of his Prime Minister. No one was forcing the Prime Minister when he made that statement. It is an important reflection on the general trend and the general attitude of this Government. The altered guidelines constitute a mean and contemptible breach of that promise. It means that thousands of Australian citizens are currently being denied their legal rights. The new guidelines mean that legal aid will be more difficult to obtain. The Government and the Attorney-General are aware of the seriousness of that situation. The figures are presented at page 296 of the  Hansard  of Senate Estimates Committee B. At the end of September, the stockpile for Victoria amounted to $245,629. That is, citizens whose legal rights and whose applications had been approved and had been dealt with were simply awaiting an allocation of funds. When one compares that figure of $245,629 with the November allocation of $205,000 the new allocation for November will be $40,000 short for dealing with present applications. That virtually means that the people in Victoria are being denied legal aid point blank. By the end of October there will be a backlog of between 1,500 and 2,400 cases. That is placing an intolerable burden on voluntary legal services. 
People on criminal charges because of a lack of means are not being represented at all and that, I believe, represents a fairly serious restriction in terms of civil rights and civil liberties being dealt with in accordance with the due process of law. It also means that many other citizens who find themselves in the process of litigation against corporate structures, local government bodies and statutory authorities and who need legal aid will also be considerably disadvantaged. 
Any time the honourable member wants it I would be only too happy to assist him. If one looks at the new guidelines one finds that their effect has been virtually to destroy the real concept of legal aid. In 1975 under the Whitlam Government the income guidelines were $60 disposable weekly earnings plus $20 for the first dependant and $15 for each additional dependant. Under this Government that has been reduced to $50 plus $15 for the first dependant and $10 for the second and following dependants. Thus in 1 975 a person with a disposable income of $95 and two dependants qualified for legal aid. Now the cut-off point is $75. In that time wages have increased and social security payments have increased despite the attitude of this Government. 
In evidence given to Senate Estimates Committee B it was pointed out that a large proportion of even the existing allocation of fundsand there has been no significant increase- is absorbed by increased legal fees and charges. There have been increases in the cost of documents such as birth certificates which a couple of years ago in Victoria could be obtained for $ 1 but which now cost $10. There has also been an increase in legal service fees. Stamp duties have gone up. However, there has not been any substantial increase in the overall Budget allocation. The cut-back is not merely in terms of those persons who are entitled or who were formerly entitled to receive legal aid. The cut-back is more significant than that because what funds there are have to be spread further by virtue of increased legal fees. 
It has to be conceded that the guidelines drawn by the Government are now so narrow that even those living below the poverty line in Australia do not necessarily qualify for legal aid. I ask the Committee to consider the enormity of that position. 
My honourable friend the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  is a man of some sympathy in these matters. I refer him to a statement made at page 299 of Senate Estimates B on 13 October.  Senator Evans  put this question: 
Is it any longer possible to say that a person whose sole income is derived from social service benefits or who satisfies the updated Henderson poverty test would, generally speaking, now be granted legal aid? 
That is a simple and a direct question. What was the answer by an officer of the AttorneyGeneral 's Department? The officer stated: 
The short answer to that is no. This whole matter is now being looked at in the Attorney-General 's review. 
I invite the honourable member to consider the enormity of that statement. Citizens who through no fault of their own are living below the poverty line in Australia will no longer automatically qualify for legal aid as a result of the action of this Government to refuse to honour its promises. 
I am told by honourable gentlemen sitting opposite shaking their heads that it is not right. Are they suggesting that officers of the Attorney-General's Department deliberately misled the Senate? Are they suggesting that when an officer provided on behalf of the Government is asked a simple, blunt and direct question at a Senate Estimates committee that officer is either so casual or so careless that he gives an answer which is either deliberately false or untrue? 
-Of course that is not the situation. The honourable gentleman is bleating because he is guilty. He knows what.this Government has done to legal aid. 
I will be delighted to hear what the honourable gentleman has to say. I am prepared to accept the fact that when a responsible officer of the Attorney-General's Department gives an answer to a Senate Estimates committee that answer is truthful and accurate. I believe that is what happened. If one looks at the situation one-can see that guilt has motivated the honourable gentleman and that is why he is bleating and screaming. Wherever one looks, the priorities of this Government are sadly out of context. 
It has been conceded again by the AttorneyGeneral's Department that over 80 per cent of funds allocated for legal aid are expended in the family law jurisdiction. It is now proposed there be severe cutbacks in the operation of that jurisdiction. People will be provided with a level of legal aid until such time as the defence is filed and then a determination will be made, whether they will continue to receive legal aid and, if so, the extent of it. It is bad when someone is encouraged into a litigation process on the basis that they will be receiving legal aid and then to chop off that legal aid half way through those proceedings. This is what is going to occur in the area of family law. What an extraordinary thing it is for the Government to be changing the guidelines in respect of the operation of family law when only a few weeks ago we established an all-party parliamentary committee to look at the operation of family law. I would have thought that the rights of people to legal aid under the Family Law Act are a major factor. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Hon. Ian Robinson)-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I want to raise for the attention of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  his representative in this place and, indeed, the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar),  a serious situation which has developed in many schools in my electorate and, I suspect, in many schools in Victoria where there are pupils with ethnic backgrounds. The problems arise out of new criteria which have been adopted by the Federal Department of Education working in conjunction with State education authorities in Victoria. These new criteria apply to the provision of migrant English teachers in State schools. I understand that the adoption of the new criteria involves the acceptance of the principle that if a child, irrespective of his background, has been in a school for two years the presumption is that he is able to handle the English language. The net effect of this new policy with these new criteria is that in many schools where children of ethnic and migrant background are being educated there will be an overall reduction in the number of teachers available to teach English to such students. 
Just by way of example I refer to the result of these new criteria in one school in my electorate. The Albert Park High School has 830 pupils, 450 of whom have Greek as a native tongue and 60 per cent of whom are of Greek nationality. The effect of these new criteria will be to reduce the existing number of migrant teachers from three full-time and two part-time teachers to two fulltime teachers and one part-time teacher. Having produced this result, it is somewhat cynically hoped that teachers and pupils will have to make do. The effect of this policy- obviously it flows from the Budget cuts in respect of education- is simply to discriminate selectively against children of migrant or ethnic backgrounds. It seems to me that if one looks at the history of many of these children one will find that they began their schooling in our system with considerable handicaps. There would be very few schools in the inner suburbs of Melbourne where the student population- in some cases it is 60 per cent and in some cases it is as high as 80 per cent- has English as the mother tongue. 
It is of vital importance that the rate of funding, which has been produced by the Commonwealth over a number of years, should not be reduced. In very few of these schools- I challenge the Minister for Education to name one such school- in any of the inner suburban areas of Melbourne the provision of English migrant teachers meets the very real demands for educational service of children of migrant and ethnic background who are trying to be educated. The effect of this cutback, therefore, is to reduce existing staff. Teachers who have been with schools are now being taken out of those schools. This, I think, unfairly discriminates against children of ethnic origin who have substantial educational handicaps. This new policy, which might be good in theory and might be tailored to meet the needs of this Government to cut back in spending, has the net effect in the classrooms of adding substantially to the burden of teachers who are retained in such schools. It reduces the level of educational teaching to children of one social grouping, namely, children of ethnic and migrant backgrounds. I believe it is a retrograde step- a step that is to be deplored. I have no doubt that other honourable members representing electorates in the inner heart of Melbourne will receive the same sort of complaints not merely from teachers, many of whom are talking strike action, but also from the leaders of ethnic communities who no longer are prepared to allow their children to be treated as second-rate citizens. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
I did sign it and I am proud to have signed it. If I and other signatories to the document that the honourable member for Tangney  (Mr Shack)  was so upset about have to compare our track record in the area of foreign policy with the track record of the honourable member or honourable members on the other side, I do not have any lack of pride. Indeed, with my colleagues, I am used to being called a communist dupe and a wolf in sheep's clothing by honourable members opposite. Let us look at the track record and at the history of this situation. When we as members of the Labor Party as long ago as 10 or 15 years advocated the recognition of the People's Republic of China we were told that we were traitors. We were told that we were communists. We were told that we were communist dupes. As recently as three or four years ago, when the then Leader of the Opposition, Gough Whitlam, had been to China, and the then Minister for External Affairs sought the right to go to China, he was refused permission by a Liberal Prime Minister. That was only a matter of a few years ago. Why was he refused permission? It was because we were accused of being dupes. Now we cannot turn around without hearing that the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  is waving a red flag, putting a line in terms of the position of China which the average member of the Labor Party regards as being somewhat chauvinistic. We cannot turn around without hearing that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who also called members of the Labor Party communists and dupes, is walking around China looking like an American tourist with a bundle of cameras around his neck, almost singing  The East is Red.  That is the track record of honourable gentlemen opposite. 
Let us look at this matter in terms of our relations with our so-called neighbours in the Far East. I was also called a communist by people such as the honourable member for Tangney when I and thousands of other decent Australian citizens said that we were opposed to the war in Vietnam, we were opposed to Australia being in a situation of supporting and trying to uphold a corrupt and decadent regime. We were opposed to the policy of honourable gentlemen opposite, whose party on that occasion was distributing pamphlets around Australia which said 'Better to stop them there than have them come here', with a great red arrow pointing to China. The honourable member for Tangney and some of the war heroes on that side, who were all young enough to serve, were perfectly happy to conscript Australian youth to fight in that immoral war. He was perfectly happy to give them that choice or put them in gaol. When I consider the record of the people who signed that document, it is music to my ears when I listen to the pious nonsense of the honourable member for Tangney. Suddenly this Government has discovered that it can have trade relations with China. All the things we were saying five years ago, which were rejected with the same vehemence, the same platitudes and the same rhetoric by the honourable member for Tangney are now all right. 
The honourable member for Bendigo is another one. Give him a Chinese flag and he will stand up and chant  The East is Red  with no problems at all. But five years ago the honourable member was prepared to attack members of the Labor Party and accuse us of being spies and traitors. The very things that we stood for then have been proved historically to be correct. As to this document which I and others signed, I make no apology at all for it. 
It is all right for the honourable gentleman opposite. As far as he is concerned, he talks about democracy in this Parliament but he is prepared to stand up and support any puppet regime, any corrupt regime, any dictatorial regime so long as it says it is anticommunist. It was precisely that position that allowed a conservative government to drag Australia and young Australians, many of whom now lie dead as a result of its view of foreign policy, into Vietnam. Their blood is on this Government's hands, let there be no doubt about that, and the moral responsibility is on its hands. They are the guilty men. But this Government did not save the corrupt regimes which it was trying to bolster in South East Asia. As to what is happening today in South East Asia, the signatures on this document simply witness the fact that there are regimes which are endeavouring to hold back the course of social change and social revolution in South East Asia. 
Does the honourable gentleman believe that the Government of the Philippines is a democratic government? Does he believe that it is a government whose policies in terms of the administration of public funds and the distribution of the wealth of the community are policies that are admirable and that he can support? 
I am not going to take up the whole of my time in this way. I presume that simply because these regimes profess to be anticommunist this Government is prepared to turn a blind eye to the fact that there are great movements for social change sweeping through South East Asia and that the poor of South East Asia are determined to have their slice of the real wealth of their own communities. One cannot hold back social revolution in these countries by supporting corrupt and reactionary regimes. It is as simple as that. If honourable members opposite did not learn that lesson from Vietnam they will never learn. 
If we look at the situation of our near neighbours in Indonesia, does the honourable gentleman not believe that the whole social structure, the whole economic structure is basically upheld by a military regime which is certainly dictatorial and has certainly shown a capacity to arrest, to imprison and to kill people with whom it disagrees? 
One could spend a great deal of time referring to different countries. I have only 10 minutes in which to speak. The only point I am concerned to make is that the sort of contribution made by the honourable member for Tangney simplifies the position in South-East Asia. He used the old cold war rhetoric which divides Asia into goodies and baddies. 
I would not like the honourable member for a friend. I do not know what sort of an enemy he is. It is a simplistic view to divide complex communities with historic differences which are now starting to emerge between Vietnam and China and Vietnam and Cambodia. This is the view that Government members ascribe to the whole of South-East Asia on the basis that countries are either communist or anti-communist. On that basis they predetermine their position. The nature of the regime does not matter nor do its economic policies. It does not matter what its attitude is towards political democracy or social change in South-East Asia. The simple-minded gentlemen opposite think that all one has to do is ask: 'Are they goodies or baddies?' They use the old cold war rhetoric. If countries are goodies and say that they are anti-communist that is okay. We can join in any sort of military alliance. 
Up to this time this debate has been characterised by the absence of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  participating in it and giving the House the benefit of his knowledge and wisdom. It has been characterised by the traditional approach of back bench members of the Liberal Party, who have presented an argument based on error, untruths and hypocrisy with all sorts of pious hypocritical assertions based essentially not on the facts of the dispute in the fuel industry but on their prejudices and upon their own lack of knowledge of the trade union movement and more importantly their own lack of knowledge of industrial relations. Let us deal with the facts of this situation because it is time that they were produced and put to this House. One of the central ingredients in this industrial dispute is that following the decision in the Moore v. Doyle case the transport workers in Victoria operate under two awards. It would be interesting to know the view of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations on that because it is one of the biggest single problems bedevilling industrial relations in this nation. What is the result of that and how does it affect this situation? It affects it in a very fundamental way. It means that oil tanker drivers operating under a federal award get a higher rate of pay than drivers operating under a State award. 
What are the facts of this case? It is a matter of great regret to me that the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  and the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  not once referred to the facts. Industrial disputes do not just blow up overnight. The average tanker driver, the average transport worker, does not want to be involved in an industrial stoppage prior to Christmas. He has the same obligations as every other citizen in the community. He wants to avoid a stoppage if he can. 
The problem with the honourable gentleman is that he suffers from political halitosis. Every time he opens his mouth one can see his prejudices- and they are vile. How did this situation occur? If the honourable gentlemen opposite had done their homework they would have found that when  Mr Gorman  was invited to open a depot which had been closed for some five months and to which oil was being delivered by tanker drivers who were operating under a federal award he was told by Esso Australia Limited that it believed that the Transport Workers Union would not oppose his use of his own trucks. My investigations show that that is true. Unfortunately, what was not pointed out to  Mr Gorman  was that, whatever trucks he was using, the Transport Workers Union would expect  Mr Gorman  to continue what had become the practice in the industry and pay his men the federal award. There was no argument about the use of his own men. There never was any argument about that. The argument was about whether they should be paid under the federal award. From the point of view of the union 
That is right. I am delighted with the honourable gentleman's logic. Let us just try to analyse rationally the ingredients of this important industrial dispute. From the point of view of the TWU this work was being offered at lower wages than had previously applied. It is as simple as that. Is it remarkable for a trade union secretary who finds himself in that situation to say: 'You can do the work if you want to but it must be done under the terms of the federal award'? That is the central ingredient of this dispute.  Mr Gorman  said that he would operate under the provisions of the State award. What then occurred, of course, was the imposition of a black ban. If the honourable member for Franklin knew anything about industrial relations he would know that it is common right throughout industry for black bans to be applied. I would think that in the course of any one week many dozens of black bans would be imposed at various levels. That, of course, creates the ingredients for an industrial dispute which is then able to go before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to be resolved. There is nothing new about that. I think that this matter could have been resolved at that stage because the differences between the parties are not differences between city workers and country workers, as has been suggested. It is perfectly true that all the men involved are members of the one union. It is essentially an argument about maintaining the provisions of a federal award in a situation in which a federal award had previously maintained. They are the facts. 
What complicated what was essentially a narrow, localised industrial dispute which had all the ingredients to make it easily able to be settled, taking into account the advice of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, was the fact that writs were issued under the provisions of the Trade Practices Act. Any employer knows, as a result of statements made by the Australian Council of Trade Unions, and of warnings issued in this House, that if writs are issued which threaten unions with penalties of $250,000 and which threaten decent Australian unionists with having their houses taken away from them they will produce a massive confrontation. That has occurred. Yet honourable gentlemen opposite have said that it is a terrible thing for the union to suggest that the writs ought to be withdrawn.  Mr Hodgson  has made his position perfectly clear. He has indicated that if the writs are withdrawn the matter can be then settled through the due process of negotiation. Of course, in the minds of honourable gentlemen opposite,  Mr Hodgson's  suggestion is equivalent to a mortal sin. What a terrible thing it is for  Mr Hodgson  to say that these writs ought to be withdrawn as a condition precedent to the settling of an industrial dispute! 
In this morning's  Australian Financial Review  it is reported that the Premier of Victoria, in an endeavour to get this dispute settled, has called the parties into conference. The report states: 
.  Mr Hamer  would be attempting to have the writs withdrawn so that the strike could end immediately, leaving the question of the TWU ban on  Mr Gorman's  tankers to be resolved during further discussions. 
That is the situation. The Leader of the Liberal Party in Victoria is acting with a little more responsibility than the two backward back bench members we have heard today and with a little more responsibility than the silent Minister who slinks out of the House and does not get involved in this matter of pressing industrial relations. The Premier of Victoria is acting in a way which I commend because it seems to me to be pretty reasonable and pretty intelligent. This dispute can be over in 24 hours. It can be over if  Mr Gorman  says: 'I withdraw the writs'. The matter would then go through the normal process of conciliation and arbitration. The question of where the conspiracy lies is an interesting one. There are people in this community who cannot wait - 
There are people in this community who are almost as unintelligent as the honourable member for Hotham. 
I am for every working man, every citizen in this community, having the same right as the honourable gentleman opposite to defend his working conditions. If the honourable gentleman were paid for results, he would be the biggest dole bludger in the Commonwealth. Let the facts rest as they are. 
It was invented in the thinktanks of the Liberal Party. The Liberal Party invented it and it can wear it. If it wants to walk away from it, it can do so. This dispute can be ended within 24 hours but it will not be ended in terms of the nonsense that has been spoken in this House. The ingredients are there. The dispute can be settled. In the interests of this nation it ought to be settled. 
I support the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  who pointed out that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was guilty of grave hypocrisy at Question Time today when he was prepared to spend so much time canvassing the issues of the State Conference of the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Party. I ask the Prime Minister, when he raises issues of civil liberties and human freedom to come into this House with clean hands. If he had clean hands he would have spent some time looking at the internal affairs of the Liberal Party of Australia and its State Conference in Victoria. The events there were not matters of which any true Liberal could be proud. Two members of the Liberal Party, who had the confidence of that Party to the degree that they were endorsed candidates for office and had been elected to Parliament, because they were not prepared to subscribe to the degree of corruption, abuse of public office and use of office for personal gain- five members of the Liberal Government in Victoria- were subjected to a kangaroo court and were expelled from the party. As was pointed out by the honourable member for Melbourne, one of those members was given five minutes in which to defend himself. Prior to the actual expulsion, a member of this House, the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  went on the public record as saying what the result would be. Not only did he say that but also he said that the Prime Minister was fully informed at every point. I refer honourable members to the  Age  newspaper of 26 July in which  Mr Simon  pointed out that not only would the expulsion move succeed but that the Prime Minister knew all about it and approved of it. 
Has the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs received complaints from Aboriginal housing associations in New South Wales that the construction firm, Stawell Timber Industries, knew which housing associations were receiving grants this year before the housing associations themselves knew? Can the Minister explain why the Ngemba Housing Co-operative at Brewarrina and the Wytaliba Housing Association at Weilmoringle were induced to sign Stawell contracts before they had been informed that their applications for housing funds for 1978-79 had been successful? 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I do. During Question Time the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  seriously misrepresented me and many members of the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Party when he purported - 
-Overwhelmingly the majority. He purported to give the House an account of decisions that were made at the Victorian Branch conference at the weekend. I will not take up the time of the House by going into all the details. Suffice to say that at the weekend the following resolution which constitutes the policy of the Victorian platform was carried by a very substantial majority of members at the conference: 
Delegates voted that 'support for human rights and dignity is a fundamental principle of Labor foreign policy and that the ALF is opposed to all forms of authoritarian and totalitarian Government whether based on the ideologies of the Left or the Right'. 
In moving that motion the  speaker  made a very specific reference to the position in the Soviet Union and referred to the Dinzburg trial in particular. With that reference before it, the conference adopted the principle just referred to in a very substantial way. That represents the policy of the Victorian Branch. The House can be assured that I and other spokesmen of the Victorian Branch - 
That is right. I and other spokesmen of the Victorian Branch continue to be concerned at the erosion - 
I am sorry. The House may be assured that I and other spokesmen of that Branch- I am the  President-  continue to be concerned at any erosion of human rights or liberties. I am still concerned, as the conference showed by its resolution, at the position and the problems raised by the Dinzburg trial. I regret that when the Prime Minister answered the question, he did not put all the facts and all the evidence before the House. But that is the usual practice of the Prime Minister. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 25 October 1978: 
What were the individual sums involved in the nine grants made to ethnic and community organisations, to enable them to employ social workers as referred to in his Press statement of 19 October 1978. 
) What was the name and address of those organisations that received these grants and what ethnic and migrant groups do they serve. 
What was the basis of each application, and what were the terms and conditions attached to each grant. 

 -Mr Speaker, I desire to make a personal explanation. 
I do, sir. 
Some few moments ago in a speech to the House by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)-  perhaps it was an exercise in the honourable gentleman's forensic skills- he described members of the Australian Labor Party as being of two kinds: Those who were genuinely concerned with problems of civil liberties and those who, to quote the Minister's words, were concerned to suppress evidence of oppression of dissident groups within the Soviet Union. Having made that statement, the Minister, quite gratuitously- I do not know whether it was because I happened to catch his eyespecifically referred to me by name. I find the statement made by the Minister completely offensive. In all the period in which I have been a member of parliament- both State and Federal- I have been a member of Amnesty International. I have been concerned with questions of civil liberty, whenever and wherever they occurred. The best that could be said about the statement made by the Minister is that it may have been made in the heat of debate. The worst that can be said about it is that it was the sort of cheap political smear that does not add anything to the tenor of debate in this House. Perhaps the Minister would be much better off if he confined himself to the cocktail parties that he attends with members of the Soviet Embassy - 
. . . where he engages in those sorts of conversations. 

 Mr HAYDEN (Oxley-Leader of the Opposition)-  Mr Speaker,  I claim to have been misrepresented. 
-The fact that this Atomic Energy Amendment Bill is being opposed by the Opposition has already been highlighted by Opposition spokesmen but there are a number of points that I desire to make because I think it is time they were raised in this debate. This Bill, apart from the technical factors involved, is essentially a dishonest Bill. It is dishonest for this reason: The Government, while stating its attitude towards uranium and uranium development, has consistently said to the people of Australia: 'We support the recommendations of the Fox inquiry'. The statements made about  Mr Justice  Fox and the eminent position to which he has been appointed as a roving ambassador on these general problems on behalf of the Austraiian Government, would lend support to that proposition. But when we look at the recommendations of the Fox inquiry on the very point that is covered in this legislation, the duplicity and mendacity of the Government is obvious. If one looks at pages 248 and 249 of the second report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry one will see that there can be no stronger recommendations made to a government than that recommendation. I will quote from that report because it seems to me that it has been forgotten by spokesmen for the Government. 
Right throughout this debate there has been the presumption that somehow or other the Government is inherently doing the right thing and that the onus is on members of the Opposition to justify their position. I put it to the House that when we are in a situation as a community and as a Parliament where considerable resources have been expended, we have set up an inquiry and that inquiry has made recommendations of a very positive kind. Where those recommendations are being specifically rejected, surely the onus of proof must rest upon the Minister and upon the government of the day. They are not bound to accept every recommendation but where a recommendation is so strong, so succinct and so logically consistent as the recommendations on this very point, it seems to me that there is a very clear onus on the government or the Minister in this debate to say: 'We examined that recommendation and we have rejected it for a variety of reasons which are as follows'. There is no way that one can look at the second reading speech of the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  and say that such an exercise took place. There is no way that one can listen to the spokesmen for the Government and say: 'At least in the course of the debate the issue was joined and we were told why those recommendations were rejected'. Can there be stronger, more succinct recommendations than those made by  Mr Justice  Fox on this very point? The report states at page 248: 
We strongly recommend against the use of that Act - 
That is the Atomic Energy Act- for the grant of an authority to Ranger to mine uranium. There are a number of different reasons for our recommendation. 
The report then goes into those reasons. I do not want to take up all the time available to me but I will summarise them as quickly as I can. The report goes on to say: 
Although the Commonwealth is a participant, the project is ... as we understand, an ordinary commercial one. 
It further states: 
Section 13a was enacted in order to make more clear and certain the powers already existing under the 1946 Act . . . 
This is what it says about section 41 of the Act, the very section that is now being amended: 
It seems to us that s.41 is a special power which was enacted at a time when the need to secure Australian uranium for use by Great Britain and the United States of 
America in nuclear weapons was uppermost in the minds of those concerned. If its use is to be continued in a situation where peaceful uses only are in mind and commercial profit is intended, the changed rationale should be recognised. The power, if it can be applied in the circumstances, should not be used simply because it exists and may appear convenient. 
In our First Report we explained the very special nature of uranium, and described it as being a highly strategic material. It is therefore necessary for there to be close government controls. 
The report continued:  . . still less that the local environmental controls be determined or supervised under the Atomic Energy Act. 
What can be clearer or more specific than the following: 
The purpose of s.41 is to put aside the ordinary law of the land respecting mining. This law has a long and special history in this country, and is designed to secure a balance between the public interest and the interest of the individual, while ensuring public procedures and allowing public scrutiny. 
It then goes on to crticise the general role of the Atomic Energy Commission. Has any government, when considering a piece of legislation, had before it a recommendation as strong as that? Has a second reading speech ever been produced to this House in which the Government as a matter of general principle to the people of Australia has said: 'We support the recommendations of the Fox inquiry. You can trust us."? We get a second reading speech which indicates, if one relies on the utterances of the Minister, that these recommendations need never have been made. What did the Minister say? If ever there has been an insult to the Parliament and the people of Australia it surely must be contained in these pitiable utterances. There was the recommendation. The onus of proof is not upon the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  or the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  Surely if an onus of proof has to be discharged it ought to be discharged by the Minister, who is tearing up that recommendation and throwing it in the face of the Austraiian people. What were the glib utterances of the Minister in the second reading speech so carefully prepared for him by his advisers? I will say for his advisers that they showed some skill and some capacity because what they did with the recommendations was simply to ignore them. This is how the matter was dealt with: 
The Ranger joint venturers have pointed out that section 14 of the Atomic Energy Act, as it presently stands, does not provide them with adequate security of tenure. 
That is true. Of course, as Fox pointed out, it was never designed to do that. The Minister continued: 
While the Act was designed to allow mining, detailed provisions to cover mining on a commercial basis were never included. 
That is a backhanded way of saying that that is the very point Fox made. The point Fox made was that the Act should not be used for commercial purposes, but what do the Minister and his advisers bring into the House? They bring in a second reading speech which says: 'Of course, the Bill is not designed for that purpose so now we are going to fix it up so that it is'. Has there ever been such frenzied sleight of hand? Has there ever been such palpable political dishonesty? Has there ever been such double dealing with a commodity which threatens the very existence of mankind? With all the talk that comes from honourable gentlemen opposite, they still have not produced one substantial scientific paper which they can assert with any confidence to the people of Australia that the problems of nuclear proliferation have been solved. If they can produce it here, of course the Opposition will have to review its position. 
Is there one single scientific document they can produce which says that the problems of nuclear proliferation have been solved? Of course not, and that is known by those who are involved in the science and technology of nuclear proliferation, in the problems that bedevil the Carter Administration as it endeavours desperately to fight off the demands of the nuclear power industry and contain the problems. The problems that have faced the Carter Administration over the last 18 months indicate that situation very clearly. Of course, the honourable member for Reid reminds me that that in itself was a very specific finding of the Fox inquiry, which pointed out: 
The nuclear power industry is unintentionally contributing to the increased risk of nuclear war. This is a most serious hazard associated with the industry. 
Has one single document been produced in this House by this Minister, by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  by the playboy, the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock),  who I am told kicks his heels very high in Melbourne discotheques these days, but no doubt the exercise will do him good? Has one single piece of evidence been produced by which the Prime Minister or any of his colleagues can say: 'I am pleased to announce to the House that we have now got agreements which indicate that the problems of nuclear proliferation no longer exist*? 
There is still the problem of nuclear waste disposal. It is still with us. It was fascinating to see how research done in Canberra by Professor Ringwood received such attention because he believed that he had found a new method of approaching the problem. At least Professor Ringwood was honest enough and candid enough to say that there were factors involved which had to be the subject of scientific tests. One point he made was that all the nonsense and all the specious arguments that have been produced in this House by the Government in terms of nuclear waste disposal are scientific nonsense. The problem has not been solved, and I refer to the quotations dealt with by the Leader of the Opposition on the most recent findings of a congressional committee in the United States of America. Those two problems are still with us. For those reasons one is entitled to say to the Minister. 'Here is a situation where you have not solved the problem. Here are very specific recommendations from the Fox inquiry. If you want this House to support amendments to legislation which Fox says should not be used in any circumstances to support a commercial venture, then the onus of proof is not on us, it is on the Government. ' Where is the speech? Where is the evidence? Where are the facts which justify the Government's action. The Minister told us in his speech:  . . the Act does not address these issues. 
That is perfectly true. He continued:  . . amendments to deal with them have now become necessary. This does not indicate, however, that the Government has in mind using the Act for other mining projects. 
That is a fascinating sentence. Let me repeat it, because it lies easily in the mind: 
This does not indicate, however, that the Government has in mind using the Act for other mining projects. 
What does that mean? This legislation is really being grafted on to an Act which was essentially related to the defence powers of Australia and extending its use to a commercial mining venture - 
In the Cold War era. Are we being told that this is now going to be a one-off operation? That is the implication. The implication is: 'We will use it this time, but if there are further developments and further discoveries we may possibly use it next time'. What sort of policy is that? I should have thought that if this Government is hell bent on developing uranium, as clearly it is, it ought to be endeavouring to develop marketing processes and a legislative fabric which at least is consistent. The implication of the Minister's second reading speech is that we are going to have these special arrangements in respect of Ranger but no one is entitled to assume that they will be used in respect of any other uranium development anywhere in Australia. In those four sentences I have quoted we have the Government's answer to the very specific recommendations of the Fox inquiry, and I say to the House that it is no answer at all. It is no answer to the many Australian citizens who believe in principle that Australian uranium ought not to be mined until we have solved the problems of nuclear proliferation. It is no answer to those people, concerned as they are about the problems of waste disposal. It is no answer simply to cast it aside, without even acknowledging the strength of the argument of the Fox inquiry. It is no answer to those people to say: 'We are going to mine it and we are going to do it our way. Just as we have stood over the Aboriginal people, we will stand over the Australian people.' 
By this legislation the Government is creating more problems for itself in the long term than it is solving in the short term. It is creating more problems for itself as it locks itself into what it believes will be some sort of economic bonanza at a time when, if one looks at what is occurring in the uranium industry in Europe and in the United States of America, one sees that the uranium industry is bedevilled with economic problems. If the Government believes that it can simply override those problems by ignoring the very substantial arguments that exist in the Fox report and the very considered and substantial arguments that have been put by my colleagues here tonight, it is creating more problems for Australian society on this issue than it is solving. 
This legislation is bad legislation. It is illconsidered legislation. It is legislation which is propounded upon an act of political hypocrisy of quite considerable dimensions. That hypocrisy involves the Prime Minister and the Government, on the one hand, saying that they accept the Fox recommendations in principle and, on the other hand, introducing legislation which, by its very nature, ignores the substance of those recommendations. Not one argument which deals with the substance of the Fox recommendations has been put to this House by the Minister or any of his colleagues. I now invite the Minister to put those arguments because, whatever the differences that exist between the Government and the Australian Labor Party on this issue- they are considerable- at least the differences between us and the differences that exist within Australian society might well start to be resolved if the Government could put its arguments in a forthright and honest manner and not within the framework of an exercise of major political duplicity which is enshrined in the Atomic Energy Act and the amendments to it which are contained in this Bill. For those reasons, I, like my colleagues, will vote against this legislation. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 22 August 1978: 
1 ) How many contracts entered into by Departments and Statutory Corporations under his control for the purchase of equipment, contained clauses specifying an offset arrangement with the vendor for the purchase of Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology during the last 10 years. 
What were those contracts. 
What was the sum involved in each offset clause and what were the terms of its discharge. 
What is the extent to which the terms of these clauses have been implemented specifying in each case the monetary value of the implementation. 
What sum is currently available under these clauses for the purchase of relevant Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 22 August 1978: 
1 ) How many contracts entered into by Departments and Statutory Corporations under his control for the purchase of equipment contained clauses specifying an offset arrangement with the vendor for the purchase of Australian manufactured goods, components and /or technology during the last 10 years. 
What were those contracts. 
What was the sum involved in each offset clause and what were the terms of its discharge. 
What is the extent to which the terms of these clauses have been implemented specifying in each case the monetary value of the implementation. 
What sum is currently available under these clauses for the purchase of relevant Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 22 August 1978: 
1 ) How many contracts entered into by Departments and Statutory Corporations under the Minister's control for the purchase of equipment contained clauses specifying an offset arrangement with the vendor for the purchase of Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology during the last 10 years? 
What were those contracts? 
What was the sum involved in each offset clause and what were the terms of its discharge? 
What is the extent to which the terms of these clauses have been implemented specifying in each case the monetary value of the implementation? 
What sum is currently available under these clauses for the purchase of relevant Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology? 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 22 August 1 978: 
1 ) How many contracts entered into by Departments and Statutory Corporations under his control for the purchase of equipment, contained clauses specifying an offset arrangement with the vendor for the purchase of Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology during the last 10 years. 
What were those contracts. 
What was the sum involved in each offset clause and what were the terms of its discharge. 
What is the extent to which the terms of these clauses have been implemented specifying in each case the monetary value of the implementation. 
What sum is currently available under these clauses for the purchase of relevant Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 22 August 1978: 
1 ) How many contracts entered into by Departments and Statutory Corporations under his control for the purchase of equipment, contained clauses specifying an offset arrangement with the vendor for the purchase of Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology during the last 10 years. 
2 ) What were those contracts. 
What was the sum involved in each offset clause and what were the terms of its discharge. 
What is the extent to which the terms of these clauses have been implemented specifying in each case the monetary value of the implementation. 
What sum is currently available under these clauses for the purchase of relevant Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 22 August 1 978: 
1 ) How many contracts entered into by Departments and Statutory Corporations under his control for the purchase of equipment, contained clauses specifying an offset arrangement with the vendor for the purchase of Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology during the last 10 years. 
What were those contracts. 
What was the sum involved in each offset clause and what were the terms of its discharge. 
What is the extent to which the terms of these clauses have been implemented specifying in each case the monetary value of the implementation. 
What sum is currently available under these clauses for the purchase of relevant Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 22 August 1978: 
1 ) How many contracts entered into by Departments and Statutory Corporations under his control for the purchase of equipment contained clauses specifying an onset arrangement with the vendor for the purchase of Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology during the last 10 years. 
What were those contracts. 
What sum is involved in each offset clause and what were the terms of its discharge. 
What is the extent to which the terms of these clauses have been implemented specifying in each case the monetary value of the implementation. 
What sum is currently available under these clauses for the purchase of relevant Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 22 August, 1 978: 
1 ) How many contracts entered into by Departments and Statutory Corporations under his control for the purchase of equipment contained clauses specifying an offset arrangement with the vendor for the purchase of Australian manufactured goods, components and or technology during the last 10 years. 
What were those contracts. 
What was the sum involved in each offset clause and what were the terms of its discharge. 
What is the extent to which the terms of these clauses have been implemented specifying in each case the monetary value of the implementation. 
What sum is currently available under these clauses for the purchase of relevant Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 22 August 1978: 
1 ) How many contracts entered into by Departments and Statutory Corporations under the Minister's control for the purchase of equipment contained clauses specifying an offset arrangement with the vendor for the purchase of Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology during the last 10 years. 
) What were those contracts. 
What was the sum involved in each offset clause and what were the terms of its discharge. 
What is the extent to which the terms of these clauses have been implemented specifying in each case the monetary value of the implementation. 
What sum is currently available under these clauses for the purchase of relevant Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 22 August 1978: 
1 ) How many contracts entered into by Departments and Statutory Corporations under his control for the purchase of equipment contained clauses specifying an offset arrangement with the vendor for the purchase of Australian manufactured goods, components and /or technology during the last 10 years. 
What were those contracts. 
What is the sum involved in each offset clause and what were the terms of its discharge. 
What is the extent to which the terms of these clauses have been implemented specifying in each case the monetary value of the implementation. 
What sum is currently available under these clauses for the purchase of relevant Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 22 August 1978: 
1 ) How many contracts entered into by Departments and Statutory Corporations under his control for the purchase of equipment contained clauses specifying an offset arrangement with the vendor for the purchase of Australian manufactured goods, components and /or technology during the last 10 years. 
) What were those contracts. 
What was the sum involved in each offset clause and what were the terms of discharge. 
What is the extent to which the terms of these clauses have been implemented, specifying in each case the monetary value of the implementation. 
What sum is currently available under these clauses for the purchase of relevant Australian manufactured goods, components and /or technology. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 22 August 1978: 
1 ) How many contracts entered into by Departments and Statutory Corporations under his control for the purchase of equipment contained clauses specifying an offset arrangement with the vendor for the purchase of Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology during the last 10 years. 
What were those contracts. 
What was the sum involved in each offset clause and what were the terms of its discharge. 
What is the extent to which the terms of these clauses have been implemented specifying in each case the monetary value of the implementation. 
What sum is currently available under those clauses for the purchase of relevant Australian manufactured goods, components and /or technology. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 22 August 1978: 
1 ) How many contracts entered into by Departments and Statutory Corporations under his control for the purchase of equipment contained clauses specifying an offset arrangement with the vendor for the purchase of Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology during the last 10 years. 
2 ) What were those contracts. 
What was the sum involved in each offset clause and what were the terms of its discharge. 
What is the extent to which the terms of these clauses have been implemented specifying in each case the monetary value of the implementation. 
What sum is currently available under these clauses for the purchase of relevant Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology. 
When the question of unemployment and the plight of thousands of Australian citizens who are seeking jobs were raised in this House by Opposition spokesmen and when the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs was given an opportunity in this Parliament to answer allegations which ascribe to him statements which indicate that he clearly believes that the first group of people to be blamed for the unemployment situation is the unemployed themselves it is unfortunate that the Minister chose not to answer those allegations. It is equally unfortunate that some of his well-meaning colleagues simply resort to the tactic of saying: Well, of course, if you raise this matter from the Opposition side of the House you are playing games which are political games '. 
I shall inform the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  and other honourable members of events which involved me recently on the issue of the unemployed. This seriously raises the question of who is playing games and what are the motives of those people who play the games? On 5 February I was informed by what I regard as highly reliable sources that officers of the Commonwealth Employment Service could not send telegrams to unemployed people to notify them of job vacancies. As honourable members will be aware formerly those telegrams were the major way of quickly notifying job seekers of vacancies. Because they can no longer be sent as there is little or no money left to send them the result is discrimination against -those people who do not have telephones. Equally, it creates problems for those who are short of funds and who have to travel to CES offices to obtain work. As honourable members who represent country areas will be aware, the problem there is even more serious. 
Because I was concerned about this matter I issued a Press statement in which I pointed out the injustice of this situation and the fact that it would clearly operate in a discriminatory way against certain categories of unemployed people. Equally, I received complaints from employers who said that this lack of funding and the change in policy by the Government meant that they were not getting the right sort of job applicants. Acting on that information, I issued a Press release in which I made public a fact which- 1 believe to be true. More positively, I sought a change in Government priorities and the way in which it allocates funds. Having issued a Press statement about that matter on 6 February, a public servant who shall remain nameless because ultimately the Minister has to accept responsiblity issued a Press statement saying that my allegations were totally incorrect. I ask honourable members to note the dates. My statements were made on 6 February when I issued a Press release. What obviously occurred was that the journalist concerned queried the matter with responsible CES officers and was told that the matter was completely incorrect. I refer the House to an article which appeared in the 
Melbourne  Age  of 19 February 1979 in which a CES spokesman stated: 
The Commonwealth Employment Service has cut the number of telegrams it sends to clients 'due to financial constraints'. 
The CES spokesman went on to state: 
. the CES had begun to phase in the policy before Christmas ' due to financial constraints '. 
It is an extraordinarily situation when a statement based on facts made by a member of Parliament in the public media can simply be answered by a spokesman on behalf of the Minister with what is a direct and calculated he. I ask the House this question: Who is playing games? If in fact it is necessary to lie about an issue as simple as that, and if one is capable of telling a small lie on a smaller matter of administration, I believe that this Minister and this Government are capable of telling much greater lies in order to evade their responsibility on the question of unemployment. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 22 August 1 978: 
1 ) How many contracts entered into by Departments and Statutory Corporations under his control for the purchase of equipment, contained clauses specifying an offset arrangement with the vendor for the purchase of Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology during the last 10 years. 
2 ) What were those contracts. 
What was the sum involved in each offset clause and what were the terms of its discharge. 
What is the extent to which the terms of these clauses have been implemented specifying in each case the monetary value of the implementation. 
What sum is currently available under these clauses for the purchase of relevant Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 22 August 1978: 
1 ) How many contracts entered into by Departments and Statutory Corporations under his control for the purchase of equipment, contained clauses specifying an offset arrangement with the vendor for the purchase of Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology during the last 10 years. 
What were those contracts. 
What was the sum involved in each offset clause and what were the terms of its discharge. 
What is the extent to which the terms of these clauses have been implemented specifying in each case the monetary value of the implementation. 
What sum is currently available under these clauses for the purchase of relevant Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 22 August 1978. 
1 ) How many contracts entered into by Departments and Statutory Corporations under the Attorney-General's control for the purchase of equipment, contained clauses specifying an offset arrangement with the vendor for the purchase of Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology during the last 10 years. 
What were those contracts. 
What was the sum involved in each offset clause and what were the terms of its discharge. 
What is the extent to which the terms of these clauses have been implemented specifying in each case the monetary value of such implementation. 
What sum is currently available under these clauses for the purchase of relevant Australian manufactured goods, components and /or technology. 
asked the Minister for Special Trade Representations, upon notice, on 22 August 1978: 
How may contracts entered into by Departments and Statutory Corporations under his control for the purchase of equipment, contained clauses specifying an offset arrangement with the vendor for the purchase of Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology during the last 10 years. 
What were those contracts. 
What was the sum involved in each offset clause and what were the terms of its discharge. 
What is the extent to which the terms of these clauses have been implemented specifying in each case the monetary value of the implementation. 
What sum is currently available under these clauses for the purchase of relevant Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 22 August 1978: 
1 ) How many contracts entered into by Departments and Statutory Corporations under his control for the purchase of equipment, contained clauses specifying an offset arrangement with the vendor for the purchase of Australian manufactured goods, components and /or technology during the last 10 years. 
2 ) What were those contracts. 
What was the sum involved in each offset clause and what were the terms of its discharge. 
What is the extent to which the terms of each clause have been implemented specifying in each case the monetary value of the implementation. 
What sum is currently available under such clauses for the purchase of relevant Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 8 November 1 978: 
1 ) With regard to his admission that on 24 October he approved the rates and tables of the Hospital Contributions Fund, without seeing or approving the accompanying rules, will he accept some responsibility if the effect of the rules taken in conjunction with the rates which he approved, operate discriminately against the chronically ill. 
With regard to his expressed concern about the inadequacy of the cover to protect the chronically ill, what action does he propose to take to deal with this situation. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 22 August 1 978: 
1 ) How many contracts entered into by departments and statutory corporations under his control for the purchase of equipment contained clauses specifying an offset arrangement with the vendor for the purchase of Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology during the last 10 years. 
What were those contracts. 
What was the sum involved in each offset clause and what were the terms of its discharge. 
What is the extent to which the terms of these clauses have been implemented specifying in each case the monetary value of the implementation 
What sum is currently available under these clauses for the purchase of relevant Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 25 October 1 978: 
Has his attention been drawn to allegations that new clauses in the HBA agreement operate selectively against the single elderly, who, if they seek to obtain top hospital cover of $80 per day, have to pay the full family rate. 
Is it a fact that hardship can ensue by the operation of the 70 day chronic illness clause in HBA agreements whereby citizens insured in the top 3 tables who stay in hospital for more than 70 days are covered only for the basic $40 per day. 
3 ) If the position is as stated, what action does he propose to take to eliminate these hardships. 
I shall resume the debate on the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  concerning the state of the nation. 
We are debating the Prime Minister's statement. The Minister for Primary Industry would be better advised sorting out his family company's affairs rather than jumping up and down in this House moving the gag. It is very important that in this nation some regard should be paid by the Government to the principles and traditions of the Westminster system. There are certain basic factors in that system. One is that the Executive- the prime arm of governmenttakes the House into its confidence and deals with it frankly at all times. What has been taking place in this House for the last 20 minutes is not merely an abnegation of the traditions and a denial of the practices; it is a disgrace to this Parliament and to the people of Australia. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  I caution the honourable member for Cunningham and the honourable member for Bendigo against such extravagant behaviour. If they persist I shall have to deal with them. 
The Prime Minister, in his statement, canvassed a wide range of issues which included the Government's economic strategy, its attitude towards inflation and an important statement on foreign policy. The Prime Minister finished on the resounding note that not only does his Government have the confidence of the people of Australia but also that he of course has the confidence of all of his members. The behaviour of members opposite indicates the paramount truth of the rumour that is circulating around this House at the moment. It has nothing to do with what a great performance the Prime Minister gave and what a great speech he made. The one thing which is being discussed in Parliament at present and which will go into the headlines of the media is that a Minister of this Government has resigned. I am told by a prominent member of the Liberal Party that the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  has resigned. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 22 August 1978: 
1 ) How many contracts entered into by Departments and Statutory Corporations under his control for the purchase of equipment contained clauses specifying an offset arrangement with the vendor for the purchase of Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology during the last 10 years. 
What were those contracts. 
What was the sum involved in each offset clause and what were the terms of its discharge. 
What is the extent to which the terms of these clauses have been implemented specifying in each case the monetary value of the implementation. 
What sum is currently available under these clauses for the purchase of relevant Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 22 August 1 978: 
1 ) How many contracts entered into by Departments and Statutory Corporations under his control for the purchase of equipment, contained clauses specifying an onset arrangement with the vendor for the purchase of Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology during the last 10 years. 
What were those contracts. 
What was the sum involved in each offset clause and what were the terms of its discharge. 
What is the extent to which the terms of these clauses have been implemented specifying in each case the monetary value of the implementation. 
What sum is currently available under these clauses for the purchase of relevant Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 22 August 1978: 
1 ) How many contracts entered into by departments and statutory corporations under the Minister's control for the purchase of equipment, contained clauses specifying an offset arrangement with the vendor for the purchase of Australian manufactured goods, components and /or technology during the last 10 years. 
What were those contracts. 
What was the sum involved in each offset clause and what were the terms of its discharge. 
What is the extent to which the terms of these clauses have been implemented specifying in each case the monetary value of the implementation. 
What sum is currently available under these clauses for the purchase of relevant Australian manufactured goods, components and /or technology. 

 -Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented. 
asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 22 August 1978: 
1 ) How many contracts entered into by Departments and Statutory Corporations under his control for the purchase of equipment, contained clauses specifying an offset arrangement with the vendor for the purchase of Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology during the last 10 years. 
) What were those contracts. 
What was the sum involved in each offset clause and what were the terms of its discharge. 
What is the extent to which the terms of these clauses have been implemented specifying in each case the monetary value of the implementation. 
What sum is currently available under these clauses for the purchase of relevant Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 22 August 1978: 
1 ) With respect to Government policy that 30 per cent of all defence purchases should be offered for Australian industrial participation, how many contracts entered into by his Department for the purchase of defence or other equipment, contained clauses specifying an offset arrangement with the vendor for the purchase of Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology during the last 10 years. 
2 ) What were those contracts. 
What was the sum involved in each offset clause and what were the terms of discharge. 
What is the extent to which the terms of these clauses have been implemented, specifying in each case the monetary value of the implementation. 
What sum is currently available under these clauses for the purchase of relevant Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Is it not a fact that the basis of the agreement between the Commonwealth and the States by which the Commonwealth grants funds to the States for the purpose of rural adjustment is contained in the States Grants (Rural Adjustment) Act of 1976? Do not these provisions require grants to assist farmers to be specifically limited to those who have used all their cash and credit resources and who cannot meet their financial commitments? Does the Prime Minister believe that these terms would specifically make ineligible for a concessional loan from the Victorian Rural Finance and Settlement Commission the Nareeb Nareeb Pastoral Co.? If not, can he inform the House under what provisions were two loans totalling $ 100,000 made to the company? 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 22 August 1978: 
1 ) How many contracts entered into by departments and statutory corporations under his control for the purchase of equipment, contained clauses specifying an offset arrangement with the vendor for the purchase of Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology during the last 10 years. 
What were those contracts. 
What was the sum involved in each offset clause and what were the terms of its discharge. 
What is the extent to which the terms of these clauses have been implemented specifying in each case the monetary value of the implementation. 
What sum is currently available under such clauses for the purchase of relevant Australian manufactured goods, components and /or technology. 
This subject is designed to raise important matters of public policy concerning the expenditure of funds on behalf of the Commonwealth by the States, pursuant to the State Grants (Rural Adjustment) Act 1976. Under that Act the Commonwealth and the States, working through their respective instrumentalities, provide assistance to persons engaged in rural industries. But the thrust of all the legislation, and indeed the practice that  is  employed by the instrumentalities, is to see that the flow of funds goes essentially to working farmers whose financial circumstances are such that they cannot usually obtain resources or finance from the normal lending institutions. 
Matters have been mentioned in this Parliament and by the media which raise serious questions as to the equity and indeed, the propriety of loans made to the father-in-law of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and family companies under or controlled by him. Let me say at the outset that essentially two people had both the resources and the capacity and, in my view, the responsibility to end media speculation in respect of those matters. One was the Premier and Treasurer of Victoria and the other was the Prime Minister. The Treasurer of Victoria has, on the most charitable interpretation, spent three days giving three different answers as to the nature of his professional and business relationship as a solicitor with the Fraser family and its trusts. The Prime Minister, apart from screaming down the telephone at the unfortunate  chairman  of the Rural Finance Commission, has simply resorted to his usual tactic of abusing and impugning the motives of all persons who question these loans and the circumstances surrounding them. The unacceptable facts are that the circumstances surrounding the loans to the Beggs family seem to involve evidence which transgresses the general policy upon which these funds are normally allocated and possibly even the statutory requirements within the relevant Victorian Act. The questions that we have to consider in respect of these transactions are, firstly, to have regard to the statements of the Rural Finance Commission in its 1977 report that there are constraints on the Commission's lending program. It stated: 
This has necessitated degrees of priority being established in order to spread the funds as widely as possible. 
The first question is: Was the loan of $100,000 excessive in the circumstances? Having regard to the capacity of the borrower to obtain funds from the normal lending institutions, should that loan have been made at all? The second question is whether the total sum of $ 100,000 should have required the consent of the Treasurer of Victoria and whether the method of splitting loans by a series of mortgages overcame the statutory requirements. Finally, we have to consider whether the loan of $50,000 at 10 per cent to the Beggs family, in fact, constituted a debt reconstruction. If so, did not the circumstances surrounding the loan fail to comply with the stated purposes of the debt reconstruction agreement and the heads of that agreement as agreed between the Commonwealth and the States. It is important to remember at all times that the purpose of debt reconstruction is to assist the farmer who, although having sound prospects for long term commercial viability- here I am taking the terms of the agreement itself- has used all his resources, cannot meet his financial commitments and cannot obtain appropriate funds from lending institutions. In Victoria, once those criteria are fulfilled, that farmer tends to use the Rural Finance Commission as a lender of last resort I reiterate that two people, apart from  Mr Beggs,  are in a position to provide the detailed information which will enable those questions to be answered. Neither of them has chosen to do so. 
Let us move to the details of the evidence as we know them. As already stated the Rural Finance Commission has never had sufficient funds to meet all the demands that are made upon it by its potential borrowers. At the time of these loans- early in 1977- this was equally the case, particularly as at that time large sections of the Victorian farming community, particularly dairy farmers, were undergoing great difficulties. The Rural Finance Commission has never been seen either within the rural community or by itself as competing with private lending institutions. Indeed as a general policy, if a farmer can obtain finance from private institutions, then his eligibility for rural finance is restricted. This general policy, which this House has approved, has been stated time and time again in the reports of the Rural Finance Commission. It is a policy which has been acted upon both by the Commonwealth and the relevant Ministers and indeed it has been enunciated and widely understood within Victoria's rural community. Following the bush fires that swept through the western district in February 1977, the Premier announced a series of measures to help victims. This is referred to in the 1977 report which states: 
The Commission was directed to administer concessional interest rate loans at the rate of 4 per cent to farmers, small businessmen and townspeople, to replace losses incurred in the fire to those who did not have ready access to finance from normal sources on reasonable terms. Generally speaking, the loans are to be repaid over a period of up to 20 years with the terms and conditions subject to review at the expiration of five years. For an initial period of two years interest only will be payable. 
Again, I draw the attention of honourable members to the criteria. These funds were available to those who did not have ready access to finance from normal sources on reasonable terms. The funds that were made available pursuant to this concept totalled $2.1m. The loans were spread amongst 167 people. The average loan was $12,600. Three applicants were rejected. I do not know why. Presumably, they could not comply with the terms. It was from this source that a loan of $50,000 at a rate of interest of 4 per cent was obtained by the Beggs family. 
The first question that has to be raised is whether the applicants fell into the category of being people who did not have ready access to finance from normal sources on reasonable terms. The second amount of $50,000 at a rate of interest of  IOV2  per cent was made available under Part III of the Victorian Act, which allows general finance for country industry in farming areas. It would seem from the mortgage transactions that some part of this loan was used in clearing an earlier mortgage from a company known as Ambulando Nominees. That company is owned by a firm of Melbourne solicitors. One of the owners of the company is James Ford Strachan, a solicitor. Coincidentally, part of the land which constitutes the Beggs property is also shown to be partly owned by James Ford Strachan, a solicitor. He is also one of the signatories as mortgagor to the mortgage documents from the Rural Finance and Settlement Commission. 
If James Ford Strachan is one and the same person the question arises- it is a serious question- as to whether money was obtained from the Rural Finance and Settlement Commission and public sources at lower rates of interest to discharge a mortgage held by a company in which one of the borrowers who could hardly be described as a poor former-he was in fact a solicitor- had a proprietary interest. All one can do is look at the documents and seek an explanation. On the face of it one can only presume that the general purport of the Act and the principles upon which the Commission normally operates do not apply to a solicitor who owns land over which a mortgage is held by a company in which he has an interest. 
Subsequently, in an explanation of these loans to the media,  Mr Beggs  stated: 
We naturally shopped around and took the lowest rate of interest available to us. 
He also stated that the loan of $50,000 at a rate of interest of 10&amp; per cent was to assist him in restructuring. Two elements are involved in those statements. First of all,  Mr Beggs  did not say that he could not get the money from anywhere else and that other sources of funds were not available to him. He said that they shopped around and took the best interest rate going. That is a rare situation to be in for someone receiving sums of that size from the Commission. He said himself- it is not a question of the Labor Party or anybody else saying it- that the second loan was to help him in restructuring. Certainly  Mr Beggs'  own statements would explain why the Rural Finance and Settlement Commission, which was to make him a loan of $50,000 at a rate of interest of 10  Vi  per cent, chose to operate under Part III of the Victorian Act. Clearly, having regard to  Mr Beggs'  financial situation, he would not have been eligible for debt reconstruction under the normal principles of debt reconstruction. 
The effect of these transactions was that the Beggs family received $100,000 in loans and $180,000 in compensation from the State Electricity Commission. This was a total of $280,000 in respect of losses which Beggs himself admits were independently estimated at $250,000. I suppose life was not meant to be easy but certainly few farmers in Victoria have ever had it as good as that. The interest rate on the loan of $50,000 related to fire damage is 4 per cent. The interest is repayable only for the first two years. The average loan to all other applicants was $12,600. Whilst there can be no doubt that extensive damage was done to the Beggs property which may have caused immediate problems of financial liquidity, at no stage has it ever been suggested by Beggs or any spokesman on his behalf that his financial situation was such that he could not have obtained assistance through the normal financial institutions. It would seem, to use  Mr Beggs'  own terms that he did not merely shop around; he shopped around very successfully indeed. 
What has to be remembered is that the funds that were made available to the Beggs family were funds which were not available to other Victorian farmers who did not have the capacity to borrow on the open market. Equally, I find it difficult, if not impossible, to believe that the Treasurer of Victoria could presumably accept without being informed a situation in which one family and its company could receive assistance to the extent of $ 100,000 by the simple device of splitting mortgages and creating two loans with different rates of interest. It has taken the Treasurer,  Mr Hamer,  over a week to sort out the complexities of his own professional relationship as solicitor to the Fraser family trust. I do not want to dwell on that point, but it raises the question of whether the course adopted by the Commission and the way in which it went about handling these loans was taken in order to resolve the immediate and direct conflict of interest in which the Treasurer found himself. If he had been notified of the amount of the total loan and if he had had to approve it he would have been in a direct conflict of interest situation in which he would have been approving a loan to at least one person who was a direct beneficiary and also a client of the Treasurer in another capacity. 
The limited public funds available to assist farmers in difficult and strained economic circumstances have not been used in this case in the spirit outlined in the Act. They cannot objectively be said to have been used in that way. All the blustering, bullying and cavorting of the Prime Minister and his colleagues cannot escape that essential fact. I finish on this note: At least the Beggs family has restructured with some success. I notice from the livestock news in  Stock and Land  that in a recent sale conducted by the Prime Minister the top price of $1,700 was paid for a two-year-old bull by  Mr Hugh  Beggs for the Nareeb Nareeb herd at Glenthompson. Not only does he reconstruct on public money but also he keeps it in the family. 
The events of the last few weeks in Iran and the emergence and intensification of the Sino- Vietnamese conflict, I think should have proved the difficulties implicit in any endeavour to formulate a coherent foreign policy and, more importantly, to relate the objectives of that foreign policy to the production and practical implementation of a sophisticated defence strategy. I believe that the purpose of this debate should not simply be to enable honourable members to engage in exercises of moralistic judgment or adopt the rhetoric of the 1950s. Rather it should be to get down to the very difficult task of trying to formulate a foreign policy strategy and to relate it to a defence policy strategy. At the moment, one of the real criticisms that I have of this Government is that, looking at the operation of our Defence Department, there seems to be little that is coherent and certainly little that is related to the implementation of practical defence strategy objectives in accordance with the very fast movement in the Foreign Affairs area. 
I would have hoped that certain conclusions could be drawn from the present world situation. Apparently the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  is still locked into the rhetoric of the 1950s and finds it difficult to accept certain historical facts. I would have thought that one of the conclusions that all honourable members should draw is that it is no longer possible to characterise a nation with a communist government as part of one giant political monolith or even as part of two giant political monoliths. The matter is much more complex than that. I would have thought also that the speciousness of the position relating to the domino theory which provided the basis of much of the Liberal and National Country party thinking in the early 1970s would be laid to rest. 
On any view of what is occurring in South East Asia, to say that the events that have occurred there over the last 12 months prove the domino theory as it was expounded at the height of the Vietnamese conflict by members of the Liberal and National Country parties is unrealistic. Members of the Liberal and National Country parties were perfectly happy to distribute political pamphlets which, geographically, showed Australia very close to Asia and China. Those pamphlets had a big red line coming out of Australia with the caption: 'Better to stop them there than have them come here'. As always in such situations, the 'them' was the Chinese rather than the Vietnamese. 
I think part of the difficulty that we face in this situation is the fact that the Australian people's own regional isolation and European heritage have left us singularly ill-equipped as a community to understand the complex mix of historical, cultural, territorial and international factors that have led to the war currently raging between China and Vietnam, and Vietnam and Kampuchea. I want to concentrate on aspects of those events because I believe that as they are events which affect very graphically the future of Australia they need a great deal more attention than they have been given by this Government. Let me say at the outset that I reject the moral stance of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  when he says: 'It is perfectly all right for this Government to recognise what was clearly an act of aggression by the Indonesian Government against the Timorese people. It is perfectly all right for Austrafia to stand to one side and refuse to recognise in any way at all the legitimate claims of the Timorese people for their own independence'. That is an event that has occurred on our own doorstep and I believe that the Australian Government- and I include the Whitlam Government in this- made a tragic strategic blunder when Indonesia invaded Timor. 
Those events have taken place, but on what basis does the Prime Minister wax moral about withdrawing aid from Vietnam by virtue of its invasion of Kampuchea, while at the same time turning a blind eye to what was clearly an act of aggression by the Indonesian Government against a small nation very near our border that was unable to defend itself adequately? It is that kind of moralistic jingoism from the Prime Minister that makes me fearful for the formulation of anything like a sophisticated foreign policy which would involve Australia in moving with considerable sophistication into the area of South East Asia. In my view, looking at what has occurred between China and Vietnam and between Vietnam and Kampuchea, it is not possible to make the sorts of moral judgments that have been made in this House by the Prime Minister. 
I will be happy to deal with them. That is a matter that I want to move to. 
The fact is that after the Vietnamese war was over - 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, are you going to shut up that fool? 
After the end of the conflict in Vietnam, ambitious plans were made for Vietnamese reconstruction. That required a large proportion of funding from non-communist sources, including such institutions as the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. It also involved bilateral aid and loans. The plans envisaged extensive trade with non-communist countries and the import of Western technology. This was part of a liberal economic package which looked to the gradual introduction of socialism in the south. I believe that the failure to obtain co-operation in these objectives from countries such as America helped to produce the economic set-backs that Vietnam has experienced since 1975. In part, the lack of Western support forced the Vietnamese Government to adopt more orthodox Soviet style communist policies and to lean increasingly upon the Soviet Union for support. It ought to be pointed out that if we have learned anything from the history of Vietnam it is that Russians and Vietnamese interests do no perfectly coincide and that the fiercefully nationalistic Vietnamese are not likely to become simply puppets of the Soviet Union. It is notable that Vietnam has still not endorsed Russia's proposal for an Asian collective security scheme and that it continues to be a member of such institutions as the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. 
When one looks at the factors which are involved in the Vietnamese invasion of Kampuchea one sees that for a long time there has been conflict between Vietnam and Cambodia over the demarcation of borders. 
I do not agree with any nation attacking another nation and I believe that an act of aggression is an act of aggression and ought to be condemned. Unlike the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier),  I have condemned publicly the Indonesian act of aggression against the Timorese. The honourable gentleman wants to wax eloquent about the war that is raging in Vietnam but wants to turn a blind eye to what is happening off the northern coast of Australia. The fact is that armed clashes have been going on between Vietnam and Kampuchea since as far back as 1975. In September 1977 both sides were engaged in multidivisional attack miles inside opposition territory. None of those events was of any great concern then to any member on the Government side; nor were they a matter of any great concern to the Australian Government. The situation changed in December 1978 when Vietnam launched a major invasion with an army of 120,000 to 140,000 troops. I condemn that act of aggression but I do not believe that it pays us to be moralistic and jingoistic about it because all the fault is not on one side. In this regard I refer to a statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock).  In the  National Times  of 3 March 1979 he was quoted as saying: 
You would be deaf, dumb, and mentally deficient not to recognise that there was a greater accord between Australia and China in the region. 
It is perfectly true that Australia has increasing trade relations with China. It is true that our diplomatic and other relations with China are improving. But, by virtue of these facts, it is absurd not to recognise that Vietnam is also an important regional force and a force with which Australia will have to live in South East Asia for many years to come. I do not believe that it is possible to draw any clear moral distinction between Vietnamese and Chinese actions. I believe that it is false strategy at this time to engage in positions based upon moral and pontifical statements which are designed essentially to alienate Hanoi, because the effect of any strategy of isolation is to drive Hanoi further into the arms of the Soviet Union. That of itself will increasingly exacerbate tensions between China and both of her neighbours. It must be a matter of concern. Anyone who has been to China knows that throughout China, at almost every level and on almost every street there is concern and fear about an attack by the Soviet Union. They are deeply fearful about their northern border. Equally, one can understand that China will be, and obviously is, concerned when it sees that in the communist world the Vietnamese are operating in an increasingly closer alliance with, and with an increasing dependence upon, the Soviet Union. 
One fact that must be looked at- Australia would be making a grave mistake if it ignored it-is that actions by China have helped to produce that situation. It would be a grave mistake indeed if the Australian Government were to follow a policy of isolating the Vietnamese because such a policy would, in the long term, serve only to increase tensions in that area. I believe that the sooner we consign the sort of statements that we have heard tonight from the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr),  the old rhetoric of the Cold War, to the trash can of history, where they belong, the better off we will all be. The time has come when Australia must grow up very quickly in the field of foreign affairs. 
I would like to conclude on the note on which I began. To me, the formation of foreign policy is not just a simple exercise in determining one 's relationships with one's neighbours and with other nations. Australia has an important contribution to make to world councils, in endeavouring to relieve and reduce tensions in this part of the world. The fact that nobody sees Australia as a world power, that nobody believes that we have aggressive territorial designs on other nations, means that there are other situations in which, diplomatically, we are able to achieve much that large powers such as the United States cannot necessarily achieve with the same finesse, simply because they are world powers. I believe that that is a responsibility that we must adopt. 
It is also very important at this stage to view foreign policy assessments and strategy frankly and candidly, to argue our way through them and then relate them to the defence strategies which have to be adopted by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen).  On another occasion I intend to be deeply critical about what I regard as the complete inadequacy of, and the maladministration that exists in, that realm of Government operations. 
-by leave- I address my remarks to the report presented to the House by the  Chairman  of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs, the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock).  The Committee spent many months on this important matter of Aboriginal health, it examined many documents and heard many witnesses. The recommendations of the Committee are in the report and they can be examined- by all honourable members. I simply remind the House that this report deals with matters of life and death, that is the life and death of Aboriginal citizensAustralian citizens- in our community. As the  Chairman  has pointed out, an all-Party parliamentary committee has found that the levels and standards of Aboriginal health which operate in Australia today are such that they would not be acceptable to any part of this community. They should not be acceptable to this Parliament, and they would not be if Australia, as a community, had not placed itself in a cultural and mental attitude over many years, believing that the health of Aboriginal citizens was less relevant than the health of the dominant white groups in our community. 
I believe the success or otherwise of this report and its many recommendations will have to be judged not in terms of what the Committee has said, but in terms of what action the Government proposes to take. In relation to past reports presented by committees looking at various aspects of Aboriginal health I think it is true to say that some of the recommendations contained in those reports have been implemented, but many have not been. The Committee's expression is that despite recommendations made by past committees on the problems of alcohol and the effect that alcohol has upon Aboriginal communities, not enough has been done. Recommendations have been ignored. I simply place on record my appreciation of the collaboration that the Committee received from all its members, staff and professional advisers. I serve notice that as a member of that Committee I propose, in the future life of this Parliament, to pursue the recommendations that have been made in this report. I shall do my best to ensure that those recommendations are adopted and implemented by the Government. 
I rise to support the Simon amendment and to oppose the Lusher motion. In doing so I first of all look to those occasions in the last six months when the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  and his supporters, if they were sincere and wanted to affect the funding of abortions and to prevent that funding, had legislative opportunities in this Parliament to do so. In November and December of last year this Parliament had before it the National Health Amendment Bill which provided the legislative opportunity which was not availed of by the honourable member for Hume and his supporters. One is entitled to ask why when there was a legislative opportunity it was not acted upon. What we now have is a motion which at this stage of the debate is no longer the basis for a discussion about the propriety of funding abortion. We now have a debate on the issue of abortion itself. 
I am not opposed to this Parliament debating the issue of abortion per se. I am opposed to this 
Parliament debating the issue in the context of this mean and despicable motion. I believe it is a mean and despicable motion because there was a legislative opportunity which was not availed of. I believe it is a despicable motion because it tries through the back door to affect the laws that are essentially the responsibility of the States and the Territories and not the legal responsibility of this Parliament. 
What have we been told? We have been told by the honourable member for Hume- and this is conceded by the honourable member- that if we adopt his motion the State laws will be not affected. He also concedes that his motion will not affect the ability of women who are financially well off to have abortions. They will go and have them. He hopes that the economically deprived and the poor, by virtue of their economic circumstances, by virtue of the fact that they will face a queue in the public hospitals or have to resort to the tender mercies of the backyarder, might think again and adopt his personal morality. I do not believe that this House or any other parliament in this Commonwealth can in fact legislate to enforce morality at any level. 
In invoking legal arguments to support the motion an attack has been made not merely upon the legal efficacy of the Menhennitt judgment. I am concerned that an attack has been made on  Mr Justice  Menhennitt himself on a number of occasions. Let me as a former Victorian parliamentarian and a current member of the legal profession in Victoria say this: No judge in the Supreme Court of Victoria has a higher reputation amongst members of the Bar or members of the legal profession than  Mr Justice  Menhennitt. I believe it is totally unworthy of any member of this House, because he might not like the social consequences of a particular judgment, to attack - 
Debate interrupted. 
I deplore the attacks upon the integrity of  Mr Justice  Menhennitt. I find it interesting that for many years after that judgment and its implications were known, at no stage in the Victorian Parliament were  Mr Justice  Menhennitt or that judgment attacked by any member from any party. The attack has had to come from the Commonwealth Parliament and we have had to drag in a legal opinion from a couple of barristers in New South Wales, who have no knowledge of the Victorian jurisdiction or of the reputation of  Mr Justice  Menhennitt, to try to destroy the efficacy of that decision. 
I just want to say that this motion ought to be opposed because it attempts to use the financial power of the Commonwealth to affect the operation of State laws in a way which I believe is unsound constitutionally and which involves a principle which we will live to regret. Secondly, it seeks to superimpose the judgment of this House between the judgment of the medical practitioner and his patient. Patients are entitled to receive the treatment that their doctors recommend, not treatment based on the moral doctrines of the honourable member for Hume. The Lusher motion also endeavours to import moral precepts and judgments into the complex area of health benefits. If it were passed it would create a bureaucratic nightmare. Finally, it attacks the most vulnerable members of the community. Those women who are unable to afford an abortion could only hope to get into the queue at a public hospital or be at the mercy of the backyard abortionist. 
Let me just deal with the question of conscience. It is all very well for members of this House to say that they are examining their consciences. There is absolutely no evidence to suggest that the conscience of any member of this House, including my own, on the issue of abortion is any more profound- and I believe it probably is less profound- than the conscience of the woman who, in a moment of agony and trauma, has to make what I believe to be a truly awful decision- to terminate her pregnancy. Who says that the conscience of the honourable member for Hume or the conscience of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports ought to be superimposed upon the woman who has to make that choice? We live in a pluralist and democratic community and ultimately we should never forget that religious freedom in this community rests upon the doctrine of the separation of the Church from the state. The Church has a right to impose its moral teachings and beliefs upon its members, but I believe grave dangers would be involved if it endeavoured to use the coercive powers of the State and the sanctions of the criminal law to enforce moral precepts and moral doctrines. If I have to choose between the consciences of members of this House and the conscience of the woman who has the right to make that decision, I believe that safety lies in saying that the average Australian woman will make that decision with more conscience than some of the consciences I have seen displayed in this House today. 
Does the Minister for Defence accept as a fact that he should be possessed of information that will enable him to inform the Parliament accurately of the amounts owing by way of offset payments for particular defence contracts, pursuant to stated government policy that 30 per cent of all defence purchases should be offered for Australian industry participation? Is it a fact that the Minister was unable recently, after a period of six months, to provide this information in reply to a question on notice? Does the Minister's failure to provide this information indicate in respect of this matter that, firstly, he does not know or, secondly, the Department does not know or, thirdly, the Department knows but is not about to tell him or any other honourable member by virtue of the fact - 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
1 ) On how many occasions in the last four years has the Defence Industry Committee met. 
Has the Committee had referred to it the question of offset payments owing as a result of defence purchases with a request to advise on the use of these funds in respect of Australian manufacturing defence potential; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
1 ) Was the decision of the Government to close the Australian Engine Works ever referred to the Defence Industry Committee for the purpose of deciding whether it was appropriate for (a) retention of existing capacity and (b) development of new capacity. 
If so, (a) when was this done, (b) what decision was made and (c) will a copy of the report be made available. 
3 ) When did the committee last report to him. 
Will he make this report available. 
It will take me only two minutes to deal with the substance of the comments of the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Burns).  I know Norm Gallagher. Like the honourable member for Isaacs, I know that his claims on behalf of his union members, whether they be for $6 a week, $10 a week or $20 a week, are made openly and publicly. There is no argument about that. The honourable member for Isaacs would acknowledge that. I simply say this: The real cost to the people of Victoria in terms of housing, about which the honourable member for Isaacs and his colleagues remain silent, has been the millions of dollars ripped out of the Housing Commission with the approval and cognisance of the Victorian Liberal Government. This is something about which honourable members opposite say nothing and do nothing. 
-Essentially this debate is about a statement which goes to this Government's attitude towards industrial relations. This Parliament less than a fortnight ago was interrupted by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who chose to come in here and act like the mad sheriff from out of the West who could not wait to have his high noon with the Premier of New South Wales because on that occasion, due to the industrial philosophy of this Government, the New South Wales Government had decided that it would very properly grant a 3716 hour week to workers in the power industry. We were told what the Prime Minister was going to do about that. He was going to starve the Government of New South Wales of funds. He was going to determine what industrial standards would prevail throughout this country. Of course, what has happened? Less than a fortnight later,the whole issue has been consigned to about page 5 of the local Sydney papers with the simple statement that the Premier has won. 
This Parliament has had enough of the political grandstanding of the Prime Minister. I would say this in fairness to the Prime Minister: On this occasion he did not come in and do the job himself; he sent in his Sancho Panza. On this occasion we did not have the prefect; we had the fag. What a statement it was. What have we been told? We have been told in this statement that this Government is going to interfere with the proper constitutional prerogatives of our industrial tribunals. 
If the honourable gentleman kept his mouth shut instead of asking such stupid questions he would realise that the industrial power of the Commonwealth is founded upon an industrial dispute taking place on an interstate basis. That jurisdiction certainly has been extended as a result of legal and industrial tribunals' findings, but the reality of the situation is that there is not an industrial commissioner or a judge of the Industrial Court who is not so completely experienced and knowledgeable, when moving into situations of industrial confrontation, as to deal with those issues on the facts and, for the most part, to solve them without the sort of mad political utterances that emanated from the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  today. 
A number of issues in this dispute have not been dealt with either by the Minister or by the honourable member for Isaacs and I venture to suggest that they will not be dealt with by any  speaker  who endeavours to give support to the Minister in this debate. Is it denied that the Full Bench awarded a $8 increase in December 1978 and that 75 per cent of that award has flowed to transport drivers throughout industry? This Government says: 'Go to arbitration, go to our industrial tribunals and accept the findings'. The findings were made in December 1978. What we are talking about now is a flow-on. Is it basically unreasonable for a bus driver in Canberra, who sees a driver doing a similar job, driving the same sort of vehicle and getting the benefit of the $8 flow on, to say: 'If I cannot get it in any other way I am prepared to strike to get it"? 
-If this Government believed that it was a matter of such deep industrial principle - 
I am interested in that because, if that is so, honourable members opposite had better join issue with one of their own Ministers because this $8 has already flowed on to transport drivers employed by Telecom Australia. The Minister cannot have it both ways. The Government cannot say: 'In terms of one government instrumentality it is all right, the Government and the Minister will sit by and permit the flow-on, but we are going to get terribly excited about an industrial stoppage which is occurring essentially in Victoria but partly in Canberra and in the other States on the basis that there is some gross injustice'. The gross injustice is the reluctance of this Government, its political desire and- to use and enlarge upon terms that were used by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)-  the sheer political bastardly that is involved. It is a very low, mean and despicable form of political bastardry because what the Government is really concerned to do is to use its powers to try to intimidate the industrial tribunals, the employers, the trade union movement and the workers on the basis that it will be the final and ultimate political arbiter. 
The honourable gentleman ought to go to his favourite hotel in Canberra; that is his problem. In this situation the issues are fairly simple. When the Minister walked into the Parliament today did he not know that tomorrow morning there is to be an interstate telephone hook-up in which advice in the form of a set of recommendations will be tendered to all the unionists involved in the Transport Workers Union? Does he pretend that he does not know what those recommendations are? What we have here is an exercise that is as mean and despicable in terms of proper industrial relations in this country as anything I have ever heard. The fact is that the Minister knows, because of the very nature of the utterances that he has made, that the statements that he has made are designed not to produce industrial settlement but to provoke and inflame the situation. That is the reality. One might ask why any reasonable Minister of the Crown would want to do that. 
Well, no. There is another reason. One might well ask why the Premier of Victoria wrote a letter to all oil distributors in Victoria endeavouring to encourage them to produce an industrial stoppage- industrial confrontation. What are the motives of these men? The motives are simple. The motives are political motives. It is public knowledge that an election is to take place in Victoria and that the Hamer Government, caught in a web of corruption and maladministration that goes right to the whole structure of government, is so desperate that it will not even allow the Parliament of Victoria to meet. It has been cancelled. 
The honourable member for Denison, who believes in political amnesty and in the institution of Parliament, would know that from time immemorial the Parliament of Victoria has met in February and March of every year. It is not meeting now. The reason it is not meeting now is that the Government is so desperate, so beleagured, and so concerned to cover up its maladministration and the evidence of corruption that exists at almost every level that the Parliament has been suspended indefinitely. There is no constitutional forum within Victoria in which an honourable member who feels like the honourable member for Isaacs can say his piece. So members of the Victorian Parliament have to rely on their colleagues to try to do a job up here. It was a fairly desperate effort. The honourable member for Isaacs is a man of some sensitivity and even he does not like the brief that he has to carry on this occasion. 
-I would say this to my honourable colleague: I have no higher regard for that gentleman than I have for him. I would hope that when he seeks his promotion he will not necessarily have to rely on me for support. That still takes us back to the issues before this Parliament. As a member of this House I am grateful that all the evidence indicates that the industrial tribunals of this land pay very little regard for the meanderings and the exercises in political madness which take place in this Parliament and emanate from the Government side of the House. The reason is that they live in a situation where whatever the Prime Minister says, whatever the Minister for Industrial Relations says, whatever the honourable member for Isaacs says and whatever I say, they have to get on with the job of trying to solve industrial problems as they arise. By and large I believe that if one looks at the nature and the tenor of this document, it does not assist those tribunals in the difficult and complex tasks that they have to perform. Indeed, some of the utterances contained in this statement border on industrial and economic lunacy. 
Let me put the situation to the House. There is a problem involving the paint industry. What is this Government going to do? Dear me! The Minister's statement was a novel approach indeed. He said that the Government was going to deal with that problem by allowing the importation of paint from overseas without any tariff barriers. What a marvellous concept that is. I can just imagine the large retailers in my own city slobbering at the thought of it. Goodness me, if there were a stoppage in the textile industry, what a marvellous opportunity it would present. The retailers could say to the Minister for Industrial Relations, 'We have never had it so good. There is a stoppage in the textile industry. Lift all your tariff barriers.' Take the footwear industry as a further example. My God, if there were a stoppage in the footwear industry what profits would be made. 
Does any honourable member who knows anything about industrial relations seriously believe that in an industrial confrontation involving a strike this Government of industrial pygmies, who would not know how to solve an industrial stoppage, would under this novel concept lift the tariff barriers and bring in the goods from overseas? It is economic nonsense, it is tariff nonsense and it is political nonsense, just like the statement of the Minister. It makes no serious contribution to solving the problems of industrial relations. Its sole purpose is to bolster the Hamer Government in Victoria, a government which is now so desperate that not only will it not allow its own Parliament to meet but also will use its invidious pressures to get Commonwealth Ministers to make the sort of nonsense statements which have been made here today. Industrial problems are complex. They should not be hawked around this Commonwealth Parliament in an endeavour to save one of the most corrupt administrations ever to occupy the benches of a State parliament. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
1 ) What is the waiting time for patients with operable conditions for receiving a bed in a public ward in (a) St Vincents Hospital, (b) the Royal Melbourne Hospital, (c) Prince Henry Hospital and (d) the Alfred Hospital in Melbourne. 
In respect of each of these hospitals, what is the waiting time for patients with operable conditions seeking admission as private patients as at (a) 1 December 1977, (b)1 March 1978, (c) 1 June 1978 and (d) 1 September 1978. 
I do not propose to waste the time of the House in dealing with the virago of nonsense and half truths expressed by the honourable member for Ballarat  (Mr Short).  The reason that the honourable gentleman, who came into this House with a reputation as an economist, was not prepared to join issue with my colleague the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  to analyse the economic record of the Hamer Administration was that the honourable member knows that on any such analysis the Hamer Government has to stand condemned. So the honourable gentleman chose to endeavour to resurrect the old red bogy and the old fears of 1955. One might well ask why a man with his academic accomplishments chose to develop that line in defence of the Hamer government. The answer is simply that any honourable member on the other side of the House, no matter how dedicated a Liberal he might be, finds it exceedingly difficult to defend the corrupt maladministration which has taken place in Victoria over the past five years. 
In the time available to me I want simply to reiterate the facts, not as alleged by me but as found by  Mr Justice  Gowans. I want to deal very quickly with the economic expertise, the maladministration and, indeed, the corruption of the Hamer Administration. In 1973 the Victorian Housing Commission bought 3,346 acres of land at Pakenham, Melton and Sunbury for $ 10.6m. During the preceding year this land had been bought by middle-men and companies from farmers for $5. 9m. In less than a year more than $4.7m disappeared into the pockets of agents, developers and speculators. Five years later there has not been a single home built on that land, there has not been a single allotment up for sale- and this at a time when there are still 18,000 people on the Housing Commission's waiting list seeking accommodation. Much of the land at Pakenham for which $2. 5m was paid was subject to flooding. I know that two-thirds of it is now being re-zoned for farming use only. 
But what did  Mr Justice  Gowans find? He found as a fact that too much was paid for this land- and let me quote him- 'so that the vendors or their intermediaries achieve rewards in excess of what the community thought was fair'. There are two levels of guilt in respect of the Gowans' finding. The first level of guilt, of course, rests on the developers and speculators who milked the public purse, in some cases, on his findings, clearly as a result of what constituted corrupt practices. So there is a level of guilt there that is not denied. The other level of guilt - 
But the other level of guilt, sir - 
-Sir, he just walked into the House. 
He has not been in the chamber to hear the debate. 
He has not been here for the debate. 

 Government supporters interjecting- 

-Sir, the second level of guilt rests with a Cabinet whose philosophy and criminal negligence allowed these abuses to occur in the first place. Of course  Mr Justice  Gowans - 
-Sir, it was not open to or possible for  Mr Justice  Gowans to indict the Cabinet as such because that was outside his terms of reference. But the reality- the social reality and the political reality- is, of course, that none of these transactions could ever have taken place without the generous assistance of the State Cabinet, and that is the fact. It is that assistance, which in many cases involved re-zoning applications, and the abandonment of publicly stated guidelines that allowed millions and millions of dollars to be taken out of the public purse. 
That leads me to the point that I want to make. It is perfectly true that no individual Minister was found guilty of taking a bribe. Let me say this from my knowledge of Ministers of the Victorian Cabinet: I would not have ever expected such a finding because that is not the way it works in Victoria. 
Let us lay it on the line. In May 1977 the balance sheets of the Victorian Liberal Party were tabled in the Victorian Parliament. These documents showed that the Victorian Liberal Party after two years of the most expensive elections on record had investments of over $1.3m. They did not get that sort of money by running flower stalls or raffling bottles of beer. What occurs in Victoria is this: Those gentlemen, including land developers, who run their own businesses who are on the receiving end of government contracts as a result of the very generous treatment they get from the government, would never dream of giving a Minister a bribe. That is far too crude. What one does is to make a donation to the slush fund of the Liberal Party. I invite the honourable gentleman opposite to get up and deny that this has not been done by some of the people who were mentioned in the Gowans inquiry. Let them get up and say that these people have never made a donation to the Liberal Party. Of course they have. 
At the present time the Liberal Party in Victoria is engaged in spending over $500,000 which has been contributed in this way from its business friends who have lived fat and well out of the public purse in order to save what has to be- and this on the record- one of the most corrupt governments in the history of Australia. That is an indictment - 

 Government supporters interjecting- 

Let me put it as quietly as I can. The evidence is there - 
The money was used. The evidence is there that people close to the Liberal Party have received considerable benefits from a whole range of government contracts, quite apart from land deals. There is no argument that the slush funds of the Liberal Party stand at over $ lm. I invite the people of Victoria to draw their own conclusions. I have no doubt that on 5 May they will cast a vote to restore honesty and integrity to the government of Victoria and return a Wilkes government. 
I direct a question to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that, as a result of investigations made by taxation officers following land scandals in Victoria, the taxation officers recommended that proceedings be instituted to recover the sums of approximately $770,000 and $32,000 due to the Commonwealth by way of arrears and understatement from two citizens who figured prominently in that inquiry? Does the Treasurer agree that such recommendations lend support to the allegation that disclosures to date in respect of land scandals in Victoria are merely the tip of the iceberg? Finally, is it also a fact that, in order to save any political embarrassment to the Hamer Government, action in respect of both these matters has been delayed until after the forthcoming Victorian State elections? 
I desire to raise a matter of some concern to Commonwealth employees located in Melbourne. I find it surprising and incredible that a government of this political complexion which talks about and against the evils of centralism seems to be hell-bent on transferring whole sections of important government departments from major metropolitan centres, where they are immensely relevant to both the business community and the provision of services, to Canberra. I refer particularly to the problems which now face employees in the Department of Employment and Youth 
Affairs who have been requested to transfer to Canberra. Many of these employees were in the former Department of Employment and Industrial Relations whose central office was in Melbourne. By virtue of their location in that city they were much closer to the problems of industry and management. They feel that that caused them to make far more accurate predictions about the problems in employment and the management of the economy than came from some of their counterparts in Canberra. Industry needs to have dealings with the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs and Melbourne is close to a large amount of industry, both manufacturing and tertiary. Industry certainly needs to have that close contact. Apart from that aspect, there will be considerable personal problems faced by Commonwealth employees who are asked suddenly to shift home to Canberra for purposes which I believe ultimately will operate against the efficiency of the Department. 
It is equally serious that this principle is also operating in the Department of Transport in respect of the Flying Operations and Airworthiness Division. That Division, which does not have dealings with Parliament or with Ministers, has to operate out of the larger metropolitan areas of either Melbourne or Sydney by virtue of the fact that, in order to fulfil its task of establishing the principles of aircraft safety, it needs to be in close contact with the two major airports. Any parliamentarian who has to suffer the problems of getting in an out of this place knows that to take the Flying Operations and Airworthiness Division out of a major centre such as Melbourne or Sydney and transfer it to Canberra is an exercise in centralism and political madness. Anything up to 50 per cent of the Division's experienced and dedicated officers, who are men of great talent and capacity in this area, have already indicated that for family reasons they would not be prepared to make that transfer. 
Given the problems in maintaining the continued effectiveness of air safety, it seems to me to be imprudent to the point of stupidity to decrease efficiency, to increase costs and to prejudice aviation safety by insisting that these men, who are performing their functions satisfactorily and well, who need to be close to a whole range of technical facilities and who need to be at major airports where there is a vast range of aircraft, shift their families and homes to Canberra in order to comply with some very centralised bureaucratic concept. I ask the relevant Ministers whether they can re-examine this situation in terms of this Government's political philosophy. 
I should think that it is the view of the vast majority of honourable members of this House that one of the problems in Australia at present is that there are too many public servants in Canberra and that too many important decisions are made on the basis of centralised decision-making which is completely remote from what is happening in the real world. I ask the Minister to make a major reassessment of this decision. 
-I have no doubt that the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  is right when he says that the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  will be defeated, Honourable members know it will be defeated not because of a lack of intrinsic merit in the argument but because, at the appropriate time, the bells will ring and members of the Government will troop into this House and put up their hands. It is a matter of some regret that the substance of the argument which was put forward on behalf of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  was not joined by the honourable member for Denison. 
For the last 18 months the Government has been harping to the people of Australia about the need for economic sacrifice, despite considerable divisions within its own ranks because as part of its view of economic sacrifice it refused to index pensions. Time and again the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has indicated that the Government will take a very stern attitude to what it regards as sweetheart industrial agreements reached between employers on the one hand and unions on the other. This Government says that under no circumstances will it approve sweetheart agreements and that it will take any action it can within the framework of the Constitution to deal with any employer or union that comes to sweetheart arrangements. It says that it does not want to be a pacesetter but it adopts a standard whereby judges of the High Court of Australia and the Federal courts will receive not long service leave but payments in lieu of long service leave calculated on the basis of 5.2 weeks for each year of service. This is at a time when those in the Public Service, which sets a reasonable standard- it is not an inappropriate standard- receive payment on the basis of nine days a year. One is entitled to ask what were the criteria upon which this Government, which is pledged to the concept of economic sacrifice, decided that there was something so intrinsically meritorious in the position of judges of the Federal Court that they were entitled to receive payment in lieu of long service leave based upon a calculation of 5.2 weeks a year when no other level of the Public Service and no other industry in Australia is prepared to make a payment on that basis. 
What would the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  or the Prime Minister do if, tomorrow, the builders labourers, who happen to be a favourite target of this Government, were to reach an agreement with the building industry under which all builders labourers were entitled to a payment of 5.2 weeks a year in lieu of long service leave? The Prime Minister would walk in here, adjourn whatever debate was in progress and predict all sorts of dire consequences. I am not saying, and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is not saying, that judges of our courts are not entitled and should not be considered to be entitled to leave entitlements and long service leave. The whole social concept of long service leave was that it was precisely that- it was a period away from work which was based upon the length of service that was given. Indeed, many sections of the trade union movement argued strongly for many years that the ingredient of leave was far more important than the ingredient of payment. We have now come to the stage where this Government has made a sacrifice by saying: 'We are not going to argue seriously about the question of leave. We are just going to make an additional payment '. 
It is perfectly true that a far more acceptable principle is that whatever our judges are paid ought to be governed by statute. It is certainly preferable as a matter of principle that whatever entitlements they receive are based on statutes and not based on any exercise of discretion by the Executive. The basis of the amendment of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition is the fact that when one looks at the question of long service leave, when it concerns judges, no matter how eminent they are or how high a position they occupy, one is not entitled to say: 'We will cast aside the normal principles upon which any government ought responsibly to look at the question of long service leave'. I suppose that by tradition all lawyers have a high regard for convention, but in recent times some very eminent lawyers holding very exalted positions were prepared to throw conventions out the window. These same gentlemen and others now tell us that on the basis that the present formula is appropriate all the Governments needs to do is to put the formula into legislation and everybody will be happy. The Opposition is not happy. It is not prepared to accept this formula as a proper standard to apply to the judiciary, particularly at a time when every other section of the community is being called upon to make economic sacrifices. 
My heart bled during the statements of the honourable member for Denison, when he spoke of people going on to the Bench of the High Court of Australia receiving a reduction in salary and I suppose it is perfectly true that prominent constitutional silks earning up to $100,000 or $150,000 a year receive a drop in salary on their elevation, but they know that when they take the job. There are those who would argue that in the first place, the income these prominent people receive is far too high, having regard to their real role in and the contribution they make to the community. To say that there has been a reduction in salary, that we as a parliament should close our eyes to the principle upon which long service leave entitlements ought to be paid in this community and to the principle of long service leave as a concept, because we are dealing with these exalted gentleman who sit on the Bench, I do not believe is a standard that is appropriate to this Parliament. 
I believe that there could be a lot more argument about the desirability of our judges in the High Court and federal courts taking their long service leave. It has not been unknown that members of the High Court and other members of the judiciary, are from time to time invited to visit, open and participate in law conventions. It is not unknown that many law schools throughout the world would be only too happy to have a judge of any of our federal courts as a visiting fellow. Given the movement that is taking place and the social pressures that are being generated within our community I would have thought that there were compelling reasons for all judges to be given long service leave after an appropriate period of service, but given that leave so that they can free themselves from the pressures of sitting in a court on a day-to-day basis. They could sit back, pause, reflect and think about the changes in society, as there are pressures imposed on those who have the heavy responsibility for interpreting our laws and trying to make the laws work in a way that is appropriate to meet the needs of our community. 
I would have thought that there were compelling arguments indeed for saying that some of our judges ought to be encouraged to take long service leave, and to use that leave to take the opportunity of broadening their special, political and economic horizons. I do not believe that it is a desirable principle for this Parliament to say simply that because the judges have been put in a system which works to their benefit, a system which on any view of it, is out of proportion to what occurs in every other economic sector of society, that because it is dealing with judges, no matter how eminent, it is all right for them, but it is not all right for the plumber, the fitter and turner, the public servant or other members of our society. That is the basis of the Opposition's objection to this piece of legislation. I believe it is a principled objection. I believe that it is an objection which, if looked at and the merits of our argument closely examined, will ultimately prove to the benefit of the judiciary. 
There is a feeling about this legislation that a system is being created whereby any of those who hold this exalted position can grab the money and run if they wish. That is not good enough in this society. It is certainly not good enough for those who have the very heavy and onerous task of interpreting our laws. Again I would like to remind this House that the pensioners in this community have been told that because of problems in the economy and the economic sacrifice that we all must make, they are not entitled to have their pensions indexed. It is not good enough for those many thousands of Australian citizens who are living below the poverty line and who are to be kept below the poverty line because this is a government which believes in economic sacrifice. It is not good enough for this nation, which almost on a weekly basis moves into yet another area of industrial confrontation, as unionists will not readily accept that their living standards ought to be lowered because this Government has a view of economic sacrifice. 
This legislation should have given an opportunity to this Parliament and this Government to establish a very important principle on long service leave. It would have been a superb opportunity for this Parliament to say quite clearly to the rest of the community that when we are talking about economic sacrifice in this community that sacrifice ought to start at the top; the more exalted the position, the higher the level of salary, if we are serious about economic sacrifice, that is where sacrifice ought to start. I believe that this legislation will not rebound to the credit of the Government. It will not rebound to the credit of this Parliament and, unfortunately, it will not rebound to the credit of our judiciary. I think the Government had an opportunity but it has taken the easy way out. It has taken the way out which will not not have much appeal to those citizens in Australian society who believe that there has to be a measure of social justice in our community, that economic sacrifice ought to begin at the highest levels of our community, and not at the bottom. For that reason this legislation, which will be passed because at the appropriate time the bells will ring, will do nothing to convince the average citizen in Australia that there is within the framework of this Government one rule for the rich and those that have and another rule for the poor, who are not only poor but will continue to be poor as long as this Government has its way. 
I want to express my concern at the fact that the Government has used its numbers to gag this debate. 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
Yes,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I second the motion. In addressing the House on this matter, one has to condemn the actions of the Government and of the Government Whip, who continually abuses the processes of this Parliament. 
That the question be now put. 
.- The basis of the Opposition 's - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put.  (  Mr Deputy Speaker- Mr P.  H. Drummond ) 
Ayes.......... 69 
Noes.......... 28 
Majority........ 41 

<graphic href="114131197905093_52_0_1_A.jpg"></graphic>

Question so resolved in the affirmative. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Keating's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
-In speaking in favour of the amendment moved- 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 

 - Mr Speaker, I rise to express some views on this matter, by virtue of the implication that was put to you at Question Time today, namely that the improper use of the forms of the House last night disrupted the proceedings of a legislation committee. I want to draw your attention,  Sir, and  that of the House to what in fact happened last night. 
If I might refer indirectly to the matter as it stands, it and the statement made by the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  arose out of incidents that took place last night. I do not want to turn it into a major issue, but I think it is important to note that, although the Leader of the House said that it is important for the legislation committee system to work- I agree with that- it is not as important as seeing that this House functions properly. The prime duty of a member of this House is to see that the House functions properly. When an issue as important as the Atomic Energy Act comes on for debate, when five honourable members on this side of the House and three honourable members on the other side of the House are listed to speak, and when the debate is proceeding normally on an issue in relation to which there is genuine division and concern in the Australian community, the House cannot function in the circumstance of the Government Whip, acting either on whim - 
-Since that is the view you take,  Mr Speaker,  let me put my case in another way. I want to make my position perfectly clear. When there is an arbitrary use of the gag to prevent debate when arrangements have been made for honourable members to speak- I for one was affected that way- I do not propose as a member of this Parliament to co-operate with the Government in any way at all. If I find myself in the situation where I feel my rights are being abused- I know other members of the Opposition feel the same way- it is my intention - 
Clauses 1 to 3 involve the basic principles of this Bill. I ask members of the Committee to pause and ask themselves the simple question: On what basis were royalties paid in the first place to Aboriginal communities in respect of the use of their land by mining companies? It is extraordinary that a government which has spent some time and money through the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in an endeavour to establish within the community the very special relationship that exists between art Aboriginal and his land should introduce this legislation. That relationship, which is part of the total being of an Aboriginal, has absolutely no counterpart in Western culture. Having acknowledged that, every member of the Committee would accept that, in respect of every negotiated agreement with Aboriginal communities, the original position of the Aboriginal people was that they did not want mining in any shape or form on their land. However, they found themselves negotiating from a position of very considerable disadvantage because of pressures from government and companies. In that situation, regardless of the expertise upon which they could call, their original resentment that their land was being taken from them and was being used in this way was not overcome. 
I make that point because in our community if the government of the day decides that it will compulsorily acquire a house or a property for its own use, whatever payment is made to the owner of that house or land is made on the basis of compensation, and as compensation it is clearly not taxable. I believe that the basis upon which payments were made to the Aboriginal people was seen clearly by them, and by the Government initially, I believe, as compensation for being deprived of the use of their land. They also saw it as compensation for the problems which would arise subsequently for their communities by virtue of the attitude of this Government, the attitude of a dominant Western-oriented community which says: 'There is mineral wealth in your land and, no matter what you say, it is going to be developed. Of course we recognise that you have some claims in respect of it, but we will pay you compensation. ' 
There is no other area of our law in which compensation is treated in that way. If any honourable member on the other side of the chamber were to be injured in an accident when he left this building tonight he would receive compensation for his  injuries  and that compensation would not be taxable. The attitude of  Mr Zorn,  the person who negotiated on behalf of the Aboriginals, is perfectly clear. He concedes that the amounts that were extracted for and on behalf of the Aboriginal communities were very low when compared with the results of other negotiations in which he was involved on behalf of tribal groups such as Indians in the United States of America. He justified his acceptance of the low level of those payments on the basis that the mining companies were making contributions also for the preservation of the environment. It is equally true that had this Government made clear the extent to which it intended to tax these Aboriginal communities, at that point of time those communities and  Mr Zorn  might well have argued for a greater level of compensation. I believe that involves a second aspect of this legislation which ought to make it anathema to every member of this chamber. It is bad enough to tax people for what is in essence a compensation payment, but the Government is to tax them retrospectively. That is what has occurred in this situation, and I find it extraordinary. In almost every issue of the  Australian Financial Review  and many of the other financial journals one will find advertisements by professional accountants and other people advising individuals in our community how they can avoid paying income tax. 
If Aboriginal communities had been confronted with the extent to which the Government was to try to extract further funds from them by the sort of exercise which has bedevilled them since white settlers first came to Australia, whereby we give with one hand and take away with the other, does anybody seriously believe that at the time those contracts were being negotiated there would not have been available to the Aboriginal communities the same sort of income tax expertise which is available to large corporate structures or wealthy private individuals to write those contracts in a way which would have made it perfectly clear that what was being paid was a capital amount by way of compensation which, therefore, was not taxable? Of course, that would have been possible. For those reasons members of the Opposition believe that these Bills are bad in principle. 
On any view, Aboriginal communities in Australia are amongst the most deprived of our citizens. Having recognised their rights on the one hand and their particular relationship with the land on the other hand, the Government said to them: 'Although you, as communities, are reluctant to have mining companies cutting a swath across your land and plundering it for whatever mineral wealth is there, whether or not you like it the only thing that is open to you to negotiate is how much compensation you will get. ' Having created that situation, some months afterwards the Government said to them: Having got the compensation fixed, the amount that you believed you were going to get, the amount that you believed you were going to have in your hand by way of compensation, is going to be taken from you. ' This Government has now found it necessary to say to the communities that they will be taxed on these amounts. They will be large and significant amounts. As I said earlier, this is simply an exercise by the Government of seeming to give with one hand and taking away with the other. 
The principle involved in this legislation is a bad principle. I do not see how the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  can rail, as he has done from time to time, at any concept of a capital gains tax, because the only capital that Aboriginal communities have is their land, and by virtue of the usage of that land they are to be placed in a special position in which no other group in Australian society has yet been placed. This is the first group which is going to have to pay tax on payments which are essentially compensation. I reject that principle and I reject the concept of retrospectivity that is involved, I believe that those dual principles are dangerous principles to establish. I do not think that they are good principles to operate in terms of a dominant white community. But the adoption of them in terms of Aboriginal communities- most of which are struggling and deprived communities- is another example of a swindle being performed on Aboriginal communities by a government which, while talking about Aboriginal rights and sensitivity in understanding their problems, is prepared in the final analysis to give with one hand and to take away with the other. 
I second the amendment,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  In doing so, I direct my remarks to what I believe is an example of the failure of the Government and its attempt to mislead the Parliament and to mislead the people of Australia in the important area of defence procurement. It is, I think, well known in this Parliament that from time to time the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  has indicated that it is the Government's objective in respect of defence procurements to secure for local industry in Australia offset contracts which constitute some 30 per cent of the procurement policy pursued by the Government in respect of Department of Defence purchases. 
The failure of the Government to implement effectively its own stated objectives of Australian industry participation through offset contracts has cost local industry about $2 94m. The Government and the Department of Defence had a stated policy of 30 per cent offsets for Australian manufacturing industry, which simply meant that, as a condition of buying expensive overseas hardware for defence purposes, there had to be a 30 per cent work content available to local industry. The Department of Defence and the Minister have deliberately endeavoured to create the belief that the 30 per cent content has been achieved and maintained. The Department of Defence has been extraordinarily reluctant, as has the Minister, to provide the Parliament with the detailed information by which the Department's performance can be measured against objective standards. Over the last eight years, total overseas purchases for offset credits which should  bave  been available to Australian industry totalled in all some $1,7 13m. I rely for that figure on an answer to a question directed by me to all Government Ministers and which in effect was provided by the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee).  I seek leave of the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Groom),  who is at the table, to incorporate the answer of the Minister for Defence, the Minister for Productivity and a table which virtually takes those figures and does some subtractions and additions which prove my assertion. 
In the detailed answer provided by the Minister for Productivity, he indicated, in a very candid way, that the total purchases over the last eight years amounted to $ 1 ,7 1 3m. I seek leave to incorporate the question and answer in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Department of Productivity: Contracts (Question No. 1794) 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 22 August 1978: 
1 ) How many contracts entered into by Departments and Statutory Corporations under his control for the purchase of equipment, contained clauses specifying an offset arrangement with the vendor for the purchase of Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology during the last 10 years. 
What were those contracts. 
What was the sum involved in each offset clause and what weje the terms of its discharge. 
What is the extent to which the terms of these clauses have been implemented specifying in each case the monetary value of the implementation. 
What sum is currently available under these clauses for the purchase of relevant Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology. 
For the purpose of answering the series of questions 1773-1799 as Minister responsible for the Department administering and co-ordinating the Offset Program I have provided information which was sought from the other Ministers to whom the question was directed with the exception of the Minister for Defence. 
My colleague, the Minister for Defence, will provide a detailed reply to question number 1 773 regarding offset obligations required and discharged for major defence purchases. 
I will therefore confine my answer to the contracts entered into by other Departments and associated statutory bodies and the offsets generated in this regard up to 30 September 1978. 
The Australian Offsets Program has its origin in a decision by the Australian Government in 1970 to require that offset orders be placed in Australia against major Government purchases of overseas manufactured equipment. Offsets were first sought against purchases of defence equipment and civil aircraft. The program was later extended to include other major purchases by the Government including computers, telecommunications and electronic equipment. It aims principally to stimulate technological advancement in Australian industries and to broaden the capabilities of industries of strategic significance. 
It achieves its objectives by obtaining tasks that either stimulate continuing activities in the same field of technology as the equipment being purchased or that result in a transfer of technology in areas of significance to Australian defence or industrial development. Other factors taken into consideration are the extent to which Australian design and development resources can be utilised and the workload that can be obtained for underutilised sectors of industry of technological or strategic significance. 
Tasks undertaken include involvement in part production programs were overseas contractors arrange for Australian industry to participate in the manufacture of selected assemblies or sub-assemblies of the prime equipment being purchased. Co-production programs are also undertaken where items are manufactured in conjunction with the overseas supplier either for domestic and overseas use or the latter alone. In some instances Australian firms have succeeded in becoming the sole suppliers of certain items. 
The program also seeks to obtain collaborative tasks which involve overseas and Australian firms participating in the conceptual, design, development and production stages of a project. 
Encouragement is also given to the purchase of Australian products of defence or technological significance by overseas firms or Governments. Commercial items that normally have ready overseas markets and purchases of primary and mineral products do not qualify as offsets. 
Since its inception in 1970 the program in total, including Defence buys, has resulted in offsets for Australia amounting to more than $220m. In some cases overseas companies have placed orders in Australia as offsets which because of their nature will be spread over a number of years. These are included in the above figure. Most offset work has gone to the aircraft industry with computer and electronic firms benefiting to a lesser extent. 
While overseas companies are required to submit appropriate offset proposals before being awarded a major Government contract a number of companies have placed approved offset work on Australian industry without commitment. These overseas companies build up an offset credit which can be used if and when the company tenders for and obtains a contract against which offsets are required. 
It should be emphasised that the Offset Program is not an isolated means for obtaining workload for significant sections of Australian industry. In defence and public communication spheres conditions are written into contracts where appropriate, requiring that certain tasks and work content be undertaken locally. In other situations licence agreements are entered into which permit the production in Australia of specific equipment such as military aircraft, arms and ammunition and patrol craft. The Offset Program complements these arrangements by ensuring that workload is obtained relating to equipment that cannot at this point in time, for good reasons, be manufactured in Australia. 
1 ) During the eight years over which the Offset Program has operated, a total of 33 contracts incurring an offset obligation have been entered into by Departments and Statutory Bodies. 
Contracts have covered major purchases such as civil aircraft bought by TAA, Qantas and Ansett, simulators for civil airline pilot training and computers for use by Government Departments and Statutory Bodies. Details of the value of contracts entered into are contained in the summary below. 
Offsets are negotiated in a competitive situation. Details of the individual arrangements between overseas and local firms and the exact type and value of work placed in Australia are treated as company confidential. 
However the offsets generated against overseas orders have been of considerable benefit to Australian industry. While explicit details cannot be given it can be stated that aircraft component manufacture (including wing flaps, rudders, elevators, doors and escape systems for Boeing, Douglas and Fokker aircraft) is being successfully undertaken in Australia. 
Against computer purchases offset orders have been obtained for terminal manufacture, software development and component design and development. In addition offset work has also been generated in the telecommunication field in areas such as component manufacture, radar modules and electronic simulator production. 
Individual offset obligations against each contract let are a matter of discreet negotiations between the parties concerned- namely, the overseas prime supplier and the local firm receiving the offset order. Overseas tenderers are required to submit proposals for offset work to be placed in Australia to a substantial percentage of the value of the overseas order- nominally 30 per cent. This may include partproduction of the prime equipment, co-production to satisfy larger markets, or the reciprocal purchase of goods and services of Australian origin. Offset credit is also allowed for the value of transferred technology, the waiver of licence fees, manufacturing rights and royalty payments and the like. 
It is the practice with any major purchase to try to finalise offset arrangements so that all details can be included in the contract. Where this is not possible, contractors must enter into a firm commitment to continue to try to place work in Australia up to the target level. 
Because of the confidential nature of offset negotiations and the manner by which some firms place work far in excess of immediate requirements it is not possible to identify individual offset achievements against the various contracts entered into by the Government. 
The Australian Offset Program is an ongoing scheme in which offsets are negotiated against individual contracts let, or anticipated. 
Offsets placed in Australia as a result of the program sometimes exceed the value of offsets sought. This credit can be utilised against future orders. 
In other situations there is a considerable time span between the placement of an order requiring offsets and the discharge of the offset obligation. In these cases an early comparison of offsets owed and those actually received would infer that a considerable offset debt exists with respect to certain individual contracts. This assumption should not lead to the conclusion that the full amount of the offset obligation will not ultimately be met. 
In general it can be stated that the Offset Program in its eight years of operation has been a success. In this period more that $220m worth of offsets have been placed in Australia. As well as providing invaluable workload these offsets have stimulated the technological and managerial capabilities of Australian industry. 

<graphic href="114131197905233_62_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="114131197905233_63_0.jpg"></graphic>

It is interesting that it took the Minister for Defence, with all the resources of his Department, more than six months to provide any reply at all and the answer that was provided was in fact no answer at all. The Minister chose, after six months, not to provide the sort of basic information which I believe ought to be available to every member of this House. On the grounds of confidentiality and the necessity for considerable research to be undertaken in order to supply the answers, no figure was given for offsets obtained. I seek leave to incorporate that question and answer in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- (Question No. 1773) 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 22 August 1978: 
1 ) With respect to Government policy that 30 per cent of all defence purchases should be offered for Australian industrial participation, how many contracts entered into by his Department for the purchase of defence or other equipment, contained clauses specifying an offset arrangement with the vendor for the purchase of Australian manufactured goods, components and /or technology during the last 10 years. 
2 ) What were those contracts. 
What was the sum involved in each offset clause and what were the terms of discharge. 
What is the extent to which the terms of these clauses have been implemented, specifying in each case the monetary value of the implementation. 
What sum is currently available under these clauses for the purchase of relevant Australian manufactured goods, components and/or technology. 
The honourable gentleman will appreciate that an answer to his question would involve very considerable research. 
The Government endeavours to ensure that there is an appropriate level of Australian industry participation in all defence purchases. This level is usually much higher than 30 per cent for the many purchases made in Australia. Where major purchases are not made in Australia, local participation is sought through offset orders for which a target of 30 per cent of the overseas content is commonly set. 
An explanation of the policy has been given by my colleague, the Minister for Productivity in his answer to Question No. 1774-1799. 
No contracts signed before March 1970 contained clauses concerning offset arrangements. Current Departmental Instructions require that each proposed major Defence purchase from overseas sources be examined to ensure that opportunities for Australian industry participation are fully explored. 
The more significant contracts entered into since March 1970 incorporating provisions for offset work include the following items: 
Chinook Helicopters 
Sea King Helicopters 
Submarine Fire Control Equipment 
Naval Combat Data Systems 
Replacement ESM Equipment 
Computers for Defence (several) 
Destroyers FFG-0 1 and 02 
Destroyer FFG-03 
Long Range Maritime Patrol Aircraft 
Leopard Tanks 
C130H Aircraft 
Rapier SurfacetoAir Guided Weapon Systems 
Air Surveillance Radars 
Patrol Craft 
Oberon Submarines 
A more detailed listing is not readily available and would require considerable research to prepare. 
As explained by my colleague, the Minister for Productivity, details of the individual Arrangements between overseas and local firms are treated as company confidential. 
The total value of offset work placed in Australian industry since March 1 970 is more than $220m, which includes a significant element resulting from Defence contracts. 
It is not feasible to attribute this figure to particular purchases or even to Civil and Defence categories. Suppliers are permitted to aggregate offset obligations against all purchases including civil and Defence contracts and they continue to place work in Australia against a combined total. Further, some firms have built up offset credits in advance of the receipt of Government equipment orders, against which they can draw to meet the attendant offset requirements. 
My colleague, the Minister for Productivity, who is responsible for the administration of the Offset Program has provided a full answer on this point. 
I find it extraordinary that, in respect of a question on notice, the Minister and  his Department can treat any member of this Parliament in such a cavalier manner when some months previously an officer of the Department, a  Mr Don  Eltringham, in an article written for the  Age  endeavoured to explain government policy on offset purchases. He stated in that article that $2 14m was the total in offset orders against defence purchases since the offset policy was adopted. One is entitled to pose the question: If  Mr Eltringham  knew that information- it was available and could be made available in an article given to the Press- why, when a member of this Parliament sought that sort of basic information from the Minister for Defence, did it take six months to provide an answer which suggested that this basic information was not available to a member of parliament because of confidentiality and because of the amount of research that would be involved? I say to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that if you were running a business and you were owed many millions of dollars by someone who had purchased goods from you, you would know fairly accurately how much money you were owed and you would know fairly accurately the terms of the contract and the amounts that you would be entitled to recoup under those contracts. But that, we are told, is not the position with the Department of Defence. 
I direct the attention of the House to a table which I have made available to the Minister. It demonstrates a fairly simple exercise in arithmetic. I ask leave to incorporate the table in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="114131197905233_64_3.jpg"></graphic>

Note: The figures for Defence expenditure are from reports covering financial years. The figures given by the Minister for Productivity begin in January 1970, therefore there is a difference of 6 months in the time covered. 
Australian defence purchases from 1970-71 to 1977-78 constituted $ 1,243m. Total other overseas government expenditure was $470.38m. That brought the total supplied by the Minister for Productivity $1,7 13m. If government policy of a 30 per cent offset credit had been maintained, contracts worth $5 14m should have been placed with local Australian industry. According to the statements made by an officer of the Department of Defence, the value of the offsets achieved was only $220m. That meant that the value of offset liabilities which were not fulfilled was $294m, and that is a lot of money. 
Given the problems in our economy, the problems of finding employment for our young people and the problems of introducing new technology, that is a source of funding which Australian manufacturing industry at every level cannot afford to forgo. When one looks at it as a percentage of total government purchases it is nonsense to say, as has been suggested by the Minister for Defence in his glib handling of this matter, that we have maintained an offset purchasing component of around 30 per cent. On those figures it is probably closer to 1 2 per cent or 13 per cent. When the Minister says that we have maintained a level of offsets of around 30 per cent one is entitled to ask: Does he not know the facts or is he concerned to mislead the Parliament deliberately? 
What has occurred in the past is that the Defence Department has entered into contracts for sophisticated and expensive hardware without first ensuring the degree and extent to which Australian industry could participate. To gear up to meet areas of new technology often involves considerable capital expenditure by local manufacturers who are then told that they cannot tender competitively against prices from overseas companies which have already absorbed the capital cost of new technology. It is as simple as that. Some of the sophisticated hardware can cost millions of dollars and obviously the Defence Department wants the most sophisticated equipment it can get. It enters into contracts on the basis that 30 per cent of the total value will be made available to Australian industry through tender. But to put in a tender the Australian manufacturer often has to spend considerable capital in acquiring sophisticated machinery and he has to equip himself with new technology. There is no way that he can competitively tender against an overseas company which has already gone into  the area and, in the production of the commodity which the Defence Department is buying, has written off the cost of its capital equipment. Then it becomes a matter of the Defence Department and the Minister saying to the Australian manufacturer. 'You have not met the offset conditions required because you have not put in a competitive tender.' The implications of that both for Australian manufacturing industry and our own defence requirements can be tragic. 
It is not sufficient surely one does not have to labour this point in the House to get the latest and most fashionable aeroplane, tank or ship. There has to be a back-up service and a capacity within our own people to service and maintain the equipment and keep it in the field. One has only to look at the extent to which it is possible for the Defence Department, on the basis of security, to resist any objective standards by which its procurement policy can be objectively tested. As a nation obtaining more sophisticated defence equipment, we have to ask ourselves whether our local manufacturing industries are geared, equipped and able to participate in the continuing manufacture of some of the components involved and, more importantly, whether they are able and have the resources to keep that equipment functional and in service in a crisis. Given the approach of both the Minister for Defence and his Department, these are questions which cannot be effectively asked in this House simply by virtue of the fact that the Department refuses to make available to the average member of this House the basic information which allows for any proper assessment and consideration of the appropriate standards. 
Questions which deserve proper answers are treated to a glib exercise in generalities. The Defence Department hopes that the member concerned will say: 'I will have to be content with that because I am not likely to get any more information.' That is a standard which ought to be completely unacceptable to the Parliament. One has only to look at a recent fashionable journal of political comment to find a twopage spread which is virtually a public relations shopping list which indicates that all is well with Defence Department procurement and that Australian manufacturing industry is doing very well through existing Government policy. If it is good enough for the Defence Department to involve itself in that kind of specious public relations exercise because it can see some benefit flowing to it, it ought to be good enough for that basic information to be made available to members of Parliament. I am not talking about members on this side of the House. I am talking about making the Parliament responsible in carrying out its duties and seeing that this monolithic structure which has to play a critical role in the defence of the nation is responsive and responsible to the Parliament. 
The figures that have been extracted indicate as glib an exercise in political deceit as it is possible to imagine. I do not know the extent to which the Minister is involved. The Defence Department must be impossible to run but I believe that to lend himself to what has occurred in this situation constitutes very real problems for the Parliament. More importantly, it would lead any honourable member to the view that the Defence Department cannot and should not be accepted as fulfilling its very important role. Some real cognisance has to be had of the problems which are currently bedevilling Australian manufacturing industry and of the need to examine completely the role that Australian manufacturing industry will play in our future defence requirements. It is all very well to talk about the purchase of a new tactical fighter force. 
Debate interrupted. 
At a time when this Government is looking at potential expenditure of over $2,000m on the purchase of a tactical fighter force, we as a parliament have to be satisfied that there exists within the structure of our Department of Defence an awareness and a realisation of the role that Australian manufacturing industry can and has to play. Certainly on the track record, as I have exposed it in the House today, I for one am far from satisfied. I do not believe we can any longer deal in generalities. I think there has to be an objective appraisal of what is occurring in the whole area of defence policy procurement. I for one am not satisfied, for example, that given the competitiveness that now exists among overseas suppliers in terms of the supply of a tactical fighter force, that by hard bargaining and proper involvement of our defence manufacturing industries we are not able to produce in Australia an industry with more than the 30 per cent content. 
We ought to be asking ourselves in this new situation whether a 30 per cent content is still appropriate, but when we ask that question it is necessary for the Department of Defence and the Minister to indicate to the House not glib generalities but the appropriate mechanisms, structures and methods by which he as a Minister and his Department will be operating in this area. The Australian taxpayer is entitled to have some knowledge that he is getting the very best in terms of defence equipment for the dollar that he as a taxpayer has to pay. Certainly we have a monolithic structure, a structure that is unresponsive, and the figures that I have made available to the House prove not only that Australia is not maintaining a level of off-set procurement at 30 per cent but also that it is not reaching even half that level. It is not good enough for the Minister or the Department to engage in what is little better than a public relations exercise designed to deceive the Parliament and the people of Australia. The issues we are dealing with go to the future defence of this nation, which is one area about which we are entitled to have frankness from the Minister, honesty from the Department and some integrity so that we as a Parliament will know that what is being pursued in terms of government policy is not only realistic and will meet the needs of this nation in terms of its defence requirements but, more importantly, will involve some real and meaningful involvement in the purchase of new technologies, the expansion of our own manufacturing base and the provision of - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr McLean)  adjourned. 
-I refer the Prime Minister to the fact that health care cost charges in the 1976 Budget added to the consumer price index and were consequently discounted for tax indexation purposes. Did the changes for funding health care announced in the 1978 Budget reduce the consumer price index? Did the Treasurer's statement to Parliament last Thursday take no account of this item in determining the tax indexation factor for 1979-80? Can the Prime Minister inform the House why this important factor which would bring substantial benefits to all taxpayers was omitted from the Treasurer's package last Thursday. 
It is appropriate that the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  should finish his somewhat eloquent speech on behalf of the Government by talking about fertiliser. When we listened to the honourable gentleman he told us that all these problems were caused by the Iranians and the unemployed. Of course, that slotted in very nicely with the position of other spokesmen who have spoken on behalf of the Government and who have, in turn, blamed the operation of western capitalism, the trade unions or any other person in this society. The only people they have not been prepared to blame are, of course, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the members of his Government. 
There are two issues in this debate apart from the principles enunciated by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard).  The first concerns the question of the credibility of this Government and second concerns its economic management. There has been an odd development in political morality in this debate because what we are told by those few spokesmen whom the Government can force into standing up to defend the statement made by the Treasurer is, of course, that we must all pay plaudits to this Treasurer for his honesty, for his integrity, but above all, for his courage. It is an interesting and novel concept. Who in this House would get up and say that of a businessman who falsely advertised his goods, or a director who wilfully misled in his prospectus, or a salesman who, in making a sale, gave undertakings that, at the time he made them he knew he could not possibly keep? Which honourable member would get up in this House and state 'But at least you have to admire their courage.' The same morality applies in this matter with this Government. Let it not be forgotten, as pointed out by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  that we have a Prime Minister who has now been in power in both Houses of Parliament for four years. He has had four years to pursue and implement those policies that he proclaimed to the people of Australia; he has had four years to implement his economic strategy. He has had four years which is the longest period for a Prime Minister in office- again as the Leader of the Opposition pointed out- since  Sir Robert  Menzies was Prime Minister. It is a longer period than  Mr Holt  was Prime Minister and longer than the period  Mr Gorton  and  Sir William  McMahon were Prime Ministers. It is longer than  Mr Whitlam  was Prime Minister. Now four years with a working majority in both Houses should give any government all the time that is necessary to implement its economic strategies and to carry out its promises. But what have we seen from this Prime Minister? No Prime Minister in Australian history created more expectations among the people of Australia. No Prime Minister came in with as large a majority. And on the basis of what? That he could be trusted to run the economy! Whatever else the people of Australia were led to believe, these people opposite were said to be the sound, economic managers. It was really as simple as turning on a light. All you had to do was go and turn it on and it would all come good. 
Four years later, with power in both Houses, what was the input of the Minister's statement last Thursday? This new and novel Fraserian concept of economic responsibility really means that one can say one thing one day and do another thing tomorrow. It is the credo of the political prostitutes and the political frauds. 
Look, I know it is no good talking to the Minister for Health about political morality. He has never pursued it in the party room and when speaking of it in this House he has been a hypocrite. In terms of political morality - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)The Treasurer will resume his seat. I understand that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports called the Minister for Health a hypocrite. 
I said he acted like a hypocrite. 
Being unparliamentary, I certainly withdraw the remark. 
I withdraw the remark. I simply say that the honourable member, who has spoken in this House so often on the question of Medibank, is the final undertaker of Medibank. He can nod his head, he can weave and twist, but the fact is that he was elected and became part of a government on the pledge of his leader and on the pledge of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  to maintain Medibank. That was the pledge upon which the honourable gentleman stood. It is the statement from which he has crawled away. If he does not like terms which he regards as unparliamentary I will not use them. But the people of Australia will make their own judgment about this Minister for Health, the undertaker of Medibank. This message boy, the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  who carries out the Prime Minister's bidding- the message boy of the Prime Minister - 
I do not want to deal with the Government Whip. I said on a previous occasion that as a Whip he is a disgrace to the national parliament. He would not get a job serving drunks in a massage parlour. 
If it makes him happy, I say the honourable member for Bendigo is good enough to get a job serving drunks in a massage parlour. 
-I just did. 
The Prime Minister was asked what this economic strategy promised the people of Australia. We should remember that this government has held office for about four years. In a television interview the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  predicted- he put this quite squarely to the Treasurer- that by Christmas there would be 500,000 Australians unemployed. The Treasurer was asked: 'Do you deny that or do you have another figure?' The Treasurer was not prepared to deny it and he did not have another figure. Equally, when it was put to the Prime Minister and to the Treasurer, these great economic managers that, as a result of this economically responsible package, interest rates will go up into double figures by the end of the year, did the Treasurer say: 'No, I have an alternative. The Treasury advisers have all sorts of figures. ' Was it denied? 
Interest rates were mentioned. If the Treasurer wants to give the House a categorical assurance and say that he will resign his position as Treasurer if interest rates go up as a result of this economic package, I will yield my time to him here and now. He can stand up and say it. It is a matter for the Treasurer. I invite him to get into the debate and say that, according to his information, interest rates will not go above what they are now. I invite him to stake his reputation as Treasurer on the matter and submit his resignation if interest rates do go above that figure. 
When the media put to the Prime Minister that inflation rates will go back into double figures, was that denied? Not at all. So, at the end of four years of the Fraser Government, after promise after promise has been broken, what we are given is an economic package which promises nothing but more hardship for the people of Australia. The worst aspect of the package is that it involves the destruction of the confidence that Australian people are entitled to have in any government, even this government. How can the Prime Minister, elected four years ago on the promise that there will be jobs for all who want to work, walk honourably amongst the Australian people? 
The Prime Minister had all the economic advice he wanted. He knew the nature of the problems of government he was taking on but that was his promise. It was given freely. No one had his arm up his back. The promise was that there would be jobs for all who want to work. Does anybody believe that there are jobs in Australia today for all who want to work? Does anybody believe that as a result of this economic package there will be jobs for all who want to work? During the course of the last six months, and during the course of this debate, the unemployed have been blamed for their own predicament. That promise of employment has been transmuted into a set of directives to make life as hard as possible for the unemployed. 
One even gets the monstrous assertion from the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  that anybody who is under 25 and unemployed should not receive unemployment payments. That may be all right for those who live on Mugga Way. It may be all right if you are a restauranteur or real estate speculator. But young kids find that there are 100 other applicants for every job. That is the position. What we are getting from this Government, because it is unable to fulfil promises it freely gave to the Australian people, is a reversion to the dole bludger syndrome. That syndrome is running hard and fast through the back bench of this Government and through the ministry. No concept is more vile and more reprehensible in Australian society than the concept that the many hundreds of thousands of young Australians who want to work and will take work are some kind of imposition on society. They are dole bludgers in the concept and the imagination of this Government. 
The Prime Minister and the Government said that they would provide work for all who wanted it. They have not fulfilled that promise. Every supporter of the Government knows that; every member of this House knows it. Nothing in this economic package will provide full employment or anything like full employment for those in our community who are unemployed. Does anybody seriously believe that the concepts involved in the destruction of Medibank will aid the ill and the infirm in our community? The  National Times  pointed out in a very responsible article that if one is young and healthy one is better off staying out of Medibank. The article contains a table which proves that. That means that the burden of keeping the health funds going will fall on the aged and infirm, which will mean an increase in rates and therefore in the consumer price index. These are the facts facing this Government. This package is an economic fraud. If a director of a company tried to sell it as part of a prospectus he would be locked up in gaol. All the terminology and nonsense about economic responsibility that we have heard from the Government side of the House does not answer the charge of the Opposition that this Government's credibility is in tatters. It has failed to honour its election promises to the people of Australia. It has failed in terms of its economic strategy. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I join in this debate to express some concern and disappointment at the views expressed by the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock).  I support the arguments put by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman).  It seems to me that when we look at the question of privilege and at the question of listening devices, it is important to ask the question: Why was this privilege created in the first place? It was created essentially because in a democratic community and under our system of law, over a period of time certain relationships attached to individuals in this community have been regarded as sacrosanct and as the subject of privilege. Those are important relationships, and one of them is the relationship between a solicitor and his client. When a client goes to his solicitor to seek advice, he has to be able to say: 'I got the best advice that I could get, the most honest advice'. In order to get that advice the client has to be able to say with confidence that he can tell his solicitor frankly and truthfully what has occurred. The relationship between a medical practitioner and his patient has also been regarded as an important relationship and one for which this Government has argued time and time again. It has argued for the sanctity of the relationship of the medical practitioner and his client, not merely for the doctor's right to have the confidence of his client but for the patient's right to know that what he tells his doctor is a matter between him and his doctor. 
Let us take the other relationship which up until now has been regarded as a very important right and I refer to the right of the confessional. A man has a right, no matter what sort of sinner he is, to go into the confessional to seek whatever advice or absolution is available. That is part of his religious faith, no matter how vile the offence he has committed. I find it unbelievable that a government that talks about these religious freedoms can introduce legislation to allow listening devices to be placed in the confessional, in the office of a solicitor, in the office of the medical practitioner, and in the office of an accountant. All those relationships are very important, not just to the people who are involved professionally but to the proper functioning of this community . They are even more important in terms of the rights of the individual. 
I think all honourable members who have spoken in this debate are as concerned as I am about the problems of how we deal with drug traffickers. I do not think any member has any great priorities on that. 
We are dealing with a very small group in the community. But in order to get at that very small group we are now being told that it is OK to adopt techniques involving electronic listening devices. It is just not a question of planting a bug. One can sit in a car outside a building and, with sophisticated equipment, pick up a conversation that is going on inside. I do not know how this legislation even got through the party room. Perhaps it was never explained. We are now being told that there is no more privacy in the confessional, that there is no more privacy for a man seeking the advise of his solicitor and saying: 'In order for you to advise me, I admit that I did this. I committed that offence and as part of that I did a number of other things'. We are being told that if evidence of other breaches of the law is collected in the privacy of these relationships while these supersnoops sit outside listening to devices in an attempt initially to apprehend a drug offender, that is all okay too and that evidence can be used. That involves a very serious and very important departure from traditional concepts and traditional relationships which have long been recognised in our law. 
The honourable member for Dundas is playing with words if he says: 'Oh well, the solicitor can claim privilege'. It is the privacy of the relationship that is important. It is because of the need to maintain the privacy of those sorts of relationships that the rule of law has operated traditionally in our system to protect the rights of the individual. I do not believe there is any situation in Australian society which justifies this Parliament abrogating people's rights because we are concerned about a handfull of drug traffickers. Of course we should use all the weapons that are available to us to deal with those people. But what we are doing is adopting legislation that strikes at the basic rights of every Australian citizen. Whatever our problems are in dealing with drug offenders and drug traffickers I do not believe we advance the cause of our community one iota if we say: 'Well, in order to pursue that laudible objective we are going to adopt the techniques of the police state. We are going to adopt the procedures that are more relevant to 1984 than they are to a democratic plural society in Australia in 1979. That is the issue. It is as simple as that. I think that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  having heard these arguments should not use numbers to railroad this legislation through the Parliament. There is obvious unhappiness amongst distinguished members on the Minister's side of the House. I am surprised that an honourable gentleman of his capacity who takes a stand on civil liberties issues should allow himself to be used as just another number. 
The point is simple. I believe it does not matter how vile an individual citizen is. He has his rights to protection under our legal system. I do not believe it matters how gross a sin a man may have committed. If a man believes he has to make his peace with his god he is entitled to go into the confessional and not be harassed. I do not believe this Parliament is doing a good thing when it abandons those traditional relationships. That is what they are. The law has long recognised the privacy of relationships. There has to be a compelling reason to abandon those long-standing and traditional concepts within our law. To date all we have had from the Minister at the table has been silence. I suggest that the Minister ought to adjourn this debate, take the legislation away, have a good look at it and bring it back tomorrow. If he did this, perhaps he would see the compelling sense of some of the arguments that have come from both sides of the House. This particular clause of the legislation is thoroughly unacceptable, having regard to the traditions and practices which have long operated in this community, and, as far as I am concerned, which should continue to operate. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Having regard to his assertion that the purchase of two VIP aircraft was both prudent and desirable, I ask: Why did the Prime Minister's Press Secretary refuse the  Four Corners  television program permission to film work on the conversion of the first of the Prime Minister's two 707 VIP jetliners? Why did the Prime Minister's office refuse to permit any filming of the training of the 14 cabin crew, six pilots, three engineers, three load masters and three chefs for the VIP jets? Finally, is the Prime Minister aware that in buying two 707 airliners for his personal use overseas he joins the exclusive company of the  President  of the United States, the former Shah of Iran and ex-President Idi Amin of Uganda? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 22 March 1979: 
1 ) When was the instruction book  Visits Abroad by the Prime Minister of Australia  revised so as to include a paragraph on page 12 which reads that refrigerators should be provided in each room occupied by the official party. 
) At whose instigation was the change made. 
What was the cost to the Australian Embassy in Bonn of hiring and stocking refrigerators for the Prime Minister and his party during their visit to West Germany. 
It seems almost indecent at this stage of the debate to remind the House that every Government member was elected in 1975 on a promise made on their behalf by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to 'maintain and improve Medibank '. That statement was made at a time when the Prime Minister knew the cost of Medibank, understood the principle of universal health care and understood the method of operation. Some four years later, in May 1979, not even the most earnest admirer of the Prime Minister or the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  could argue that Medibank has been maintained; nor is it even arguable when one looks at provisions in this legislation that this Bill consitutes any improvement at all in our helath care standards or in our practices. This is the fifth major change in the health scheme in  Vh  years. 
The last change was slightly under seven months old when the present changes were announced. I remind the honourable member for Petrie of what his own Minister for Health said less than 12 months ago, on 24 May. He said: 
Until an improved data base becomes available the Government believes that it would be premature . . . 
. they are the Minister's words, not mine. He continued: 
The Government believes that it would be premature to proceed further with the consideration of major adjustments to the health insurance scheme. 
Does the Minister for Health now assert that that data base is established? Of course not. These latest changes not merely reduce the 1975 promise of the Prime Minister to a monument to political mendacity unrelated to any coherent philosophy of health care but are based on one criteria and one criteria only, and that is the failure of this Government to manage the economy. Caught with economic pressures and problems it sought to make cuts wherever it could. This legislation reflects that mentality. Do not let the Minister for Health or any of his spokesmen pretend that what this Parliament has before it is legislation which is in any way at all related to the establishment of any kind of health care philosophy. I refer the House to the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare. Let me remind the House that, on that Committee, supporters of the Government- Liberal and National Party members- are the majority. What does the report of that Committee available only within the course of the last few weeks say? At page 1 , the report states: 
In Australia, we have little idea of whether our health and welfare efforts are appropriate, effective, efficient, or equitable. 
That is a judgment made by a majority of Government supporters about the Government's health and social welfare programs. Let me repeat it: 
In Australia, we have little idea of whether our health and welfare efforts are appropriate, effective, efficient, or equitable. 
The report continues: 
. one sees in health and welfare in Australia a system out of control- 
Those are the terms used by the Committee: 
. certainly out of control . . . of the institutions and political agencies to which we look for national management. 
At page 3, the report continues: 
In order to achieve an efficient, effective national and equitable health and welfare system, it is necessary to conduct on going evaluation ... the consequences of not evaluating are possible indiscriminate cuts in funds, indiscriminate handing out of funds, continuance of the present ad hoc decision making process, perpetuation of the present inadequacies in the health and welfare system, and a possible lack of alternative solutions to problems in health and welfare. 
If any legislation ever fulfilled the descriptions of that Senate Committee, on which there is a majority of Government members, it is this legislation. Not even the Minister in his moments of political fantasy would suggest for one moment that there has been any evaluation. This Government has changed health benefit schemes five times in three and a half years despite the Minister's own recognition, less than 12 months ago, that proper evaluation was not possible. This legislation has one political objective- and one only. It is unrelated completely; it is cant and hypocrisy to suggest for one moment that what we are talking about is some kind of new concept that has emerged out of the primeval back doors of the Liberal Party room where members have worked their way through some health care philosophy. What has emerged is the decision to slash, cut and rend health and welfare policies. 
-Well, the Prime Minister is somewhat adroit with the use of the knife; so slash, cut and rend is a phrase that would not be unknown in the Liberal Party room. The decision to slash, cut and rend our social welfare and our health policy schemes is what this legislation is all about. 
What does this legislation do? The most important section of the new charges which will affect most people is the abolition of the 40 per cent rebate on scheduled fees and the Government's decision not to contribute towards the cost of the first $20 of medical services. In more detail, Department of Health spokesmen have confirmed- as indeed, in fairness to the Minister, he has also confirmed- that most medical fees come within this category. Visits to general practitioners, repeat visits to specialists, ordinary blood tests, simple pathology tests and the day to day medical needs as they are sought by the average family and the average citizen are all covered in terms of the first $20. The term 'treatment' under existing criteria means a single visit to a doctor or clinic. It has been pointed out that, if a patient requires continuing visits or a combination of services such as is required in the case of a coronary occlusion, the total cost could be as much as $450. 
-Of course, that is part of the philosophy of the honourable gentleman opposite. I understand that. At least he is honest about it. But his Prime Minister was not honest when he pledged himself to maintaining Medibank. The difference in philosophy between the honourable gentlemen on the Government benches and those on this side of the House is that they believe this health care is something that is purchased in the open market place. They believe the standard of medical care will be determined not by the needs of the Australian citizen, not by the injury or the disease that affects them, but will be dependent solely on the amount of money that the citizen has in the bank. It is a laissez-faire mentality and a corrupt mentality. 
I leave it to the honourable gentleman to argue with his own backwoodsmen in Queensland. They are of his intellectual standard. I do not propose wasting any more time on the honourable gentleman. 
-Yes, it is, too. It is also a truthful remark. Let me repeat it: Let him argue with his own backwoodsmen in Queensland. I do not want to waste time with the honourable gentleman. I stand by the proposition that what this Government is saying is that, if there is a series of treatments which can total up to $450, in relation to a rebate, where previously 40 per cent of that total cost would have been refunded, unless someone is insured and new arrangements are made by health benefit funds, the total cost is to be paid by the individual. As one medical practitioner in Melbourne has pointed out, for many people in the community it would prove to be a lot better, under this legislation, for a person to have a lung removed than to have it progressively treated and cured. All one can ask about that example is how in terms of this so-called health care philosophy, this macabre exercise can be justified in terms of any philosophy of health care. 
What are the social results of this legislation? Uninsured people, unless they are pensioners or socially disadvantaged, will have no cover at all for most of their medical treatment. 
The honourable gentleman is an expert in rubbish. I leave him to his views which he has put somewhat inadequately to this House. The aged, those on fixed incomes and those living on superannuation are in a difficult situation. Many of those people might only be receiving $10, $20 or $30 a week above the pension. They would not necessarily qualify as being socially disadvantaged. It is an odd view that says that the sole determinant of social disadvantage is the medical practitioner. 
I say this to the honourable gentleman: Unlike the Prime Minister he is just a simple hypocrite. At least I will say this for the Prime Minister: He has the capacity, at least, to make mendacity an art form. 

 - Sir, I said that the honourable gentleman was unlike the Prime Minister who had enough capacity to raise mendacity to an art form. He probably does not understand that. That is why he did not ask for a withdrawal. In determining the criteria of 'disadvantaged', one has to raise the question: Why do medical practitioners, have to be the sole determinant, whatever their skills, and given all the problems that beset them in running a practice, of what constitutes the socially disadvantaged? 
The new system proposed by this Government makes the decision to join or not to join a health fund a bigger gamble than it has been in the past. The  National Times,  a fortnight ago, in examining the provisions of health care, set out a table which showed quite frankly and openly that it would be against the economic interests of people who were young and fit and healthy to join a fund. It said it would be better if they did not join. It pointed out that the social implications of that was that the health insurance funds would increasingly have to raise their fees to cover the aged, the infirm and the sick. It is that increasing cost which has been slid over or not even dealt with by Government spokesmen. Do they deny that the health insurance funds will have to raise their charges in order to replace the 40 per cent Government contribution on bills under $20? Do they deny that the health funds are already geared to make some increase in contributions to meet the rise in doctors' fees expected later this year? Does the Minister for Health now deny the strong possibility that family medical and hospital insurance rates are likely to reach over $ 10 a week by the end of the year? I frankly say that in the present economic climate a payment of $10 a week for health care insurance is too much for the average family. The average family will have to either pay that much or neglect the early symptoms of illness or, when symptoms become so bad, seek treatment at the already overburdened outpatient clinics at public hospitals. A spokesperson who has already dealt with the implications of the health care is  Ms Diana  Sonenberg of the Western Region Council for Social Development. She pointed out the problems that this will create in the overburdened outpatients department of the Western General Hospital.  Ms Sonenburg  said:   the combined deterrents of inability to pay high health insurance costs or full medical bills, and loss of time from work will ultimately lead to further strains on existing hospital beds and emergency specialist services. 
Already, waiting time for treatment at public hospitals  is  from four to six hours a week. This means that people who go to outpatient departments for attention can look forward to having to take the whole day off work. There is absolutely no evidence at all to suggest that the fairest and most effective way of containing health care costs is by making the patient pay more. Parliament is aware, and we are reminded of it almost every day, of this Government's and this Prime Minister's endless capacity for mendacity. 
The concept of maintaining and improving Medibank is in tatters, but more importantly the Government has failed to provide any meaningful or rational alternative to the people of Australia. The people of Australia still desire a system of health care that guarantees every citizen, irrespective of income, full access to the best medical treatment for injury or disease. Whatever the problems with Medibank, it met that criterion. This muddle that we now have before us masquerading as a health care system is the unique product of the Fraser Government. Wealth, age and general health are all ingredients which in the philosophy of this Government make health care another purchasable commodity in the market place. On any view of this concept the people of Australia will reject it not merely because it involved broken promises and stands as a permanent record of this Government's dishonesty, but also because, from any view of this legislation, what is now being structured as a so-called health program is expensive, inefficient and socially divisive of the Australian people, and a completely socially inadequate response to the health care needs of the average Australian and his family. 
-The object of this Bill is to ratify the appointment of  Mr Justice  Fox as AmbassadoratLarge on nuclear matters. 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The House will now resolve itself into Committee. 
I could have spoken for another five minutes while the Government was deciding whether to go into Committee. 
On a point of order, can I continue my speech in view of the fact that the Government cannot provide a  Chairman  of Committees? If the Government Whip is so inefficient, it seems to me that I ought to be able to continue. So I will continue making the speech that I was so concerned to make because - 
-. . . this Government cannot run the House. 
I am not going to sit here doing nothing. 
No. I am being paid a lot of money. I am going to make my speech unless the Government can provide a Chairman of Committees and you can please yourself. 
Then I draw your attention to the state of the House. It is a disgrace and you know it is a disgrace.  (Quorum formed) 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
Proposed new clause 4. 
I move: 
After clause 3, page 2, add the following new clause: 
Notwithstanding any reference in section 3 to any extension or extensions of the term of the appointment of the Honourable Russell Walter Fox as AmbassadoratLarge, the term of his appointment shall expire on 3 1 December 1980.'. 
While the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  has indicated that the Opposition has no objection in principle to the appointment of  Mr Justice  Fox as Ambassador-at-Large, on the very important question of an examination of the processes of nuclear industry, we do not believe that the question of the extension of his appointment ought just simply to be an exercise to be taken by the Executive. We believe that any extension of that appointment ought to come back to the Parliament so that the Parliament itself will have an opportunity to review the work, the activities and the achievements of  Mr Justice  Fox. 
I, for one, am an admirer of his achievements. But I say this: At a time when this Government is talking about cutbacks, and talking about economic stringencies, and is calling upon other sections of the Australian community to make sacrifices, it is not good enough for the Government to say that it will simply give a mandate to  Mr Justice  Fox, whatever his excellence and whatever his capacity, to operate at large and that the question of his reappointment for an indeterminate term will be a matter solely and exclusively for the Executive and not for the Parliament. 
I believe that one of the failures in the appointment of  Mr Justice  Fox- and I do not believe it is his failure but the Government's failure- relates to the real benefits of his work, his real achievements and the importance of having him operating as Ambassador-at-Large. After all, what does he do? It is time, perhaps, that we examined what his functions are.  His  functions are to examine the range of arguments, the range of developments and the complexities of the problems which confront mainly those nations of Western society which seem to have been committed to nuclear industry and to inform, not merely the Government of Australia on the range of those matters - 
Consideration interrupted. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  It being 10.30 p.m., I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
The Government endeavours to work on the basis, both in this Parliament and in the community at large, that the issues related to the future of the nuclear industry have been resolved. As far as the Government is concerned there are no problems in terms of nuclear proliferation; there are no problems in relation to waste disposal. The fact of the matter is that all those areas in which  Mr Justice  Fox has been involved, and continues to be involved, are very much the subject of continuing debate. The problem is, whatever the nature of the report that comes from  Mr Justice  Fox, that it tends to stay within the ambit of the executive. It is not a report to the Parliament. I would have thought that if we are spending the amount of money that it costs to have  Mr Justice  Fox operate as an ambassador-at-large, then the information that he gleans as an ambassador-at-large ought not to be available just simply to the executive of the day but also ought to be available to the Parliament and through the Parliament, it ought to be available to the people of Australia. 
What is the range of issues which  Mr Justice  Fox has pointed out in the past? First, it involves the ambiguity and uncertainties surrounding the attempts of  President  Carter to implement his non-proliferation policy. The Government would regard that issue as resolved. I wish to quote from a confidential document which, with the approval of the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner),  I am happy to table and have incorporated in  Hansard.  I seek the approval of the Minister for that. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Is leave granted? 
I find it sad and extraordinary that the Government and the Minister say that this Parliament will spend large sums of money sending Ambassador Fox overseas. There is nothing very secretive about the document. I propose to deal with the points it raises in the time available to me. Ambassador Fox says in this document that there is ambiguity and uncertainty surrounding the attempts of  President  Carter to implement his non-proliferation policy. He points out the competitiveness of the nuclear industry and how such competition presently erodes and diminishes the concept of non-proliferation. 

 - Mr Justice Fox. He points out in the document- which the Minister will not have tabled- the inability of the International Atomic Energy Agency to administer safeguards satisfactorily. He points out the continuing difficulties in preventing the development of nuclear technology spreading to encompass military purposes. I find it extraordinary that we can have an ambassador-at-large who is entitled to brief sections of the Public Service and who is entitled to say 'that is the range and the dimension of problems that face Australia '. It is all very well to have  Mr Justice  Fox operating as a public relations arm of this Government so that he will prove or substantiate its view. Is it suggested that because he is the ambassador, the Government will support whatever recommendations he makes? The reality, of course, is that most of  Mr Justice  Fox's recommendations are honoured more in the breach than in their observance. 
I take the interjection made by a Government supporter. I draw it to the attention of the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman).  As far as one of his colleagues is concerned,  Mr Justice  Fox ought to be sacked. 
Let me repeat that: The sooner the better. That is not the position the Opposition takes. It is the attitude which represents the viewpoint of those extreme right wing sections of the Liberal Party. The honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  shows their real attitude to  Mr Justice  Fox. 
Let me quote the honourable member for Swan who will not make his own speech: 'He costs us thousands of millions of dollars. He ought to be sacked. The sooner the better'. That is the view of the honourable member for Swan expressed by way of interjection. That reflects the real attitude of the Government. I will say this for the honourable member for Swan: There is an essential honesty in his position because in essence that is the real position of this Government. The Government believes that so long as it can keep  Mr Justice  Fox as ambassador-at-large wandering around the world he can produce as many memoranda as he likes, he can tell the Government of the problems and the threats that are posed to the people of Australia by nuclear profliferation, he can tell the people of Australia and the Government that we have not solved the problems of nuclear waste disposal, he can point out all these problems, but they will stay within the confines of the Cabinet. 
The real attitude of the Government is of course the attitude reflected by the honourable member for Swan. Therefore, I commend this amendment to the House because what it says is that the Parliament ultimately will accept responsibility for the extension of the appointment or any further appointment of  Mr Justice  Fox. It will not continue to be some exercise in cosy complicity on behalf of the executive arm of Government. I commend the amendment to the House because I believe it gives the Parliament some say in the future of  Mr Justice  Fox. I only hope that the recommendations he has made, which the Minister would not allow to be tabled because they highlight the essential dishonesty of this Government's policy on the nuclear industry, will continue to be made, not merely to the executive arm of Government but also to the Parliament and, through the Parliament, to the people of Australia. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
When did the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs first raise with the Federal Narcotics Bureau the question of the serious allegations contained in an article in the Melbourne  Sun News-Pictorial  of 28 May? Does the Minister recall that the Customs Amendment Bill giving vastly increased powers to the Narcotics Bureau was not debated in this House until the afternoon of 29 May and did not pass this House until one o'clock in the morning of Wednesday, 30 May? In view of the time which elapsed between the appearance of the allegations in the Melbourne  Sun News-Pictorial  and the passing of the Customs Amendment Bill, can the Minister state why he was not able to inform this house as to the truth or otherwise of those allegations before the legislation was passed? 
-I move: 
That the ruling be dissented from. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 24 May 1979: 
1 ) With respect to his answer to a question without notice on 22 May 1979 (  Hansard,  page 2153) and his subsequent statement to the House on his discussions with President Suharto, did he raise in those discussions the question of Indonesia's continuing occupation of Timor and repeated defiance of United Nations resolutions in respect of the occupation. 
If not, on what basis did he inform the House that Indonesia will be going to very significant lengths to advance the cause and well being of the people of what was formerly Portuguese Timor. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 9 May 1979: 
1 ) How many Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme beneficiaries in each State have been prosecuted for failure to comply with Student Assistance Regulations 85 ( 1 ) ( a ). 
Are all students failing to comply prosecuted: if not. what criteria are used to determine whether prosecutions will take place. 
Is it a fact that Commonwealth Police are the agents used in prosecutions. 
What information is made available to the Police in carrying out prosecutions. 
Has the Prime Minister had his attention drawn to the released details of settlement between the family company of the 
Minister for Primary Industry and Reliance Investments Pty Ltd over moneys allegedly misappropriated? Were the details of this settlement drawn to his attention prior to 2 August 1 979 and prior to his departure for overseas? Has all the material pertaining to this matter now been made available to the Prime Minister? On the basis of that information, is the Prime Minister satisfied that his own guidelines for the conduct of Ministers have been satisfied? 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 9 May 1979: 
1 ) What arrangements are being made for additional telephone connections at Hastings, Victoria, telephone exchange. 
Is it a fact that only 200 new connections have been made available in Hastings for the period February to August 1979 and will these be used immediately by the existing waiting list. 
If so, when will more connections become available. 
What is the current demand for new connections. 
5 ) What is the anticipated demand for connections. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
1 ) Is a controversy surrounding the policies of Swift Australia and the Queensland and Northern Territory Pastoral Co., and do these companies belong to the King Ranch, Texas, group of companies. 
If so, is he satisfied that this controversy will not in any way inhibit or adversely affect continued export of Australian beef to the United States of Amenca by these companies. 
Has his attention been drawn to action by US civil rights groups pressing for the banning of Australian beef exports to the US beause of alleged racism by the companies referred to in pan ( 1 ). 
Did 2 tribal elders from Lake Nash meet with the US Ambassador to the United Nations,  Mr Andrew  Young, in 
Canberra on 8 May 1979; if so, who was present at this meeting. 
Can he say whether any promises were made by  Mr Young  to those elders, or if any requests were made of those elders by  Mr Young;  if so, what was their nature. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 22 August 1978: 
1 ) How many contracts entered into by Departments and Statutory Corporations under his control for the purchase of equipment, contained clauses specifying an offset arrangement with the vendor for the purchase of Australian manufactured goods, components and /or technology during the last 10 years. 
) What were those contracts. 
What was the sum involved in each offset clause and what were the terms of its discharge. 
What is the extent to which the terms of these clauses have been implemented specifying in each case the monetary value of the implementation. 
What sum is currently available under these clauses for the purchase of relevant Australian manufactured goods, components and /or technology. 
Has the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs in fact, given consideration to the question asked of him last week which simply asked the Minister, as the Minister responsible for the Companies Act, to confirm that there is no provision in that Act for the appointment of nominal directors? Will he affirm that all directors of companies are bound to accept their responsibilities specified under the Act and that these responsibilities cannot be avoided by a plea of ignorance or claiming status as nominal directors? Will the Minister, in discharging his obligations in this matter, also indicate that the law applies equally to all citizens and that Ministers of the Crown, including Cabinet colleagues, are no exception? 
During Question Time today, important questions were raised about  Mr Lyenko  Urbanchich, the  President  of the Ethnic Council of the Liberal Party of New South Wales. This followed documentation produced in the New South Wales Parliament last week that alleged that  Mr Urbanchich,  a man of Slovenian origin, had committed war crimes during World War II. These allegations were raised again during the 
Australian Broadcasting Commission program  Broadband  last night. During this program  Mr Simon  Wiesenthal of the War Crimes Documentation Centre in Vienna said that after the war, Lyenko Urbanchich was put on the list of war criminals under the number Z360 by the Yugoslav Government. Ten pages of extracts of material allegedly written by Urbanchich were attached to his file. These related to a series of attacks, purported to be made by Urbanchich against Jewish people, in a Slovenian newspaper.  Mr Wiesenthal,  who is a respected world authority on war crimes and war criminals - 
-Compared this material to the grossly anti-semitic writings and broadcasts of Goebbels. This matter was raised at Question Time this morning when the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  said that  Mr Urbanchich  was now an Australian citizen. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was asked a question about a personal conversation that Urbanchich alleged he had had with the Prime Minister the clear import of which had materially affected the Government's attitude towards the Croatian embassy. The only person who is able to inform the House of the accuracy or otherwise of that conversation is the Prime Minister, but he refused to make any statement to the House. That being so, I suppose one is entitled to accept Urbanchich 's statement that he did in fact have some influence in this matter. 
I do not want to go into the convolutions of politics in Yugoslavia during the war; I do not have the time. The  Broadband  program and its transcript, for those who are interested in this matter, details that to some extent. What is important is Urbanchich 's extremely elevated status in the Liberal Party and how it is that that Party in New South Wales has never questioned his status. I understand that Urbanchich is the  president  of one of the three divisions of the New South Wales Liberal Party, the ethnic division. I understand that the other divisions are the young liberals and the women's division.  His  position is remarkable when we consider that his rapid rise to power has taken place so recently. Apparently he joined the Liberal Party only in 1966, although he was closely identified with extreme right-wing politics in Sydney. In fact he was closely identified with the scandalous campaign directed at  Mr St  John when he was pre-selected and subsequently won the seat of Warringah. 
How the Liberal Party chooses its office bearers is a matter for it, but it must be a matter of deep concern to every democrat in the Liberal Party- there are some- and certainly to all democrats in Australia when, bearing in mind the allegations against  Mr Urbanchich, Mr Urbanchich  stated: 
The Liberal Party is the nearest to my philosophy. As a matter of fact, I don't see anything in the Liberal Party that would be against my grain as I interpret it ... I think I'm a true Liberal, I'm a true conservative and I'm a true Australian. 
He then went on to express the hope, which I suppose is the hope that looms large in all members of the Liberal Party, that one day he might even be a member of parliament. Again it would be a matter for the Liberal Party as to how it would welcome that particular gentleman. 
When confronted with some of these allegations  Mr Urbanchich  had no doubt that what he exemplified were the principles of the great majority of New South Wales liberals. On  Broadband he  stated: 
The people who are branded as this - 
That is, similar in their views to  Mr Urbanchich-  are representing 80 per cent of the opinion, at least 80 per cent of the opinion of the Liberal Party. Even the 10 or 20 per cent they are not against us, some of them, and then you have a bit of a trendy element, yes. 
Apart from the trendy element, what this gentleman is saying, and it is not disputed by any Liberal member of this House- the question was evaded by the Prime Minister today- is that he represents the philosophy, the principles and the attitudes of over 80 per cent of the Liberal Party. The House is entitled to know whether it is a fact that this gentleman, who has had very serious allegations made against him, influenced the Prime Minister. The House is entitled to know and not have the Prime Minister run for cover. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I ask the Foreign Minister: Was the Diplomatic and Consular Missions Act passed by this House, and assented to on 24 August 1978, to prevent the establishment of bogus embassies and consulates? Has the Minister noted that last night in this House the honourable member for Chifley quoted ethnic and other Press reports which showed that on 6 March 1979 the so-called charge-d 'affaires of the socalled Croatian embassy was given an official welcome by the Macquarie Federal Electorate Conference of the Liberal Party while standing next to a Croatian flag, and was entertained on an official basis by Liberal parliamentarians, including the present member for Macquarie, a former Liberal mayor of Penrith, and a former Liberal State member for Nepean? Is the Minister concerned about these actions? If so, has the Minister protested to his party colleagues about the infringement of the principles of the Act? If not, why not? How long will the Minister permit the charade of the Croatian 'embassy' to be upheld - 
For the information of honourable members I raise what seems to me to be a serious matter which arose in this House this week when both the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  seemed to be running scared over what is now known as the Urbanchich affair. All Australians, including I am certain many members of the Liberal Party, were appalled to learn on last Monday evening's  Broadband  program that  Mr Lyenko  Urbanchich, the  President  of the Ethnic Council of the Liberal Party of New South Wales, was alleged to have his name listed by the Yugoslav Government under the number Z360 in respect of war crimes. It was also, I believe, a matter of deep concern that the respected world authority on war crimes and war criminals,  Mr Simon  Wiesenthal, having examined a series of articles written by Urbanchich in Solvenian newspapers during the period of the Nazi and Ustashi terror in Yugoslavia described this material as being grossly and offensively antiSemitic and similar to the broacasts of Goebbels. 
I do not think it comes as anything new that people with the type of record alleged of  Mr Urbanchich  were not merely admitted to Australia during the Cold War period but were certainly welcomed. What is of concern is that  Mr Urbanchich  could not merely rise to such a position of prominence within the New South Wales Liberal Party but that he could state publicly that his viewpoint represents that of approximately 80 per cent of the New South Wales membership.  Mr Urbanchich  made no secret of the fact that his basic political attitudes have not changed.  Mr Urbanchich,  in fairness to him, has been nothing, if not consistent. In the 1960s, he was  President  of the Victorian '50s Club and was widely connected with other extremist movements. He was instrumental in a wide campaign against  Mr Edward  St John and his activities have been widely publicised in magazines like the  Bulletin  and  Quadrant. 
I am delighted that the honourable member comes to his defence. At least we know where he stands. What cannot be ignored is that  Mr Urbanchich  can publicly claim that he had conversations with the Prime Minister of Australia at the Liberal Party conference in New South Wales and in that conversation expressed his very firm support for the continuation of the Croatian Embassy, at the same time suggesting that these representations to the Prime Minister had successfully influenced Government policy. That was his statement. When the Prime Minister was specifically given the opportunity to deny these conversations and to deny these representations and, at the same time, to deny  Mr Urbanchich  and his influence, the Prime Minister refused to do so. I would have thought that if the Prime Minister had been misrepresented by someone of  Mr Urbanchich  's background he would have been only too anxious to disavow the position as quickly as possible and as publicly as possible and to use the forum of this House to do so. Unfortunately that is not the case. 
Equally, the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  ran for cover when certain evidence was produced to the Parliament in detail and very effectively by the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  who indicated that, on 6 March 1979, some months after this Parliament had passed legislation to close the Croatian Embassy, the so-called charge d'affaires was given an official welcome by the Macquarie Federal Electorate conference of the Liberal Party. The honourable member for Chifley named Federal Liberal council members, members of Parliament and prominent local Liberals who were fawning at the feet of this man and giving him a warm welcome. So much so that he was delighted. This bogus charge d'affaires regarded it as an historic occasion. It was the first occasion when he had been thus treated by any major political party in Australia. When this was drawn to the attention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs so that he could repudiate those actions, he chose also to run for cover. Now,  Sir, there  is nothing new about lunatic fringe groups trying to infiltrate major political parties. No party is immune from these attempts. I just hope the leadership of the Liberal Party does something about it. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
This Budget is a practical extension of the politics of deceit which has been traditionally practised by this Government. Nobody in Australia believes that this Budget will lead to economic recovery or that it will solve the problems of inflation or unemployment in either the short term or the long term. We do know, and it is clearly demonstrable from the Budget documents of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and his supplementary statements, that he expects inflation to get worse. He will not deny the probability that interest rates will rise before Christmas, and even the most stern apologists for this Government admit that currently within Australia some 410,000 people are registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service as seeking jobs. If one adds the figure indicated in the Norgard reportnamely, that 30 per cent of the unemployed do not register with the CES- then hidden unemployment in Australia means that as a result of four years of occupation of the treasury benches by this Government we are now looking at more Australians out of work than the peak of 477,000 which was reached during the Great Depression in 1933. 
The fact that the unemployed receive their benefits through the post has eliminated the dole queue, but it has not eliminated the anguish and the suffering of hundreds of thousands of decent Australians who simply want a job, or the plight of those thousands of families whose breadwinners are unemployed, who live below the poverty line and whose suffering prompted a significant and important statement by the Catholic bishops of Australia. The compassion which was shown in that statement was certainly not echoed, or even acknowledged, by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his statement to the House today. The fact is that the Prime Minister and his colleagues, who told the people of Australia over four years ago that running the economy was really as simple as turning on the lights, now find themselves, after four years in government and with a majority in both Houses- the longest uninterrupted period in office of any government since the Menzies Government- with the greatest level of unemployment since the Depression. This cowboy Prime Minister, with his penchant for fast cars and his very own jet aeroplane, is leading Australia into the great depression of the 1980s. Whilst it is undoubtedly true that unemployment is currently a world-wide phenomenon bedevilling all Western based capitalist economies, on world standards Australia's unemployment level is amongst the highest of those countries with our level of wealth and industrial development. 
In his Budget statement today the Prime Minister not only failed to provide the answers but also indicated a monumental incapacity even to ask the right questions. He just reeled out the same tired old rhetoric. All that has changed in this, his fourth year in office, is the major argument. On the occasion of this Budget, whom do we blame? We do not blame this Government! We blame the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries and the declining state of the world economy! I am bound to say that the Prime Minister did not abandon altogether all of his past arguments. It is at least a step forward to see that not even the Prime Minister, or any other member of the Government, so far has tried to advance the dole bludger myth, which of course was part of the general level of propaganda under which they came into office- the view that if people are unemployed it is their own fault. Not even members of this Government are prepared to argue, in the face of existing statistics, that that is the case. However, in the Treasurer's statement we did see the other proposition not completely abandoned by this Government; that is, that wage increases and union demands are the cause of unemployment, or, to put it simply, one man's wage increase is another man's job. This argument ignores the fact that most of the wage claims of 1974 were to catch up to prices that had already risen If this thesis had any merit, how is it that by mid- 1978, when real wage overhand had almost entirely disappeared, the labour market continued to deteriorate? 
Then, of course, there is the Fraser thesis that it is really the private sector versus the public sector. In 1975 the Prime Minister promised that he would restore full employment by the simple process of cutting back on government spending which he claimed would release resources to the private sector, which in turn would use them to create employment opportunities. Since 1975 private sector unemployment has grown more than that of the public sector. Manufacturing, which is conducted almost entirely by the private sector, saw 155,200 become jobless between 1974 and February 1977. 
Finally, when all else has failed we still have the exercise which continues on a daily basis in this Parliament- that of rigging the statistics. This Government has continually tried to juggle the figures on unemployment and to time the release of statistics so as to minimise community awareness of the extent and nature of unemployment. With all the resources that are available to this Parliament and this Government, it is incredible to see from the debates that have taken place thus far that honourable members on both sides of the House are still arguing about the figures. I would have thought that any government which was concerned about unemployment could at least produce a set of statistics which was beyond argument. This Government has not been concerned to do that. This Government has been concerned to minimise and stack the figures so that the people of Australia will not realise the true dimension of unemployment. 
I think that it is true, and that this Parliament has to face the fact, that the great world boom period of the 1 960s is finished and that it is true that Australia is not merely into a period of cyclic recession. The great advance in technology- the computer revolution- means that whole areas of traditional training in white collar employment are rapidly becoming redundant. This is occurring at "a time when no meaningful policy of manpower training, or even significant worker education, is emerging from within the ranks of this Government. Equally it is occurring at a time when Australia's economic development is increasingly being dominated by the operation of transnational companies whose size, economic strength, ownership of technology and resources give them more naked economic power than that of many nation states, with a capacity not merely to dominate the market place but also to destroy the myth of the freedom of the market place- a myth much beloved by this Prime Minister and this Treasurer. 
There is increasing evidence that these companies, which are forming such a large and significant factor in determining the fate of the Australian economy, are involved in transferring manufacturing capacity from high wage countries to low wage areas in Asia, not merely with a subsequent loss of employment opportunities but more importantly with a sacrifice of work experience and traditional skills. This process is only beginning in Australia, but it has played a significant part in unemployment statistics in the United States. I found it to be something almost bordering on the unbelievable that the Prime Minister of Australia could get up in this Parliament today and seek to belittle a decision of a Labor Party conference which adopted the policy that the Labor Party in office would monitor, check and make available to the government of the day, information about the nature, extent and control of our economy by transnational corporations. To the Prime Minister that was an incomprehensible suggestion. What is incomprehensible is that the Prime Minister who does have some responsibilities in this matter is unaware that the OECD countries after two years of very substantial negotiations, research, monitoring and information gathering, have in the course of only the last few weeks reached agreement and produced a code of conduct to monitor the activities of transnational companies operating in Europe. 
It is extraordinary that the Prime Minister in belittling and demeaning Labor Party policy that these activities ought to be investigated and subject to report, should have made the statements that he did. He did so in ignorance of the fact that in 1973, in the home of private enterprise, the United States of America, the Congressional Senate Finance Committee examined this problem: The implications of the multinational firm for world trade and investment for United States trade and labour. 
-Well, they found some very interesting facts. 
I shall. It might enlighten the honourable gentleman. Testimony was given to that Committee and I will give the honourable gentleman the reference. The American Federation of Labour-Congress of Industrial Organisations testified that between 1966 and 1971 American-based multinationals transferred over 900,000 jobs based on union wage rates in the United States to low wage areas in Asia. No one can say that that would not have a significant impact on a country the size of the United States. If American-based companies are prepared to do that in their own community, then we in Australia ought to be having some regard to the impact that they may have in our own community. This was part of the evidence given by George Meany. No one could accuse Meany of being a young radical. As a spokesman for the AFL-CIO he said: 
The transfer of production overseas is making the United States a nation of hamburger stands- a country stripped of industrial capacity and meaningful work ... a service economy ... a nation of citizens busily buying and selling cheeseburgers and root beer floats. 
On behalf of the AFL-CIO he went on to name the companies. He went on to name the jobs and the technology that was being exported from the United States to low wage areas in Asia. Confronted with that evidence, plus the fact that the United Nations itself has had for some years, as part of its permanent operations, a standing committee examining and reporting on proper codes of conduct in the operation of transnational corporations, is it not an action of political and industrial responsibility for any political party to say that any government that cares about the future control of its own economy ought to be monitoring those actions? That is all that the Labor Party did and it was the subject of very strong condemnation from the Prime Minister with his narrow, Tory-tunnel vision. The Prime Minister and the Government would reject that proposition out of hand. 
The Government has chosen to play the role of the economic Quisling in the Australian society. As far as it is concerned, any transnational company that is prepared to wave a fistfull of dollars in the face of this Prime Minister can buy whatever it wants. It can develop and abuse the resources of this country in any way it likes. I believe that it is time that the Governments role in our economy, and the capacity not only of the Government but also of this Parliament to play some meaningful role in the future development of our economy, were closely assessed. 
Like other members of the Opposition, I reject this Budget. We are talking about this nation's most important resource. I have heard the Prime Minister talk about our mineral and agricultural resources, but I want to place on record that in my view our most important resource is the Australian people. The present Prime Minister not only accepts the highest unemployment figure in the history of this country, but also is prepared to make that a permanent feature of the Australian society whether one likes it or not. If one looks at the Budget documents and what the Budget is doing to Australian society one can reach the conclusion only that this Budget lays the foundation for the great depression of the 1980s. A generation of young Australians are to be sacrificed to meet the odd economic theories of the Prime Minister. 
The community must ask itself and we in this Parliament must ask ourselves whether any nation can survive with the human wastage that is involved in over 500,000 people being unemployed. That is the one issue that the Prime Minister and the Government have not faced up to in this Budget debate. One may talk about tax dodgers and unions, but the real question has not been answered: What is this Government's policy to tackle and reduce the problem of unemployment? To take it further, I say that the community must ask itself and we in this Parliament must ask ourselves very seriously whether we have to try to mould our people to meet the needs of the economic system or whether, with the great resources and wealth of this nation, we are prepared to restructure the economic system to develop this nation's most precious resourceits people. 
Given the problems of the cyclic recession, given the downturn right throughout the western world, given the advent of technology and given the increasing domination of our own economy by transnational corporations which have shown that their major duty is to multiply their profitsthey do not operate with any sense of national duty to this Government or to this nation and this has been the experience that has been monitored and on which there is a pile of evidence- I do not believe that this Budget or this Government can wrestle with the problem of unemployment and can look at getting our people back to meaningful and useful jobs unless there is by government a massive intervention in the economy. The view that the economy will regulate itself by leaving it to the free play of market forces in this day and age is economic nonsense. I say to this House that we ought to reject this Budget. We ought to reject the permanent dole mentality which is the underlying thesis of the Budget and we ought to reject the politics of deceit which has been perpetrated on the people of this country and on this Parliament by the Prime Minister. 
I ask the Minister for National Development a question relating to his statement of 1 1 September. Is it a fact that the electorates held by three Ministers have each attracted Federal funds under the Commonwealth Decentralised Development Program in excess of $lm? Is the Minister one of those Ministers and are the other two Ministers the Minister for Primary Industry and the Minister for Veterans 'Affairs? 
This legislation- the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill and the cognate Billsprovides an opportunity for the Parliament to debate the need for a security organisation in Australia and to consider the nature and structure of that organisation and, more importantly, its role in Australian society. Already this debate largely has been concerned with the degree to which the legislation balances the need for adequate security on the one hand with the rights and the liberties of the Australian citizen on the other hand. The Australian Labor Party and the Opposition accepts as a principle that Australia, like every other modern nation state, requires a properly based security intelligence force to protect the nation. Whether we like it or not, the history of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, like that of other intelligence agencies in Western society, shows that it has often abused its role and the rights of the ordinary Australian citizen.  Mr Justice  Hope indicated at paragraph 1 17 of his report: 
Material before me establishes that there have at times been departures by ASIO from . . . 
He then mentioned principles, which he had previously outlined, as safeguarding the reputation of standards of freedom and democracy. Their justification has varied. Indeed, it is difficult somewhat now to determine the precise weight of the particular matters of justification. On page 127 of his report he cited the occasions on which ASIO had leaked information for political purposes to members of the public. There are instances where ASIO has leaked information for political purposes to members or supporters of the government of the day. I suppose that every member of this Parliament, on looking back at the record of ASIO, is aware of some circumstance in which the rights and the liberties of the ordinary Australian citizen have been abridged to some extent by these actions. 
I was acquainted with a situation in my own State involving two prominent citizens. One of them was a migrant from the Greek community and the other a migrant from the Italian community. For years they were refused naturalisation on the basis of an adverse security report. It took a change of government for them to acquire that right. They are now two distinguished members of the Victorian Parliament. I was aware of the situation of a young man who had professional training, who was not normally politically active, who was a member of the Victorian Public Service and who applied for permanency in the Public Service. He had the backing and the support of his permanent head but was refused that appointment on the basis of an adverse security report. All the inquiries that I made- I accept the young man as being truthful- indicated that basically all that he had ever been involved in were one or two moratorium demonstrations. For particular family reasons he felt deeply about the issue involved, as did hundreds and thousands of other Victorian citizens. But because he involved himself in those demonstrations, the whole future of that young man was put in jeopardy. In every one of these cases the real problem was that there was no redress available to the individual concerned. There was no court to which he could go. There was no way in which he could have rectified a statement on his dossier that may have been completely untrue. 
That sort of situation was also the subject of very strong and adverse comment by  Mr Justice 
White from South Australia in his inquiry. He looked at some 41,000 dossiers. Imagine the cost to the public of just accumulating that number of dossiers.  Mr Justice  White, in his inquiry into the situation in South Australia, found as follows: 
I have seen a number of cards where information, patently false to my knowledge, has been used to the attempted disadvantage of certain persons . . . 
My perusal of Special Branch files shows that many hundreds of people have done nothing more than take an active part in many causes which time and changing opinion have usually proved them to be right . . . campaigns against involvement in the Vietnam war or conscription for the purposes of that war, the importance of the environment and ecology and so on. They are the kinds of activities that active persons with a social conscience and a vision of a better Australia are entitled to be involved in without the brand of suspected subversion . . . 
That is the way in which  Mr Justice  White found. He referred to a number of dossiers where the information was patently false, to his knowledge. Let us ally that finding with the information made available to the Parliament. The estimation made by the Australian Law Reform Commission, based on information supplied to the Parliament by the then Attorney-General in respect of telephone taps prior to the 12 months before 12 August 1973- the estimation was made not by the Labor Party but by the Australian Law Reform Commission- indicates that as many as 12,000 different people may have been the subject of official evesdropping on as many as 68,000 different occasions. 
That is a gross and, in my view, unjustifiable erosion of the rights of the average Australian citizen going about his business, being involved in the workings of his own political system. Whether we like it or not, that is a history which this Parliament just cannot sweep under the table lightly and say: 'Now we have got a new Director-General and it is all going to be all right from now on '. As I have already pointed out, the actions- often they are illegal- of the security forces adversely affected and caused loss and disadvantage to thousands of Australian citizens who had no redress by way of judicial scrutiny and no opportunity to right the real wrong that was done to them. That being the history of the matter, I believe that this Parliament ought to look at the situation frankly and that we should not pretend to ourselves that what so grievously occurred in the past could not possibly occur in the future. This Parliament now has a very clear duty and an obligation to see that it does not. 
Any security intelligence gathering organisation in the discharge of its statutory duties, in my view, has a prime duty and a prime obligation to protect the rights and the liberties of the Australian citizen. There has been a tendency in drafting this legislation to argue that because of the high reputation and integrity of the present Director-General- I include the AttorneyGeneral as well- members of parliament ought to be satisfied with the present legislation. I for one do not accept that argument. I believe that legislation of this kind ought to stand in its own right and that there ought to be no presumption in its favour, no liberality of interpretation, simply because the character, the reputation and the integrity of the incumbent of the office of Director-General or, for that matter, the Attorney-General, the Prime Minister or the Leader of the Opposition, is high. This legislation is very critical to the proper operation of our security forces and, indeed, to the hard won rights of the ordinary Australian citizen. There should be no presumptions of liberality because we like the personality or the character of the Director-General, the present Attorney-General or any of those other people who as a result of their responsibilities have to be involved in weighing carefully important security decisions. 
-Well, I listened to the honourable gentleman's arguments earlier. The problem with him is that he believes it can be presumed that everybody on his side of the House is a decent, law-abiding citizen, and that everybody who disagrees with him and his somewhat narrow political views is not entitled to the benefit of that presumption. He tends to believe that people who disagree with him are likely to be subversive and ought properly to be the subject of some sort of security check. 
I listened to the honourable gentleman very carefully. I was concerned to hear him argue so illogically that the same sorts of standards and prescriptions that apply to a company or a trade union- which is a public organisation, a voluntary organisation, like a company, with rules laid down- ought to apply to a security service, in the face of the findings of  Mr Justice  White and  Mr Justice  Hope and in the face of all the body of accumulated evidence that the laws have been broken and the rights of the ordinary citizen have been transgressed. Try as the honourable gentleman may, he cannot sweep those facts under the carpet. Therefore I say that this is an opportunity when one does not make the sorts of glib presumptions which in the past have eroded the rights of the ordinary Australian citizen. 
The thrust of the Opposition's amendments is designed to ensure that this legislation is carefully weighed and considered. We have done this by preparing a series of amendments. We will argue in the Committee stage that the present definition of 'subversion' is too wide. I would say that it is probably wide enough to encompass all those people who presently quite legitimately are engaged in political opposition to the concept of uranium mining. In this second reading speech I want to concentrate not so much on the arguments that are more appropriate to the Committee stage but on pointing out how much of the thrust of our amendments goes to the whole question of supervision and accountability. Basically that involves four major propositions. First of all, it involves strengthening the role of the Minister, and I would say that that is very much in accordance with the great traditions of Westminster. Ultimately, any security structure has to be responsible to the Minister, the Minister has to be accountable to Cabinet, and Cabinet has to be accountable to Parliament. There are certain matters which obviously are matters of discretion and security and there is a clearly established parliamentary procedure by which the Minister will not disclose information or give answers which he believes go to the question of the security of the nation. But surely there can be no argument in Australia in 1979 that we need to be strengthening not merely the institution of Parliament but the whole concept of ministerial responsibility. 
Our second thrust involves the direct involvement of the Leader of the Opposition. I believe that that is a safe, wise and prudent precaution because our parliamentary system is a system of checks and balances. Under our parliamentary system, the Leader of the Opposition today can easily be the Prime Minister tomorrow. Without taking a short term, politically sectarian attitude, I believe that it is appropriate and proper that on these matters that go to the whole question of national security the Leader of the Opposition, whoever he may be, ought to be properly involved and the consultation ought to be real and effective. 
We have also raised the question of a permanent, independent and periodic judicial review. The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  was concerned about that. But are we proposing anything more than a periodic investigation of the kind made by  Mr Justice  Hope, an updating of his report? That would not trammel the security service. Does anybody believe that the Hope report weakened and eroded the basis of our security intelligence organisation? I have not heard that argued, not by one member in this debate. All we are proposing, as part of the permanent fabric of this legislation, is that in order to keep our security service on the rails, instead of there being a casual exercise, depending upon the whim of the government of the day, there is a permanent and on-going process by which the Parliament, the government and the people of Australia can be informed. What we have also argued is that there has to be auditing accountability through the Auditor-General. No-one is suggesting that the Auditor-General is going to check every voucher for tea money. What it means is a general accounting, supervising role. It is as simple as that. That was recommended by  Mr Justice  Hope. 
The suggestion has also been made that this legislation ought to go to a legislation committee. I, for one, strongly support that suggestion. I find it extraordinary, in a Parliament of this kind, that when we get a piece of legislation that amends the companies Act or the patents Act, and therefore affects corporate and commercial relationships, we have a parliamentary committee examining fairly technical and often complex problems of commercial law. Is there anything more important than the relationship that ought to exist between this Parliament, the Executive, the security and intelligence service and the people of Australia? Given the complexities and the needs for checks and balances in that situation, is there any more pressing set of questions which could be quite properly examined by a legislation committee consisting of members from both sides of the House? I do not necessarily say that a committee will find all the answers, but I do believe that it would serve one very important purpose; it might serve the purpose of endeavouring to lift our security and intelligence organisation out of the traditional, historic role of party politics which is part of its history. 
It is time that this Parliament looked at the importance and the relevance of this legislation and the sort of role that needs to be performed by our security intelligence organisation. I believe that that is a good suggestion. Has it been suggested by the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner),  who is in charge of this legislation, that these issues are too complex for a legislation committee, or is he suggesting, on the other hand, that they are too simple, and do not need to be examined? I believe that this legislation is one of the most important pieces of legislation ever to come before this Parliament. I think that it has to be said, frankly, that what is seen by the government of today as subversive, whether it be a Labor government, or a Liberal government or any sort of combination  (Quorum formed).  I was making the point that what is seen by the government of today as subversive, can become by tomorrow an act of statesmanship. The best example of that is the attitude of the leadership of this Government towards China. Unfortunately, it is true in many cases that a leader in the Third World who today can simply be dismissed as a terrorist, by historic precedent can become a Prime Minister or a President tomorrow. This Parliament needs legislation which will ensure not only that our security intelligence service can play its role effectively in a complex and continually changing international and national situation but also that that security service does not simply pay lip service to the rhetoric of civil liberties but by its very charter gives meaning to the checks and balances which would make that service - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 


Motion ( by  Mr Hodges  ) put: 
That the question be now put. 
The House divided:  (Mr Deputy Speaker- Hon. Ian Robinson) 
Ayes.......... 67 
Noes.......... 31 
Majority....... 36 

<graphic href="115131197909195_62_5_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="115131197909195_62_5_3_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="115131197909195_62_5_4_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="115131197909195_62_5_2_A.jpg"></graphic>

Question so resolved in the affirmative. 
-If one were to approach this clause in another way, could any member of the Government say: 'If we were in fact to accept the amendment so that the words 'likely ultimately' were omitted from the Bill, would we seriously jeopardise the functions and the activities of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation?'. That would leave a definition section of subversion which states: 
Activities that involve, will involve or lead to, or are intended to involve or lead to, the use or violence or other unlawful acts for the purpose of overthrowing or destroying the constitutional government of the Commonwealth. 
I believe that if the clause were worded in that way that would be a sufficiently wide mandate to enable ASIO to properly discharge its responsibilities to the Government and to the people of Australia. 
I will tell the honourable member what the difference is. Even though we might want to be preoccupied with the KGB or the Federal Bureau of Investigation, I think our responsibility has to be with our own intelligence Organisation. One cannot judge the activities of that organisation in a vacuum or on a basis of what it is going to do or is likely to do in the future. One has to look at the historic background of that organisation. Looking at the background of ASIO, no member of Parliament can say that in the past it has not abused its prerogatives and has not- in many cases wrongly, on a number of occasions illegally- jeopardised the fundamental rights of many thousands of Australian citizens. I do not ask the honourable gentleman to accept my word for that. I ask him to look at all the independent judicial inquiries which have examined the record. 
I am sorry if the honourable gentleman takes that view. Obviously he has not looked at the detail of the Hope report. If he looks at the Hope report he will find that  Mr Justice  Hope referred quite specifically to numerous occasions on which, for reasons which he made clear in his report, he was not prepared to enumerate. I remind the honourable gentleman to look at the details of the findings of  Mr Justice  White in South Australia. Could there be any stronger indictment than the fact that he indicated he looked at some 41,000 dossiers and he stated: 
I have seen a number of cards where information, patently false to my knowledge has been used to the attempted disadvantage of certain persons . . . 
Can one have a stronger finding than that? 
I am delighted to have that interjection. I was not wanting to take up the time of the House, but let me inform the honourable gentleman that  Mr Justice  White did explain. This is what he said: 
My perusal of Special Branch files shows that many hundreds of people have done nothing more than take an active part in many causes which time and changing opinion have usually proved them to be right . . . campaigns against involvement in the Vietnam war or conscription for the purposes of that war, the importance of the environment and ecology and so on. 
Then he states: 
They are the kinds of activities that active persons with a social conscience and a vision of a better Australia are entitled to be involved in without the brand of suspected subversion . . . 
Let me take the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  back to the situation when, in my own State, in Melbourne, some hundred thousand people, by virtue of their view of a former government's involvement in the Vietnam war, and by virtue of their view about conscription, marched as was their right. When they marched, the Leader of the Liberal Party in this House accused them of being pack raping bikies, raping democracy. I ask the honourable gentlemen opposite to look back to their positions at that time. Did they not say that there would be blood flowing down the streets of Melbourne? Was there not going to be violence and were not the whole constitutional foundations of our democracy threatened? Of course, that is what they said and the  Hansard  record shows that they not only said it but also believed it. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! Once again, I think I had better drag the honourable member for Melbourne Ports back to a discussion of the word 'ultimately'. 
I was just coming back to that very point. I am referring to an historic situation where it was the considered view of the people who now comprise this Government that that sort of action was undermining the whole democratic system and there was no way that such action by a citizen would not fall within this definition. 
I am sorry, I do not know how to put it to anyone as dense as the honourable member. I keep trying. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member for Melbourne Ports will not use extravagant language that may impute the goodwill of another member. 
I withdraw that,  Sir. The  term 'likely ultimately ' is so wide that it involves a substantive political judgment which covers virtually any form of legitimate political activity in this community. For example, one of my colleagues might decide to hold a street corner meeting in order to speak against some of the policies of this Government and he might get a large audience. I have heard someone as mild and gentle as the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  being accused in such circumstances of inciting the people in Queensland to violence. The point is that we should not give our security intelligence forces responsibilities for legal interpretations which by their very nature must involve some subjective analysis as to whether there has been force, or whether the actions in question, are an essential part of the political fabric of the particular organisation which is under scrutiny, and use of that force is part of the ongoing methods that they regard as both legitimate and proper. Use of the term 'likely ultimately' means that a whole range of very normal political activities and citizens who are involved in normal political activities can be encompassed in that definition and because of that can be the subject of a security dossier. That is the thrust of the Opposition s argument. 
I ask the honourable member for Dundas whether he has not been involved in such political situations. He may have been speaking on a street corner- I do not know whether he does things like that- or he may have been speaking at a heavy meeting of his party's State council. Can he say that he has never been involved in a situation that was 'likely ultimately' to involve the use of force? 
I do not want to go into the internal details of the Liberal Party. I believe that the omission of this particular clause would not neuter the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, lt would give that organisation a very legitimate and proper charter. There is no compelling reason for parliamentarians having to balance the rights of the ordinary Australian citizen and the rights of a security intelligence organisation or to make any presumption in favour of that organisation as against the rights of the 
Australian citizen. That is what it comes down to. I believe that the first duty of any government instrumentality or any government police force is to preserve and enhance the rights of the Australian citizen. Legislation which by its very definition tends to reduce the rights and liberties of the Australian people is bad legislation. This clause is too widely drafted. I support the argument which has so ably put by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen ). 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I remind the Committee once again that we are debating an amendment proposed by the Opposition to remove the word 'ultimately ' from the clause. I will insist that honourable members devote the majority of their speeches to debating whether it should or should not be in the clause. There is one thing I must say to the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. I did not interrupt him, being a gentle soul like the honourable member for Capricornia, but I will not allow him to continue talking while I am speaking from the Chair. That applies to the House generally. 
I want to take up the point which the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton)  was making by referring to an existing situation in Australia. The thrust of our arguments goes to the deletion of these two words 'likely ultimately'. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The Chair understands that only one word is mentioned in the amendment. 
That is right, but that is the context. Let me postulate a set of facts. The problem is: What sort of political problem do we drop on the plate of the Director-General? I wish to refer to a situation which is occurring constantly in Queenland, namely, the question of street marches. If a citizen participates in a street march in Queensland- street marches are against the law- does that constitute a set of circumstances which ought to be brought to the attention of the Director-General for the purpose of keeping such a person under scrutiny and under surveillance for the purposes of this Act? That is, does the act of marching by a person who feels strongly against that law render the citizen who exercises that right subject to the definition of 'subversion'? 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! Honourable members have made their speeches. 
My own view would be, and I believe many members of the Liberal Party would support my view, that the action of any citizen in marching in order to protest against a law that prohibits marching is not the sort of act which ought to attract the operation of this section, and it should not attract the attention of the Director-General. 
-Well, here it comes. 
I am grateful for the interjection because - 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! The Chair is not grateful for the interjection. The Chair still wants to know how you think the situation would be overcome by omitting the word ultimately'. To my mind you still have not established this. 
-That is what I now propose to deal with. If one were to have a DirectorGeneral who was a man of small '1' liberal approaches, and he looked at this section on what falls within the definition of subversionand subversion is what we are talking aboutbecause the act has to involve or lead to an unlawful act- he could rule that the act of marching was an unlawful act. On any interpretation, I think it is true to say that the act of marching will lead to an unlawful act because it will involve a breach of a law which, whether people like it or not, is unlawful. 
-That is right. We have now got to that stage. The question now is whether that act was carried out for the purpose of destroying the constitutional government of the Commonwealth or of a State. I take the viewand I believe many small '1' liberals would agree with me- that the act of marching by a citizen who wants to protest against a State government which says that he cannot march without a permit, is not the kind of political or social action which ought to attract the operation or the attention of security forces in order to prescribe that citizen as being involved in a possible act of subversion. When that problem arises and is on the desk of the Director-General I think that if he were to take the view that I have just expressed, he could argue that way. But can any DirectorGeneral, no matter how small '1' a liberal he might be, or could the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  for that matter, take the view that the act of marching cannot constitute a situation which is likely ultimately- and that is the problem- is likely ultimately to overthrow the State? 
There can be no doubt that the Premier of Queensland has made it perfectly clear that he regards the act of marching per se as ultimately directed to overthrowing the State. The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  says that he believes that way too, although it depends, he seems to think, what time of day or night the march takes place. The point I make is that the use of the term 'ultimately' involves a series of judgments. It is a very different thing for anybody to say: 'Well, perhaps a march today and tomorrow might not ultimately involve the overthrow of the state '. 
-That is right. That is the dilemma, and I do not believe that the DirectorGeneral ought to be placed in that dilemma. If I have to choose as to the role and the responsibilities of our security organisations, I do not believe they ought to be wasting time collecting dossiers on people who are marching up streets in Brisbane and being grabbed by sturdy policemen. I take the point made by the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  about Burgess, McLean and Philby. The point about all of those gentlemen is that they were not the type of people- they were too well bred; they were so much part of the establishment to attract the attention of the security organisation - 
I appreciate that; I am going to come to that. Not only were they part of the security organisation, but the security organisation, instead of worrying about Burgess, McLean and Philby, was probably trailing some trade union secretary to a meeting. That is the dilemma. The dilemma of this clause is that it imposes a responsibility on the Director-General which means that he does have seriously to consider whether he is going to waste the time and funds of his organisation by placing officers of security in buildings in Brisbane to take photographs of people who are exercising their democratic rights. That is what it comes down to. I do not believe that that is a situation that ought to be on the plate of the Director-General. I think that far more serious and far more important things ought to be occupying his attention. Whether one likes street marches or not, that argument is really part of the ongoing democratic argument in our community and in my view ought to be excluded from security surveillance. So long as this clause is worded in this way I do not believe any Director-General could safely say: 'Well, I take the view that those actions by those citizens cannot be likely ultimately to lead to an overthrow of the state '. 
This is political conjecture that he is involved in where I think he would be bound to act somewhat strictly in accordance with the terms of the legislation. That is what worries honourable members on this side of the chamber. I do not believe that those sorts of actions ought to be able to be placed within the context of subversion because I do not believe that they are subversion, and I do not believe that the DirectorGeneral ought to have to consider whether those actions constitute subversion, and they should not be taking up the time and the funds of our security organisation. That is the point I make. To leave the clause in this way creates that problem for the Director-General. I come back to the point that I made previously, that a narrow definition- and it will be slightly narrower if the amendment is carried- will not, in my view, seriously hamper for one moment the operations of our security organisation. I do not believe that we should be involving the Director-General of Security in situations where we give him a definition that is so broad, so wide that he finishes up having to involve himself and having to involve his service in what has been described as spook activities which are directed towards the legitimate rights, the ligitimate expression of view and the legitimate exercise of the civil liberties of the Australian people. 
I think the difference between the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock),  the Government and the Opposition on this matter really comes back to an approach to the responsibilities- as supporters of the government see them- and the role of the security forces and our approach in balancing that role with the rights and liberties of Australian citizens. Again I repeat the point which does not seem to have formed any impression on the mind of the honourable member for Dundas. It is one of the functions of our intelligence and security forces to protect and enhance the rights and liberties of the Australian people. If we as a parliament and as legislators are to make a judgment, we must be conscious all the time of balancing those two factors. Again I make the point that I made earlier about this very clause. When we are dealing with the definition of subversion it is important not to cast the net so widely that we continually impose upon the Director-General the obligation to involve himself in surveillance activities and in activities related to subversion which is a very serious allegation. 
This legislation is asking the Director-General to continually involve himself in areas which in fact do not really go to the defence of the realm or to problems related to the role of our armed services. The difference between the honourable member for Dundas, the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  and members of the Opposition is simply this: We say that when it comes to balancing those two issues the presumption always has to be and should be on defending the rights of the citizen, not on imposing additional and complex responsibilities on the Director-General. 
Let me look at the width of that definition. The fact of the matter is, as the honourable member for Dundas well knows, that the attitude of the courts to the defence powers has always been one of wide interpretation. Whenever there has been a tendency to extend the power of the Commonwealth over the States or anyone else there has always been the tendency to look at the defence powers and at the traditional breadth of decision that the courts have always taken. 
-Not just in times of war. Let me look at the operations of the Department of Defence in relation to its handling of information for this Parliament and this Government. I refer to the speech that was recently made by  Senator Hamer  in another place. He made a very scathing indictment on the operations of that Department. The Department takes the view that almost everything it does can be defended and can be done in secrecy. Its attitude towards the Parliament is that because it is a defence matter none of us have any rights at all. So when we are talking about the defence powers we are talking about a tradition of judicial interpretation and about an attitude within the bureaucracy towards what constitutes the defence of the realm. We on this side of the Committee do not say that people ought to be able to deliberately obstruct and destroy the role of the armed services. What we are saying is that if that is what it is all about, then that of its very nature is an illegal activity. The Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs shakes his head. 
-Let me say this to the Minister: I find the situation extraordinary. On one view of the matter within the framework of this interpretation one could say that if  Senator Hamer  had made his statements in a public place or if he had repeated the same speech within the councils of the Liberal Party at its State conference it would be open to argument- and is certainly not an argument that could be lightly rejected- that that was an activity which interfered with and hindered the performance or functions of the defence forces. 
I was always paid better and had better briefs than the Minister and for good reason. 
I will be happy to join issue with the Minister at any time he likes. 
A group of railway workers, waterside workers or any other group of workers can involve themselves legitimately in a strike for a direct industrial purpose. They might want an extra $5 a week or extra long service leave. 
The difference between a parliamentarian and the average worker is that workers do not have the kinds of tribunals by which parliamentarians get their wage increases. Often, unlike honourable gentlemen opposite, they have to indulge in industrial action in order to keep up with the cost of living. They do not have wage increases handed out to them on a platter. If the honourable member for Kalgoorlie was paid on the basis of his performance he would be on the dole. 
The honourable member never has. He would know all about not working in an iron lung. He would never want payments on the basis of capacity of performance and certainly not on the basis of productivity in this place. It is extraordinary how honourable gentlemen opposite get upset and concerned about people going on strike. When this Government 's representatives go to International Labor Organisation conventions they recognise the right to strike. Any group of workers may be legitimately involved in strike activity although we may not agree with the purpose of the strike. Such a strike might be an incident that would hinder the performance of the armed Services. In that situation would we say that those people were guilty of subversion? 
The honourable member for Dundas says yes. That is the difference between Government supporters and members of the Opposition. The honourable member for Dundas is perfectly happy to give these very wide powers to an intelligence and security operation. I take it from his own interjection that he is perfectly happy with that provision. He wants the powers given to the Organisation to be so wide that they can encompass legitimate industrial activity. 
The honourable member for Dundas by his own interjection has disclosed both his purpose and his concept. That is why we are opposed to the length and breadth of this clause. I do not think that the Director-General of Security ought to have imposed on him the power to act in all those situations which arise in the community and which can have incidental effects on the defence forces. Nobody on the Government side believes- the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  certainly does not believe- that we are likely to be at war within five years. If the honourable member for Dundas believes that we will be at war in the next five years let him tell us. That is not the view of his Government. 
I was worried about this legislation when I first looked at it, but having heard the explanation of the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner),  I am now terrified. First of all, in the course of his tortuous legal argument he said that members of the Opposition had omitted to apply their minds to the word 'directed ' as it appears in the clause. If by implication the Minister is referring to activities which are primarily directed to obstructing and hindering, I would agree with him. But if that is what the honourable gentleman meant, that is what should have been said in the Bill. 
The fact is that by implication the thrust of the Minister's argument is that an activity, in order to fall within the definition of subversion, has to be primarily directed to obstructing or interfering with the performance of the Defence Force. That is not what the clause says. The clause refers to 'activities directed'. That is a broad definition. An action does not have to be primarily directed and there does not have to be a prior intention. An industrial stoppage or any one of a number of ordinary exercises in the daily life of a citizen which has the effect of being directed falls within the provisions of the clause. If what the Minister is talking about is where it is primarily directed, then the legislation ought to say that. That is the real thrust of the Minister's argument but that, of course, is not what the clause states. What really terrified me was his own analogy. I invite the House to contemplate that. 
What this Minister wants the House and the people of Australia to believe- it is the most extraordinary argument I have ever heard from a lawyer- is that some terrorist whom we shall call Boris, could make himself a bomb. He could manufacture it in his house, wander through the streets of Sydney with it in his Gladstone bag and go down to the wharf while the Minister is innocently going about his business. The Minister looks up and he sees Boris who presumably puts on his snorkel and his flippers and dives down and plants that bomb on the side of HMAS  Melbourne.  What then occurs? Boris goes off the wharf, takes out his little remote control button and it is not until he presses that button that the Australia Security Intelligence Organisation can move in and ask: 'What are you doing?' According to the Minister until Boris actually puts his finger on the button there is no illegal activity. It is all perfectly lawful. That example comes from a Minister of the Crown, a trained lawyer, who is handling this Bill in the Parliament. I do not want to give the Minister too many lessons in legal interpretation but let us go back to Boris manufacturing his bomb in his little house in the electorate of the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock).  Are honourable members opposite trying to say that if an ordinary police constable wandered into Boris's home because he believed Boris was involved in a starting price betting operation and found Boris with a bomb he would say: 'I only came about the SP betting operation. My word, you have a bomb there with you, have you, Boris? That is not an illegal activity. I will be back about the SP betting operation'. He then goes off into the night. Boris then walks through the streets of Sydney with his bomb in his Gladstone bag. He might even go up to a policeman and ask: 'Could you tell me where I can find Cockatoo Dock?' The policeman says: 'My, Boris, what have you got in your bag?' Boris replies: 'I have got a bomb'. The police constable says: 'You have not committed any breach of the law. Cockatoo Dock is that way. Don't do anything silly, will you, Boris'. 
-That is the argument put by the Minister. As a result of the friendly instruction by the friendly New South Wales constable Boris finds his way. He walks onto the wharf. Anybody who has ever walked onto a wharf knows that there is" always a pile of regulations that cannot be jumped over. There are many bylaws governing what occurs there. But Boris walks on with his bomb. This place always has policemen on duty. A policeman asks Boris: What are you doing Boris?' Boris replies: 'I have got a bomb here'. The policeman says: 'That is not illegal because we listened to  Mr Viner,  you know that very learned lawyer who is charge of the ASIO Bill on behalf of the Government. We will ring up ASIO and if you actually press the button you will be in trouble. But see you later Boris because there is nothing we can do'. So the policeman watches Boris put on his flippers and his snorkel and plant the bomb on the side of HMAS  Melbourne.  Even then he does not do anything because of what this Minister who is in charge of this legislation and, God help us, in charge of our liberties, has said. We are dealing with the crime of subversion. This Minister says that until Boris presses the button no crime has been committed. Well, let me just say to the Minister, more in pity than in anger, that the act of manufacturing a bomb in any residence anywhere in Sydney or in Melbourne or anywhere at all - 
I might sound like him but the honourable member looks like him so that makes us equal. The act of manufacturing a bomb anywhere is an illegal act and I do not have to tell that to the Parliament. I ask any honourable member to go outside and ask any police constable who does not draw half the salary of the Minister whether walking around a public place with a bomb is an unlawful activity. Do not ask the Minister but ask any average police constable about walking onto a wharf with a bomb. 
Indeed, even being there without lawful authority is an offence. I would say that by the time poor Boris even got his explosive substances together- before he actually reached the wharf- he would have committed a number of breaches of State laws and local council by-laws. There would be so many unlawful activities in which he would have been involved that any security intelligence operation that did not have that situation covered would be grossly derelict in its duty. The enormity of it is that the Minister who is in charge of this legislation has the gall when he invents a hypothetical situation to justify the far-reaching provisions of this Bill to produce an example which is not only demonstrably and palpably legal nonsense but also it is grossly misleading the Parliament and the people of Australia. Why would he do it? He is not altogether a legal fool. Why would he want to invent and produce an example that is so demonstrably an palpably false? It is because he knows that he cannot justify the situation. 
The honourable member for Dundas is a lawyer. I invite him to get up and tell me whether he believes it is possible to manufacture a bomb, wander around his electorate, get down to Cockatoo Dock and plant it on the side of the  Melbourne  without breaching- never mind Commonwealth laws- any of the local State laws. If the honourable member believes that I invite him to get up and tell me. I will listen very patiently because I suspect that the honourable member for Dundas as a lawyer does not want to get into this argument. He will leave the Minister with his own deplorable example. The point I am making is this: Why, with all the examples that are available, would the Minister choose such a bad one. He chooses such a bad one because he is desperate. Acknowledging the arguments which he cannot meet and which have been put forward by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and acknowledging the intrinsic logic of the arguments that have been put forward the Minister is unable to answer them. He resorts to the mythical terrorist who is going to destroy the HMAS  Melbourne.  Everyone knows that HMAS  Melbourne  is the most lethal weapon in the Australian Navy. Every time it puts to sea it sinks something. He produces this imaginary terrorist and creates a palpably false situation. He puts a position to this House which is a palpable legal absurdity. As I said at the beginning, this clause is bad enough, but when I hear these sorts of arguments, I am terrified that anyone ought to have these sorts of powers because what we are dealing with are the rights and liberties of the ordinary Australian citizen and what this clause is dealing with is the crime of subversion. 

 - Mr Speaker, I speak in support- 
Motion (by  Mr Fife)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-Is the Minister for Housing and Construction aware of the fact that if a single income family with one adult on average earnings and a dependent spouse and two children was able to save even 25 per cent of disposable income it could accumulate only $2,500 in 1978-79? Is the Minister also aware that the medium price of a home in Sydney increased by $15,000 to $62,000 in the financial year ended June? Does the Minister acknowledge that such a situation makes it impossible for young home seekers to acquire a deposit for house purchase? Is the Minister therefore concerned at the increasing deposit gap? If so, what action does he propose to take to enable young families to acquire a home? 
I bring the House back to the terms of the motion, which is clearly and specifically directed at the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The Prime Minister and other Government spokesmen have endeavoured to turn this attack from the real issue- that is, the question of the Prime Minister's responsibility to maintain the integrity of his Cabinet- to a defence of the right honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  to an attack upon the New South Wales AttorneyGeneral, and then to an attack upon anybody and everybody. This issue is clearly about the maintenance of the Westminster system and the duty and obligation that rest upon the Prime Minister to so order the affairs of his Ministers that they are not involved in either private or public companies in a manner in which the integrity of their office can be assailed in any way. That is what the tradition of Westminster requires of the Prime Minister. The purpose of this motion is to point out how he has failed to honour that obligation. 
To what was this House exposed to as a result of the failure of the Prime Minister to carry out his obligations? We say quite clearly, and we have maintained this attitude all the way through, that what the Prime Minister should have done as soon as there were any allegations of this kind- not just allegations- made by the Opposition was to satisfy himself about the integrity and the probity of an inquiry into companies of which a Minister is a director. It is our view and it has always been our view that when allegations of that nature are made the Minister, whoever he be, should stand down in order to maintain the integrity of office. Now that is the thrust and the heart of the matter. I suppose all of us today could feel some sympathy for the right honourable member for New England, who was virtually forced to put to this Parliament his plea of not guilty. Why was the honourable member for New England in that situation? He was in that situation partly because of his own determination to cling to office but fundamentally because the Prime Minister failed to carry out the obligations which rest upon any Prime Minister to maintain the integrity and honour that goes with the position of Minister of a government. 
Let us examine the approach that has been adopted in this matter by the Prime Minister and some of his Ministers. The Prime Minister correctly pointed out that the Finnane inquiry was a correlation of facts upon which conclusions had been drawn. Let us examine that correlation of facts. I will not deal with the conclusions. Let us deal with the facts that are not in dispute and cannot be in dispute. First of all, there was a misappropriation of over $594,000. Of that misappropriation, $4,000 was paid directly to the right honourable member for New England and the bulk of the funds - 
I would say that the question of whether a sum of $4,000 was paid to a company director- that is what we are talking about- is clearly a demonstrable fact. It was either paid or it was not paid. I would have thought that that was a fact which clearly was not in issue. It is also a demonstrable fact that the bulk of the funds was paid to the benefit of that company director. It is also a fact that there was a round robin for passing cheques between various companies. 

 - Mr Speaker, if you want to get  into the  argument you should get onto the other side of the House and then we can get on with it. With great respect, I am entitled to put my case in my way. 
I withdraw it. There were acts of forgery. There was also an understatement of income - 

 - Sir, the right honourable member for New England agrees. What I have said, if you had listened - 
I am not attacking the character of the right honourable member. What I am saying is that there are facts which are not in dispute. I have not alluded to any facts which have been the subject of dispute by the right honourable member. I am not reaching the conclusion that was reached in the report. I am just simply saying that there is a fact. I am not going to the conclusion. It is a fact that there was forgery. It is also a fact- it has been admitted in this House at a previous time- that the right honourable member for New England signed a document referring to losses by misappropriation by persons unnamed. They are all facts. 
The real question is: At what time were those facts brought to the attention of the Prime Minister? As recently as 30 August the Prime Minister was asked questions in this House as to what he had done to inform himself in this matter. On all occasions the Prime Minister has said that he was informed. If he was informed, surely the House is entitled to know whether the Prime Minister was informed of these facts. If not, why not? If he was so informed, why did he not require his Minister to stand down? As you are well aware,  Mr Speaker,  the act of standing down is not an act which attributes guilt. It is simply a process which has been adopted time and again to allow the government of the day to get on with its business while a particular set of allegations is sorted out. That is the thrust of the Opposition's argument. 
In all of the verbiage that has been thrown across the table, that essential issue has not been dealt with by the Prime Minister. The House is entitled to be told by the Prime Minister at what stage he became informed of those facts and at what time he took the view that it was appropriate for the Minister to stand down. The thrust of our case is that if the Prime Minister had been carrying out his responsibilities, the appropriate and proper time for the Minister to stand down was when these allegations were first raised and an inquiry was underfoot. That standard has been adopted in respect of other Ministers. It is a standard which has been adopted by other governments. Why was that standard abandoned on this single issue? That is the question that has to be answered by honourable members opposite. 
Dealing with integrity and the way in which arguments are put in this House, I am appalled at the way in which Ministers of the Crown were allowed to attack the integrity of the AttorneyGeneral of New South Wales. He is a politician and I suppose that he can look after himself. But it is an extraordinary situation when, after all these allegations are made, we are told by the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia  (Mr Anthony)  that there ought to be a royal commission into  Mr Finnane.  A man who has discharged the obligations cast upon him, a man whose probity in his professional business has never been challenged at any stage, is suddenly the vehicle for the most slanderous attacks by Ministers opposite. I would say, in defence of the Attorney-General of New South Wales, that he is under an obligation to see that the provisions of the Companies Act are observed. If a felony has been committed he is not permitted to allow that felony to be compounded by some private sweetheart deal. He is also under a clear duty to ensure that corporate crooks are not exempt from an inquiry because of their political connections. The logic of the Government, if one follows it as it has emerged from the Prime Minister and some of his colleagues, is that if the jurisdiction is state jurisdiction which has a Labor government and if the person concerned happens to be a political supporter of this Government or a prominent member of the Liberal Party, no matter what laws under the companies Acts are broken, the Government will simply say that it is all part of a huge political conspiracy. Is it seriously suggested, when it has been found that forgeries have taken place, that  Mr Walker  or  Mr Finnane  was involved in inventing that evidence? When a document is signed by the former Minister for Primary Industry in which he says generally that there has been a misappropriation and that taxation claims were made in respect of that, is that an invention of the State Attorney-General? The political conspiracy theory is an act of political fantasy by desperate men. 
What would have happened if the Finnane report had exonerated the former Minister? Would there have been all these allegations against  Mr Finnane?  I refer the House to the view of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  about the Finnane report which we heard today. There is a well known process which you,  Mr Speaker,  would be familiar with. It occurs in all jurisdictions from time to time. If counsel acting for and on behalf of a client believes that the nature of a jurisdiction or, indeed, the judge or the investigator, is for any reason likely to have bias in the conduct of an inquiry- it has happened time and again as you would be aware  Mr Speaker-it  is respectfully and properly pointed out and it is dealt with. If in fact it is now argued that  Mr Finnane  was some kind of political persecutor of the right honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  why was the point not taken earlier? Why was it not raised at an earlier point in time by the Prime Minister? What did the Prime Minister have to say in this House on 14 November 1978 about  Mr Finnane?  When this question was being debated he said: 
I make no aspersions about the integrity of the person conducting the inquiry . . . 
That was said by the Prime Minister on 14 November 1978. I find it extraordinary that on 14 November 1978 the Prime Minister was perfectly happy to accept the integrity and honour of  Mr Finnane.  I ask the House to listen to what the Prime Minister went on to say in respect of an allegation made by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  He said that questions on this matter ought to be directed to  Mr Finnane  or to the New South Wales Government and further said:   . . because they are the ones conducting the inquiry and they have better access to the information than any person in this Parliament. 
That was the view of the Prime Minister on 14 November 1978. Once the report came out, then of course the only tactic that was left to this incompetent Prime Minister who has created this situation, was to attack the Attorney-General of New South Wales, to attack the person who conducted the inquiry and to suggest to this House that the plight of the right honourable member for New England was the result of some kind of vast political conspiracy. That statement will not wash, because the reality is, despite the fact that the right honourable member for New England was asked many questions about this matter, that he maintained that his position was that of a unique phenomenon unknown to the law- a nominal director. If one can get off with those sorts of funds as a nominal director, it is pretty fortunate for some of the other directors that the right honourable member for New England was not a full-blown director. 
During his defence he got down to the stage of attacking in this Parliament a former business colleague- one talks about privilege- on the basis that he lent some lady in Hong Kong a sum of money. Possibly, if the deprivations on the company had not been so bad, that person might have been able to pay back that money if he had received his share of the cut. I just want to say that this sorry incident would never have arisen if the Prime Minister had adopted proper standards. But what were the standards we saw in this House today? We were told that the right honourable member for New England is a gentleman and that he would not do that sort of thing. The Government blames the former Labor Government, a Labor government Attorney-General and an inspector. I say this: A thief can pass for a gentleman when he has stolen enough money to make himself rich. Within the Fraser Government a rich thief can pass for a Minister of the Crown so long as he is a crony of this Prime Minister. 
I find it extraordinary that the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  will defend to the death the right of a farmer to withold his produce from market in order to effect a larger return to himself but finds it completely immoral that a working man, or tradesman who has got nothing to barter with but his skill, should want to exercise his right, if necessary, to withold his labour in order to increase his return. What is also appalling when one talks about the National Country Party, and perhaps when we look at its activities in Queensland it ought to be more appropriately referred to as the National Crooks Party - 

 -Mr Giles, we have heard the voice of - 
Motion ( by  Mr Hodges)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put. 
That the clauses be agreed to. 
I take up the point that the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  concluded upon. I would have thought that the Minister would have known from his own background and knowledge that there is a considerable degree of difference in the responsibilities that exist when commissioners are dealing with a wide range of industries. In some cases many of those industries traditionally are strike prone. Some of them have had bad records of industrial relations. There are industries, in which industrial tension, is more the rule rather than the exception. To say that a commissioner who has to deal with those industries, and to make decisions on the merits of the arguments in the case before him, for the purposes of resolving an industrial dispute, is in a like situation to the Public Service Arbitrator is to show a lack of understanding and comprehension of the complexities of industrial relations, which I think does not do the Minister due credit. Obviously the Minister has been stuck with this provision and he has to do the best he can with it. I share the view of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  that this is one provision that will be subject to constitutional challenge. 
I take little comfort from the views- albeit eminent views- of those advising the Minister. If all the views that were given to Ministers of the Crown by prominent lawyers in terms of the power of the Commonwealth had been correct, then many of the decisions made by the High Courts would have been more favourable to the Commonwealth. Ultimately the courts will decide the legality or otherwise of this provision. I am concerned about two things- firstly, the intent and, secondly, the sloppiness in the drafting of this clause. The Minister has not dealt in any significant way with the problems which this provision creates within the Commission itself. 
What does 'consult' mean? Is it a proper consultation if a commissioner meets his presidential member in the gentlemen 's toilet and, as they are standing there concentrating on other things, he says: 'I have got an interesting case before me. I am proposing to give the members of the Electrical Trades Union an extra $5'. As they adjust their clothing the presidential member says to the commissioner: 'That is interesting. They are not bad fellows in the ETU. I hope it goes all right', and then walks out the door. Is that a consultation? The one thing the Minister has not said is what is required. Is it to be a more formal procedure? Is a member of the Commission required to write a letter to his presidential member saying: 'Would you appoint a convenient time and place so that I can go over this material that has been presented to me because I am interested in carrying out the provisions of this clause?' What occurs when a commissioner says: 'I am going to give an increase of $10 a week because I have looked at all the merits and heard all the arguments. I believe that the proper decision on all the merits as they have come to me is that an increase of $10 is warranted'? He may say that nothing at all is warranted. What occurs if the presidenta member says 'I think that would be absolutely disastrous', but the commissioner says: 'You might think that, but with great respect, I have got to make the decision. I believe it is in the best interests of industrial peace if I make the decision in these terms'? Whose view is ultimately going to prevail? There is no provision or suggestion by the Minister. Presumably it will be all right - 
I respond to the interjection of the honourable member for Dundas. If the commissioner says that he has consulted and he sticks to his judgment, then the very point of the consultation process which was made by the honourable member for Dundas, namely, that some of the decisions in the past would not have been made if consultations had taken place, falls to the ground, because ultimately - 
-I would suggest to the honourable member for Dundas, who is probably an admirable conveyancing solicitor, that he should stick to what he knows because obviously he has never appeared before a commissioner or in an industrial tribunal. I say that with respect because if he has, does he really believe that in some of these industrial matters that come before commissioners in the normal course of discussion there is not continual, on-going conversation about the merits or demerits of the case? Of course there is. The problem that is created by this sloppy concept is this: Let me remind the Minister of the view of the Privy Council in the Boilermakers case which stated: 
The same qualities of fairness, patience, and courtesy should be exhibited by conciliator, arbitrator or judge alike . . . none of them should act without hearing both sides of the case. 
What happens if the commissioner takes that injunction to himself very seriously indeed and says: 'I have got the parties before me. I have heard their arguments. I am not going to consult without them being present. I am going to do it in open court so that all parties can hear the submission I am going to put'? Is that a procedure recommended by the Minister? Is that a method of consultation that is going to be accepted? Let me take the further point and assume that a commissioner disagrees strongly with the view of the presidential member and says: 'Well, whatever view you have got, I am sorry, I cannot accept it. I am going to decide this case on the merits and that seems to me to be a proper judgment in all the circumstances'. Is the commissioner bound to disclose in handing down his decision the fact that he consulted with the presidential member? Is he bound to say that, having consulted with the presidential member, he arrived at a different view? If he does not, can it be a ground of appeal that there has been no adequate process of consultation or that the consultation process was not fully carried out? 
I think it is obvious from the Minister's demeanour and the way in which he has presented this matter to the best of his ability, and with his background knowledge, that he cannot be happy with this clause. It is a clause which will create difficulties for the functions and the operations of the Commission. I do not believe it adds anything at all to the settlement or resolution of industrial disputes. I take the point that the process of conciliation and arbitration, the determination of the complex issues as they arise, involves not merely the exercise of judicial discretion, but the parties before a commissioner are entitled to the view- often the proceedings are somewhat informal, as the Minister well knows- that all aspects of the case as they have been put will be properly dealt with and that the arguments will be decided on their merits by the commissioner who is bound to do just that because that is the obligation of his office. 
I do not believe that anything is added at all to the complex area of industrial relations by saying: That commissioner has got a duty to do in terms of this legislation, to represent presumably the view of both parties, and give his view of their arguments to the presidential member. For what purpose? That is the question. For what purpose? If a person is good enough to be appointed a commissioner he is good enough to exercise the obligations that go with that office. The Minister has not said what purpose the consultation will fulfil. He has presented a concept which will compound and make more complex industrial relations and which will add nothing at all to the settlement of industrial disputes. This is a bad clause; it is legally sloppy and the Minister ought to abandon it. 
I rise to correct very quickly any impression that the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  or anyone else may have got. I have a high regard for both the capacity of the  deputy  presidents of the Commission and for the commissioners themselves. The thrust of my argument and of the arguments of the Opposition is that this clause gives no guarantee that any more consultation than that which takes place at present will, in fact, take place in the future. I believe that the way in which this clause is worded and the thrust of the arguments that have been presented lead to a reasonable conclusion amongst those who appear as parties before industrial commissioners that the authority of the commissioners has been eroded in this way. 
The commissioners are compelled presumably- and I adopt the phraseology of my colleague, the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)-  as a condition precedent to making a judgment on all the facts and all the evidence which they have heard to consult or to discuss with a person who, whatever his qualifications or his capacity, has not been a party to the hearings and has not had the benefit of hearing the arguments, but who will somehow be expected by this Government to exercise some effect from outside knowledge, on the ultimate judgment that is handed down by the Commissioner. I think that is a bad concept. I think it will erode the authority of commissioners and it will intensify and make more complex the whole system of industrial relations and negotiations. 
Question put: 
That the clause be agreed to. 
The honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  addressed himself to general arguments about strikes and, to some extent, I suppose one can feel sorry for him because he was probably misled as to the purport of this clause by the second reading speech of the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  The Minister, in giving the reason for the policy of the Government, stated that at the present time the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission may provide payment to employees in respect of time not worked because they were engaged in industrial action. This is the reason advanced by the Minister for the insertion of this clause in the Bill. The Minister's approach is undesirable by any standards and one therefore has to direct the attention of the Minister, the Committee and the community to what the law is. The first question to be asked is: Should the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission have power to deal with industrial stoppages and claims for arrears of wages in respect of those stoppages? I argue that that is not only a desirable power for the Commission to have but also a necessary power. Accepting the Minister's explanation to the Committee of the constitutional prerogatives of the Commonwealth in terms of industrial power, and if there is any section likely to be subjected to substantial challenge, it is important for us to ask whether it is consistent with constitutional principles for the Parliament to fetter the Commission 's power to deal with a dispute or a settlement function by preventing the Commission from considering or adjudicating on a particular type of industrial dispute. What is that particular type of industrial dispute? What is the nature of the claims that come before the Commission? What are the types of judgment that the Commission has made? 
The law on this is clear and was not adverted to by the Minister in his second reading speech. That is why honourable members such as the honourable member for Kingston are so grievously misled in respect of this matter. Under past decisions of the Commission wage claims have been granted only where the Commission has found that in respect of industrial action against an employer it would be unfair to expect employees to bear the loss of wages. In the most recent case of the Plumbers and Gasfitters Employees Union of Australia v. Costain in 1979,  Mr Justice  Alley stated the position of the Commission when he said that there was no proper basis for payment for time lost as a result of industrial action unless the actions of the employer were so extreme that the refusal to work was the only reasonable course open to the employees. Is that an unreasonable proposition? Are there not circumstances in industrial situations when the only reasonable course of action open to employees is either to refuse to work or to impose a ban? For many years I personally was involved in situations in which it was necessary for me as a lawyer to visit an industrial site at which there had been a fatal accident. Perhaps, if some honourable members opposite had had that experience of going on to a site where a man had been killed they would not be quite so flippant in their attitude to this particular clause. In all sections of industry there are industrial problems about safety. 
Although the working conditions for members of the Waterside Workers Federation of Australia have changed because of technology still there are methods used in the loading of ships which vigilance officers of the Waterside Workers Federation are fearful of and believe will cause loss of life or limb. If the union cannot negotiate, it will black ban that job until the matter is resolved. We are all very sorry when there is a major industrial accident but has the Minister or any honourable member opposite been on a site after a major industrial accident? Unfortunately in Melbourne a girder on a bridge collapsed and dozens of men lost their lives. 
-I am reminded by the honourable member for Lalor that 37 lives were lost. There was a threat of a ban and a stoppage to ensure that the legal rights of the families were protected. The Government of Victoria responded to the situation instantly. The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  referred to the mining industry, and a mining tragedy occurred only recently in New South Wales. Honourable members opposite have not been involved with such an industry. Is it unreasonable for a worker to say: 'I will not go into that situation because it is dangerous. I am not going to risk life or limb'. There is a process by which, once he takes that position, the matter can be dealt with. Is it unreasonable for the Commission to say: 'Well, yes, we have looked at all the evidence. We have visited the site. We find that the attitude of the employer was so unreasonable and so unconscionable that it would be a dire penalty to say that these men were not entitled to their wages'. 
-I wonder whether there is adequate protection in a State bank. If the honourable gentleman were a teller and the bank had been raided on four or five occasions by someone pointing a gun, I wonder whether he would claim to be entitled to say to the employer: Look, I am tired of being threatened. I want proper safety precautions in this bank or I will not work'. 
I have been on building sites where builders' labourers have lost their lives. The honourable gentleman will never be in an industrial situation where he will put his life in jeopardy. The worst thing that can happen to him is for him to lose his seat. I suggest that he look at the legal situation and the position as it is actually dealt with by the Commission. The honourable member for Kingston is saying that in this situation the Commission should have no power at all to resolve the disputes and then to say to the employer: 'You have acted so unconscionably, so badly and so neglectfully that you have possibly breached State laws or industrial regulations such as safety regulations'- that situation occurs time and time again- 'and we will make a determination which entitles these men to recover their lost wages'. That is the position in law and I challenge the Minister to deny that that is the position. He will not do so. He has a little more integrity than some of the gentlemen who sit behind him. They are so one eyed in their attitude towards the trade union movement and its members that any law will do. I suppose that in respect of some honourable gentlemen opposite who have never been in the situation I could be tolerant and say: 'Well, perhaps if you had had the experience and knew what was happening in industry you would have a little more compassion'. If honourable members opposite disagree with my statement on the position of the law I challenge them to argue the merits of the decisions which have been made by the Commission. That is the issue and I believe that the Commission ought to have this power. I challenge the Minister and his colleagues to show where the Commission, in the exercise of that power, has grievously erred. I do not believe that that can be done. Unless it can, there is no justification, other than blind warped prejudice, for the inclusion of the clause in the Bill. 
I want to use the opportunity presented by clause 17 to point out the deep concern of all members of the Opposition at the cavalier way in which the Government has chosen to treat this Parliament by gagging this legislation, legislation which affects the rights of some two and a half million people, legislation which dramatically alters the basic fabric of the Act dealing with conciliation and arbitration and the settlement of industrial disputes. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)-  Order! To date, in the Committee stage of this Bill there has been a fairly wide ranging discussion on all points. I believe that if every honourable member in the chamber were to show a little tolerance, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports would quickly get to the substance of what he was endeavouring to say in relation to the rest of the Bill. However, the point of order raised by the honourable member for St George does have some relevance. 
The basis of my argument that the consequential amendments which are based upon the principles which the Government has adopted should not be passed is that I believe the principles which are contained in the Bill should not be adopted. That is the thrust of the argument I desire to put forward. In doing so, I condemn this Government for its blatant interference with the rights of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. I condemn the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  who, right throughout the consideration of this Bill in its Committee stage, has chosen to rise only once to explain amendments and to answer criticisms made by members of the Opposition. This legislation affects the rights of some two and a half million people. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 22 March 1979: 
Did he state in opening the Packaging Council of Australia Seminar that the Commonwealth Government's efforts to facilitate uniform packaging and labelling laws will dramatically reduce costs for a large sector of Australian industry and result in price benefits to consumers. 
If so, up to present time (a) what cost benefits have been achieved, (b) which manufacturers received the benefits and (c) in what areas of productivity were they 
What price benefits have been obtained by consumers to date, and to which groups of consumers did the benefits apply. 
-The amendment proposed by the Opposition is designed to extend the bipartisan approach by which the Opposition believes the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill ought to be approached. I adopt the terminology of my colleague, the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones),  and the references made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  This Bill enables our security organisation to have powers that on any view of it greatly infringe upon and impede the rights and the liberties of the Australian citizen. It is unfortunately true that in the past the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and its powers have been used for party political partisan purposes. I refer the House to the very strong and principled statements of  Mr Justice  Hope on this very issue. In the fourth report, volume 1, page 2 1 9 at paragraph 46 1 ,  His  Honour stated: 
If there is to be a bipartisan approach it is necessary that the opposition pany or parties should be informed about security matters, and the appropriate way to do this is by consultation between the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition, and by reports by the Director-General of Security to the Leader of the Opposition. This practice is regarded as basic in various parts of the democratic world and should be regarded as basic in Australia. With a truly bipartisan approach I think that supervision by the executive and, where appropriate, by a review tribunal, will protect both the interests of the nation and the interests of citizens. 
I think that is a statement of high principle. I believe that if it is followed by this Committee it will have the effect of taking ASIO to an position where it can command the respect and support of the community, because the average member of the community will know that whatever changes of government take place, the Leader of the Opposition, whether he be a member of the Liberal Party, the Labor Party or the National Country Party, will, as a matter of right, be fully informed. That is a tremendously valuable safeguard to the operations of the very considerable powers that we are giving under this legislation. I, for one, commend that safeguard. It would not matter if I were a member of a Labor government and this Bill were our legislation, I would say that the security and the protection of the rights and liberties of the Australian people would be enhanced and safeguarded by the simple fact that the Leader of the Opposition whoever he may be- whether it is the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  or the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  who is sitting at the table, or anyone of a host of prominent members of the Liberal Party- would be kept fully informed as of right within the terminology of the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. That would have one very great safeguard. It would safeguard the rights and liberties of the Australian people against any temptation by the Attorney-General of the day to use the very considerable processes within this legislation for bipartisan purposes. I believe that that is the great safeguard embodied in the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. 
It is a matter of principle. I do not think that any of us like the provisions in this Bill. We reluctantly believe that many of these powers are necessary for a security organisation, but in giving those powers to a security organisation we need to have a system of checks and balances to ensure that the prerogatives of this Parliament and through those prerogatives the rights of the Australian people, are maintained. If the view that has been expressed by the principal spokesman for the Government on this matter to the effect that the Leader of the Opposition will be fully informed is correct, there should be no objection to this amendment because that would spell out the situation and make it perfectly clear. If this amendment were to be accepted, many of the arguments that have already been put forward in respect of the legislation could be transfigured inasmuch as the people of Australia would know that, whatever changes of government or of personnel take place, the Leader of the Opposition as spokesman for the alternative government must as of right be kept fully informed of the exercise of those powers which strike most at the rights and liberties of the average citizen. I commend the remarks of the 

 Deputy Leader of the Opposition and of my colleague, the honourable member for Lalor. 
I re-enter this debate to deal with two points. One relates to the statement made by the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  in general argument that one is stuck with what one says, and I refer here to the direct quote of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack).  That quote was not dragged out of the air by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen);  it was a statement made by the Attorney-General in the public media at a time when, it has to be presumed, he understood and had knowledge of the very considerable rights and powers that he had under this legislation. No one was forcing his arm up his back when he stated clearly and unequivocally that the Leader of the Opposition would be given as much detail as the Minister. I would have thought that statement to mean what it says. 
In Division 2, clause 25 ( 1) of the Bill states that the Minister before issuing a warrant is to have reasonable grounds for believing that there are, for example, certain records in premises. It is the Minister's view that there are reasonable grounds which is a condition precedent to the issuing of a warrant on the application or request of the Director-General of Security. What we are dealing with here is the right of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation to break and enter premises, to search those premises and in the course of searching to open any safe or box or blow any particular safe deposit box, to take out any parcel or envelope, to examine any records found therein, to make photographs of them and to remove any records so found. They are very wide powers indeed. Under clause 26 the Attorney-General, again at the request of the Director-General, can exercise his right to Issue a warrant in respect of listening devices. Let us get back to the point which seems to have been overlooked by the honourable member for Dundas. What we are dealing with is interference with the basic rights of the average Australian citizen. 
What we are dealing with is the right of the Attorney-General, acting on information in his possession, to say: 'I think it is perfectly all right if ASIO wants to enter the house of the honourable member for Dundas, to break and enter, to remove documents and make photostat copies of private records because I think ASIO ought to have that information '. 
I turn to the other statement made by the honourable member for Dundas. He said- I think correctly- that Attorneys-General often have different views as to the way in which they perceive their tasks. I think that is historically correct. I have no doubt that there was a very real difference of approach, for example, between the late  Senator Greenwood  and  Mr Justice  Murphy in the discharge of their roles. Just as there can be differences in approach between political opposites I have no doubt there would be such differences between various Ministers operating in the Government at present. Indeed, if the Australian Labor Party attained government there would be a difference of approach among its Ministers too. 
It is precisely because there is that difference of approach, that different perception of tasks, that the rights and liberties of Australian citizens would be made more secure if we adopted the phraseology and the standard set by the Attorney-General when he said that he was prepared to make as much detail as possible available to the Leader of the Opposition. We say that it is perfectly reasonable to suggest that application of this principal ought to be written into the Act. Is there anything intrinsically wrong with that? If there were a change of government and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  were the Prime Minister, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  were the Attorney-General and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  were the Leader of the Opposition, would anything be more likely to ensure that the Attorney-General did not misuse these very wide powers for party political purposes than the fact that if a warrant was issued the then Leader of the Opposition would be bound to be informed of that fact? There is nothing new or novel about that. I come back to these words of  Mr Justice  Hope: 
This practice is regarded as basic in various parts of the democratic world and should be regarded as basic in Australia. With a truly bipartisan approach I think that supervision by the executive and, where appropriate, by a review tribunal, will protect both the interests of the nation and the interests of citizens. 
It is because Attorneys-General perceive their roles differently, and because it cannot be denied that there have been grave abuses in the past, that we believe the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition provides some real check, some real safeguard, on a potential abuse of powers. Is there anyone who could say, having regard to what has occurred in the past, that there would not be an abuse in the future? Is not the purpose of this legislation, is not the reason that we have drawn issue on such a wide range of points to prevent abuses of the powers written into the Bill? Members on both sides are concerned to see that there should be no repetition of some of the abuses that have taken place in the past. 
In my home State at present a retired justice and a senior police officer are going through the process of extracting and burning the files on some hundreds of thousands of perfectly reputable citizens. I do not believe there is anything outrageous in the amendment proposed by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. Of course it is true that there are functions of government which must truly be discharged as an exercise in government responsibility. But we do not diminish from that role by endeavouring to create an intelligence and security organisation which carries the respect of the community, which can be believed to be operating in a truly bipartisan way. We do not diminish the function of the Attorney-General or the responsibilities of the Director-General of Security by writing into the Bill a provision that where these warrants are issued- they involve a very considerable encroachment on powers- information on that matter will be supplied to the Leader of the Opposition? I reject completely the reductio ad absurdum argument of the honourable member for Dundas. He said that telling the Leader of the Opposition would be like putting in a direct link to the Kremlin or to some spy. All the spy would have to do is to telephone the Leader of the Opposition and say: 'My name is Boris'- if I may use that name again-' and I am a spy. I believe a warrant has been issued in respect of me,  Mr Leader  of the Opposition. Could you tell me whether any such warrants have been issued lately?' It is suggested that the Leader of the Opposition could then say, after looking up his file: As a matter of fact, I am sorry to tell you that a warrant has been issued'. That is nonsense. We have to look at the standards in other pans of the world. Traditionally this sort of information is made available to the Leader of the Opposition. The amendment refers to information being made available to the alternative Prime Minister who will be bound to pay regard to the conventions of that  office  and the information will be treated by him in exactly the same way as it is treated as a matter of security by the Attorney-General. 
The honourable member for Dundas, in order to take a schoolboy debating point, deliberately attempted to misconstrue what was said by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, This amendment will go a long way to securing the confidence of at least half the Australian community who at present are concerned about this legislation and want to see legislation which will mean not only that our security force can have the powers that it needs to act but also that the rights and hard won liberties of the people are maintained and are secure. I commend the amendment to the Committee. 
The problem that this clause creates and the reason the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has moved for its deletion are that it strikes at what we regard as a cardinal principle of our system of government. I always find it extraordinary at the opening of Parliament and when from time to time the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  talks about terrorism and about our system of government that we always pose the threats to our system of government as coming from some external force, some bomb thrower, some foreign power or some group of subversives. In fact our system of government ultimately depends upon the capacity of this Parliament to maintain the traditions of that system. Those traditions mean simply that the Executive and Cabinet are responsible for the day-to-day running of the affairs of the nation. They mean that Ministers of the Crown are responsible not merely to the Executive but ultimately to the Parliament and are accountable to the Parliament for the activities that take place in their names. That invokes the whole doctrine of ministerial responsibility. It is important in my view that that doctrine be maintained. 
The problem with paragraph (c) of clause 8 of the Bill is that it creates a situation in which the Director-General of ASIO is entitled to withhold information from the Attorney-General. The clause states: 
In the performance of his functions under this Act, the Director-General is subject to the general directions of the 
Minister, but the Minister is not empowered to override the opinion of the Director-General- 
concerning the nature of the advice that should be given by the Organization to a Minister, Department or Authority of the Commonwealth. 
The term 'Minister' of course includes the Attorney-General. So if there is a conflict and the Attorney-General says to the Director-General: I believe that I am entitled to have this information in order to know how you conducted a particular aspect of your activities', the DirectorGeneral is perfectly within his legal rights to say I am very sorry, Attorney-General; I do not propose to tell you'. That creates a very serious inroad into the whole concept of our system of government. Let me give the Committee an example. Let us assume that without conferring with the Attorney-General the Director-General provides information to a Government department in respect of a dossier that it might have on a public servant and, as a result of the information so given, the public servant suffers a disadvantage, a loss, dismissal or the withholding of his promotion. Let us then assume that it is discovered that that information was completely in error. We have a serious situation where a citizen has suffered loss or damage. What process is available to the Leader of the Opposition in that situation? Does he move a motion of no confidence in the Attorney-General? The AttorneyGeneral has a complete defence to the Parliament. He says: 'I did not know. I was not told.' So do we move a motion of no confidence in the Director-General? Of course, it is unheard of and is outside the traditions of the Westminster system that a permanent head of any sort becomes the target of this Parliament by that kind of substantive motion. 
It is the Minister who is answerable to the Parliament and it is the Minister who has to accept collective responsibility for the acts done in his name. What we are doing here is creating a very serious exception to that rule. I do not believe that this Parliament should ever surrender its right to hold a Minister accountable for the actions which are performed in his name. Whatever problems have occurred in the past, although there was some ambiguity, I think it was the better and more correct view that the security organisation was answerable to the Attorney-General. This provision creates a very important exception which in my view undermines the whole structure of our system of government. But it will not stop the charade that goes on; it will not stop the  Speaker  putting on his robes and the Parliament continuing all of the ceremony; it will not stop the talk about our democratic system when Parliament is opened. 
This very Government, this very AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)-  these people who talk about our system- are creating an exception which could ultimately undermine in very serious ways the rights and liberties of the Australian people. 
What is the argument for this provision? Do we not believe that the Attorney-General, whoever he may be- whether it is the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  who is at the table or one of the other Ministers who may ultimately be elevated- is less worthy than the Director-General to have knowledge of these matters? Do we say that the Director-General is a man of such unblemished character that his judgment ultimately ought to prevail as against the rights of the Attorney-General on these very serious issues? 
For the reasons that I have advanced I believe that this clause ought to be withdrawn from the legislation and that the amendments moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition ought to be accepted by the Government. I believe that it is important for the Parliament to say: 'In these situations, it is the Attorney-General rather than the Director-General whose functions and responsibilities we will strengthen'. What would the Minister for Immigration  (Mr MacKellar)  do if relevant information went from his Department to another department without his knowledge and without his concurrence? 
I am delighted to have the interjection from the honourable member. Clause 8 (c) provides quite specifically that the Director-General is empowered to pass information 'concerning the nature of the advice that should be given by the Organisation to a Minister, Department or Authority of the Commonwealth'. That is a matter for him. If he chooses not to consult with the Attorney-General, if he concludes that he does not want to inform the Attorney-General, clause 8 gives him that right. I am sorry that my erudite friend, the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  who one day might even be the Attorney-General, is prepared to vote for legislation which would limit his traditional rights, his traditional prerogatives, rather than the rights and prerogatives of the Director-General. Within our system of government it is the Attorney-General who is answerable to the Parliament and it is the Attorney-General who is subject to any censure motion or motion of want of confidence. 
No, because the clause states: 
The organization shall be under the control of the Director-General. 
Sub-clause (2) states: 
In the performance of his functions under this Act, the Director-General is subject to the general directions of the Minister, but the Minister is not empowered to override the opinion of the Director-General. 
Paragraph (c) specifically states that the Minister is no empowered to override the opinion of the Director-General: concerning the nature of the advice that should be given by the Organization to a Minister, Department or authority of the Commonwealth. 
The definition of the word 'Minister 'includes the Attorney-General himself. So if the DirectorGeneral says 'I am not going to tell the Minister that', the Attorney-General has no power to compel him to give that information. I believe that is a very serious inroad into the whole concept of ministerial responsibility and therefore is a very serious derogation of the rights and powers of this Parliament. I fully support the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition because it restores and provides the balance whereby the Minister is accountable to the Parliament and ultimately the Parliament is accountable to the people of Australia. 
I can understand why the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  feels that it would be inconsistent to vote for this amendment to clause 8, having voted against the previous amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  I certainly do not agree that these amendments do not stand judgment in their own right and I certainly do not agree with what I regard as the specious argument of the honourable member for Denison when he says that the effect of these amendments would be to politicise the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. It was an unfortunate example that he chose when he talked about the politicisation of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. It was precisely because for years the FBI was beyond the reach and the effective surveillance of the Attorney-General and that it had a figure like Hoover that grave abuses took place. If one looks at this clause one sees that it gives the Minister access to all records of the Organisation. 
Proposed sub-clause (4) which has to be read in conjunction with clause 8, limits the availability of a dossier or record concerning a particular individual unless the Director-General considers that it is in the interests of security that the Minister should have such access. That is the very amendment which would have prevented the events which were described by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, namely, when the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  when Minister for the Army, used the Parliament of Australia to name a woman and her son simply because he had this sort of access. If this amendment were passed there would be no way that that could happen. Is it not true to say, as the honourable member for Denison suggests, that the mere fact that the Minister is possessed of knowledge of certain files and has access to all records puts him under pressure. The Minister may inadvertently under pressure in Parliament let the information slip out. All I can say is that the honourable member for Denison has been in this Parliament long enough to know that a Minister cannot be compelled to answer a question on any matter that he chooses not to answer. I would have thought that if any AttorneyGeneral were asked 'Is there a file on  Mr Hodgman?',  he would say: 'Under no circumstances would I admit the existence or any knowledge of that file '. 
There have been abuses in the past in respect of rights of individuals unfortunately from people who occupy very senior positions in this Government. This amendment which has been moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition would make it impossible for such an abuse ever to occur again. Perhaps the laryngitis from which the honourable member for Denison is suffering has affected his legal perception because if he looks at the clause properly he will see that it does two things: It strengthens the position of the Minister in relation to the Director-General' and at the same time it provides very real and effective safeguards to prevent the use of dossiers for political purposes. 
-I second the amendment and, in speaking to the amendment, I make this point: I have never heard two more specious arguments than those used by the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner),  who is at the table. I listened to the constitutional nonsense that is involved in his motion. What we are told is that if a period is spent in the Senate debating a particular Bill, that is time, presumably in the view of this Government, that ought to be deducted from the debating time in this House. The logic of that argument presumably is that if the Senate spent double that amount of time in considering the legislation, there would be no need at all for debate in this chamber on these matters. That is not only constitutional nonsense from the Minister. He is a lawyer and he knows it is constitutional nonsense. It is also political hypocrisy of the worst sort. 
Of course, the other argument is that we look at what a government did at some other time. Many present members of this Parliament were not in this Parliament at the earlier time referred to. To say that what somebody did in the past is binding upon honourable members who were elected to this House at the last election is constitutional nonsense also. Let us look at the substance and the merits of the argument. What we are being told is that it is more important for honourable members to have two hours for dinner. This is the reality of the argument. The great 
Liberal Party- the party that talks about liberty and freedom believes that it is more important for all members on the Government side to be able to go and wine and dine for two hours than to allocate more than an hour and a half to consider the main Committee stages of the legislation. That is the logic of it. 
The honourable member for Canberra wants to put a gag on himself. I do not blame him. Most of the things he says are so unintelligent that he ought to apply a gag to himself. But there are many of us who are concerned about the rights and the liberties of the people of Canberra. I do not believe that, because, the honourable member or some of his colleagues wander off into a room with a handful of food and some bottles of wine and talk about great matters affecting the Liberal Party and the nation, they are discharging their obligations. What honourable members opposite are saying is that they can have two hours for those sorts of meetings but only an hour and a half is to be allocated for members of this Parliament to debate this Bill. What honourable members opposite are paid for is to put their arguments in this Parliament, to stand up and argue the issues that are involved in this very important legislation. There is no single piece of legislation that deals with the rights and liberties of the Australian people that is as important as this legislation. 
The honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite),  who is trying to interject, comes in here only to put up his hand to suggest the guillotine. He has not been present for any stage of the debate on these Bills. Of course, he is in here now to give the Government the numbers. I endorse very strongly the views previously put by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  He said quite properly that the Government by virtue of the numbers that it has in this House is entitled to use those numbers in order to get whatever legislation it wants through the Parliament. We understand that that is how the process works. If this process is destroyed it demeans this Parliament. It makes a laughing stock of the Parliament when the Government uses its numbers to deny honourable members the right to argue these issues fully, within the framework of their conscience, and to put the argument that they want to put. That is what it comes down to. 
I would defend the right of the honourable gentleman opposite to get up and put bis argument. I concede that he has been in the chamber for most of the debate, but I, and the people who elected him, want to hear his argument. On an issue as important as this I believe the Parliament does itself a great disservice when honourable members opposite simply walk in, and put up their hand for the gag and say: 'We have the numbers and we are going to use them'. Honourable members opposite should not believe that by gagging this Parliament they are going to stop the debate. The debate concerning these issues will continue in the community. They are important issues, and the debate will go on. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The thrust of the amendments moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  are twofold. Firstly, they not only again re-emphasise the attitude of the Opposition on this legislation but also endorse the principle that we previously followed in respect of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Bill,  namely that we believe that the AttorneyGeneral has to be placed in a position in which he is seen ultimately as having some real authority over the Director-General of Security. For that reason the thrust of the amendments is to strengthen the position of the Attorney-General as against the position of the Director-General in relation to the issuing of warrants. Secondly, the time factors are relevant. The amendments moved by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition are directed towards greater efficiency and to the establishment of an important principle. Therefore I commend them to the Committee. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clauses 12 to 19- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 20 (Issue of warrants for the Customs to intercept telecommunications). 
-In speaking to the amendments moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  I do not accept the analysis used by the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  who asked the question: Why should the judge be put to all this trouble? It seems to me that the answer to that question is that we are conferring very important powers upon our officers of the Bureau of Customs, and it is perfectly proper, in conferring powers essentially to tap telephones, that the judge who issues the warrant has before him all the available evidence upon which he ought to make a judgment. The granting of a warrant is not an exercise that ought to be taken lightly. The fact that it might deal with a potentially serious offence does not, in my view, of itself impose upon this Parliament the view that we should just simply adopt a set of standards which do not require a judge who has to consider whether he will grant a warrant with all the relevant evidence upon which he can make that decision. That evidence, it has been suggested, ought to be made available upon affidavit. It has also been suggested that when the judge grants a warrant on the basis of that evidence, he should indicate the basis upon which the warrant is granted and the time for which the warrant will last. 
I do not follow the interjection of the honourable member for Holt. What I am saying is that I believe that all judges are trained to weigh evidence. I believe that they will treat the application seriously within the terms of the Act. Anyone who has had any dealings with judges in chambers knows that judges deal with a large variety of applications of similar import. All we are doing is specifying those standards and those evidentiary procedures which we believe are proper evidentiary procedures upon which a judge shall or shall not issue a warrant. I would think that the real test- and this might have been the argument of the honourable member for Holt- is whether in any of these amendments we are imposing standards upon Customs officers in the performance of their duties which are either too high or too onerous. Looking at the amendments moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, I do not think that it can be seriously argued that we are doing so. What we are giving to a Customs officer is a power to put a telephone tap on a citizen's phone on the basis that he just simply suspects that there is likely to be a breach of security. What we are saying is that if he has that suspicion, and he establishes the basis of that suspicion to a judge, the judge, acting on the information before him, can then make a decision. 
I invite honourable members opposite to apply their minds to this question: Do these standards as proposed by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the amendments moved by him place a burden or a set of standards upon the operations of Customs officers which are onerous or which will prevent the proper implementation of the duties of those Customs officers? If the amendments are examined objectively and fairly, I do not believe that it can seriously be argued that it is too high a burden. All the amendments do is ensure that evidence will be properly presented to a judge upon which he will make his decision. That is the issue. We believe that the Act, as it is currently worded, does not give full protection to the rights of the average citizen. I am sure that all honourable members are concerned about the problems of drug trafficking and the problems that exist in this community in terms of the incidence of and the effect of drug traffickers. I am certain that all honourable members are concerned to see that those people are dealt with within the framework of the law. But it has not been unknown for Customs officers to abuse their powers and their responsibilities from time to time. 
If this Parliament is to give a Customs officer a power to place a tap on a citizen's telephone and to intercept messages, this Parliament must be satisfied that in granting that power we do so under circumstances and conditions which protect the innocent and which will, we hope, lead to the apprehension of the guilty. We believe- and 
I think that both the Government and the Opposition are in agreement about this-that judges, with their training and their capacity to weigh evidence are suitable persons to make that judgment. The real question therefore is: What is the basis of the evidence and the standards that we impose upon the Customs officer in presenting the information that he puts before a judge? We believe that the standards, as they are established in the legislation, are somewhat slack, having regard to the very important powers that are being granted. 
The amendments that have been moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition are balanced. It cannot be said on any real analysis that they impose upon Customs officers standards which are harsh, oppressive or onerous and will make it less likely for Customs officers to be able to carry out their duties fully, but that in imposing these standards- and we say that they are proper standards- we can be satisfied that such warrants as are issued will be issued to fulfil both properly and adequately the genuine desire of all members of this Parliament that those who are prepared to traffic or deal in drugs are apprehended and the full resources of the law used. But those resources, when we are dealing with a power like telephone tapping, have always to be used within the framework of the law. The amendments moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, I think, ensure that that situation will occur. 
I enter this debate to deal with some of the points raised by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman).  In doing so I make two points. The first is that in considering a narcotics offence I think we always presume that we are dealing with the merchandisers of hard drugs. In fact, if one looks to the definition of narcotics in the Customs Act and to the actual reference to narcotics in the Bill one sees that a whole series of offences can be covered. They certainly do not go as far as the purveying of hard drugs. A young man or woman returning to Australia carrying enough of what is fashionably termed pot, or marihuana, to fill his or her personal use, could be caught within the provisions of this legislation. I make that point because I think it is a point that ought to be considered. That does not delete in any way from the thrust of the argument in relation to what I think we are all basically concerned with, the trafficker of hard drugs. I think our approach to that is uniform. 
I am disappointed at the approach of the honourable member for Denison who takes the view that the requirement to set out the details as proposed in the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  is an insult to the judiciary. I wish to make several points about that. First of all, the honourable gentleman, who is a lawyer, has only to pick up copies of the rules of practice in the Supreme Court of Tasmania, the Supreme Court of Victoria or the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory to see set out in great detail the forms which professional practitioners have to use in making applications to judges in chambers. The forms are set out in some detail. That is not regarded by the judiciary as an insult to them, neither is it regarded by legal practitioners as an insult to them. It is in order that when dealing with these matters judges will have before them what is basically a uniform set of standards by which they can make a determination upon facts. 
Let me just deal with the honourable gentleman because I think he was a little glib in his handling of this situation. Setting out the details as the amendments proposed by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition does achieve two things. First of all it acts as a guide to all Customs officers who make an application. If this amendment were to be adopted by the Government, a Customs officer would be far less likely to be caught in a situation where a judge is entitled to say that he regards their application as not containing sufficient material. In fact, the Act itself sets out the criteria that the customs officer would have to fulfil in making his application. That provision does one very important thing. It establishes the set of criteria and the standards which Customs officers know and know that they have to deal with. 
Let me deal with some of the points and some of the problems that the honourable member for 
Denison was virtually trying to laugh out of this chamber. I do not see that it is anything too difficult in requiring a Customs officer to state in an affidavit to a judge that, on the basis of his experience as a Customs officer- he may have had some 20 years experience- that the circumstances - 
Or three weeks or whatever- that the circumstances of this case make the use of a warrant to tap a telephone imperative because there is no other effective method available, having regard to the nature of the suspected offence, which is likely to be successuful. That is a reasonable statement and, if contained in an affidavit, that simplifies the function for the judges. It is very important to try to establish, as far as possible, uniform standards. 
I disagree with my friend, the honourable member for Denison, when he says that, of course, all judges instinctively have an opposition to telephone tapping. I do not speak with that degree of authority because the honourable member for Denison knows as well as I do that judges in all courts, in all jurisdictions, within our system- I have a great respect for them- often approach particular offences in quite a different way because of all sorts of different fundamental attitudes. There are some judges, for example, as the honourable member would know, who take a far more serious view of crimes against the person than they do crimes against property. As an experienced practitioner, has not the honourable member for Denison ever stood at a listing of cases and decided that he wants a particular case- it may be an assault case or a larceny against property- on one list in preference to another. Of course, he nods his head in agreement. Why does he seek such a listing? He knows that if he gets a client before judge A as against judge B and given the nature of the offence, he is far more likely to get a better result for his client. That goes on every day in our courts. Experienced practitioners know it goes on. It is no insult to the judiciary. But it is important, therefore, that we understand these things. To say that every judge in Australia in every jurisdiction will have an automatic instinct against granting a warrant, I do not believe can be justified. Judges are like other human beings. They have all sorts of social attitudes towards these issues and they govern their attitudes. There is nothing wrong with that. That is known and understood by all practising lawyers. 
Now the benefit and the advantage of the amendments moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition are that they create, as far as is reasonably practicable, given the very seriousness of the issues with which we are dealing, a set of facts which are clear and known to the Customs officer. He knows that if he wants to make an application there are certain things that he has to put in his document otherwise he does not get to the first bench. 
-Well, the honourable member might scoff at that but if he has seen some of the sloppy applications presented by solicitors and members of the legal profession, who do not know their jobs, that from time to time have to be dealt with by judges he would not be scoffing quite so hard. If he wants to pick up an ordinary book of practice, he will find far more detail set out in that for the guidance and direction of practitioners- men experienced in the law- than is contained here for the guidance and direction of Customs officers who do not always have the benefit of that sort of detailed training. So there is a real benefit in this kind of detail. It makes the approach to be taken by Customs officers uniform. They know what is required of them in making these applications. 
Secondly, the fact that that is done also, I believe, over a period, will provide a far more uniform approach by the judiciary in handling these matters than if they are just left open. That is why I believe that they are beneficial. I am sorry to say to my friend, the honourable member for Denison, that I do not believe that he did his cause any real service by suggesting that somehow these procedures which operate, I believe, to the benefit of and to provide clarity to Customs officers in the pursuit of their duty are just a set of silly standards. I could show the honourable gentleman and he could show me in any practice book which exists for the guidance of members of the legal profession a set of standards which require far more detail than is suggested here. That, I believe, is the argument. 
I invite the honourable gentleman opposite to argue whether these amendments, if adopted, would make life more onerous for Customs officers. No one has joined issue on that claim. What they have endeavoured to do is to say that by providing a proper set of standards we are making requirements which are unnecessary. I believe that if the amendments are adopted it will be easier for Customs officers to know the requirements that they have to meet in making these applications. I believe that it will lead to a uniform practice by members of the judiciary and I believe that that will be a good thing. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)-I  call the honourable member for Dundas. 
The introduction of this legislation provided an opportunity for the Government to provide a measure of social justice to Commonwealth Government employees who, through injury or disease, are permanently or partially incapacitated and are not able in whole or in part to discharge their duties. It therefore provided an opportunity for the Government to give social justice to the families of those government employees whose death had deprived their families of their breadwinners. It was an opportunity for this Government to resolve areas of anomalies within the Act and at the same time to produce legislative remedies that could overcome the inordinate delays that bedevil the present administration of the Act- delays of such duration that they are a paramount cause of hardship and legal injustice to many Commonwealth employees. On any one of these criteria the first Bill fails. 
I want to deal firstly with the issue of rates. Until the election of the Fraser Government increases in compensation rates to Commonwealth employees and seamen took place annually. The last increase took place in September 1 976. 
That is a change. 
I move: 
Clause 2, page 1, line 10, omit ' 1 September 1979', substitute '1 July 1979'. 
This is a simple amendment, the principles of which have been canvassed during the debate on the second reading. The amendment is to date the increases involved in the Bill from 1 July so that Commonwealth employees get benefit of these increases from the beginning of the financial year rather than from 1 September 1979. Having regard to the fact that they have had to wait something like three years for any increases at all, we commend this amendment to the Committee. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Mr Holding's)  be agreed to. 
-I claim to have been misrepresented. 
I have been seriously misrepresented by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  He made allegations that extracts of my speech in respect of the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill were based upon the Staples document and he implied that I, as a member of the Opposition, had leaked that document to the Press. I wish to make this statement perfectly clear. I have not discussed any aspects of my speech, nor have I leaked any documents to the Press. As to the quotes which were used by the Prime Minister, I say that he did not fully quote from  Hansard.  If he had fully quoted  Hansard  in respect of the point that I was concerned to make about the similarity of executive acts in Nazi Germany, he would have seen that I had said- this will be recorded in  Hansard;  I do not have a copy with me but I have a very clear recollection- that as a result of my own research the only precedent that I could find where there was a similarity was in Nazi Germany. 
I have met  Mr Justice  Staples only once, for a period of about 10 minutes. This was at a social function where some hundreds of other people were present. I have not discussed with  Mr Justice  Staples - 

 Government members interjecting- 

-Before I was interrupted the point that I was making was that I have not at any stage discussed with  Mr Justice  Staples his view of the proposed amendments to the Act. I based my speech on briefing material which was made available to the Opposition at a series of meetings. At no stage did that material contain the Staples document. I completely refute the allegations of the Prime Minister. 
I wonder whether the ALP consulted, for instance,  Mr Justice  Staples when it wrote its policy. Who did it consult. 
There was no response from the honourable member. 
On what principle do we justify a situation where, if the person is a Commonwealth driver, he would currently receive $25,000? That, for a family in that situation, makes a very real difference. On what basis, on what sort of logic do we justify it? Even when this legislation is amended in respect of the very same situation, the lump sum payment that is given to a Commonwealth driver will be only $28,000- again, a significant difference. On what basis does the Commonwealth say, in respect of its own employees who are performing exactly the same work as private employees and who become involved in an accident: 'Well, you are somehow a second class citizen as against those working for a private employer'? That is the logic of it. That is the legislation which this Government brings into the House and we are told that it is a step forward. It is a step backwards. The rates that are involved as so-called amendments to the Bill, in my view, having regard to the claims for justice, to the delay in payments, are nothing less than a public scandal. 
It also has to be a matter of concern that the Government could have used this legislative opportunity to improve the machinery and to overcome the inordinate delays that now bedevil the system under the Commonwealth compensation legislation at the moment. For those honourable members who are not aware of the system, unless a determination is made by the Commission, there is no right of appeal. The average time for determination in a matter of controversy is at least 12 months and, more often, 18 months to two years. It is only after a determination is made, often at the expiration of that time, that the applicant can exercise his right of appeal, and that of course means further delay. So it is not unusual under the law for an applicant who is endeavouring to receive his payments to wait up to three years. The Tribunal has recommended a provision whereby, if there is no determination within six months, the applicant ought to have an automatic right of appeal. 
Let me take just two cases, chosen pretty much at random, which I believe indicate the practical effect on the rights of applicants. We are dealing with people who, as employees, have served the Commonwealth faithfully and well. I refer to the case of Eric Bratwatzki v. the Commonwealth. As I say, these cases have been chosen at random; I can assure honourable members of that. But they are chosen because they represent the range of delay that is now taking place. In that case, this man made a claim for compensation in December 1975. He has not worked since that date. He was seeking compensation for a back injury. The determination was made- and listen to this- on 2 August 1978. Liability was denied. It took from December 1975 until August 1 978 - and I am glad that the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  is in the House because he will understand what is involved in this- for a determination to be made and for this unfortunate man to be told: 'Well, we are going to deny liability'. It is only then that an applicant is entitled to make an appeal. In this case that man made an appeal. It was finally heard and dealt with by the Compensation Tribunal on 10 April 1979. On the appeal, the Commonwealth admitted liability for compensation. So let honourable members think about that, and let them think about the economic hardship and the injustice involved. That sort of situation is occurring right around Australia and, I would venture to suggest, in the electorate of every honourable member in this House. This situation was occurring at a time when an eminent Melbourne orthopaedic surgeon who had always supported this man's claims gave certificates to that effect.  His  reports have been in the hands of the Commissioner since February 1977. That is just one case; there are dozens of them. I suggest that anybody who wants to go to the office of any solicitor who practises in this field can be given a bundle of them. 
Let us look at the case of Ignatius Koukouras v. the Commonwealth. This man was an employee of the Australian Telecommunications Commission. The reference number is 72/3977. This man's claim was a comparatively small one; nevertheless, he was entitled to make it in respect of five weeks incapacity resulting from a back injury on 19 March 1976. He made his claim for compensation on 17 June 1976. The determination was not made until 1 1 August 1978 and at that stage, of course, there was a denial of liability. Frankly at that stage he almost gave it away, but he happened to run into his union representative, who insisted that he go to see the union solicitor. The application was made to the Tribunal on 1 5 May. The hearing was set down for 1 1 October 1979- three years later. And what happened three years later? The Commonwealth admitted liability. 
Any practising lawyer not only regards them as slow but also regards what is occurring as something that has to be a matter of major concern to this Parliament. As I have already pointed out, there has been a recommendation, of which the Government is aware, that if the determination is not made within six months of the application being made, there should be an automatic right of appeal. This was one occasion when these problems could have been remedied and these injustices resolved. 
I agree completely with the view of the honourable member for Denison. Justice delayed is justice denied. But the problem that one is dealing with here is that one is dealing largely with a group of people, many of whom are unaware of their rights. They are involved in a process which they do not expect will be so slow and unresponsive as it is. In the first case that I mentioned, the man has been on the age pension. He was waiting on the determination in order to obtain his proper benefits. The Government has been told of the inordinate delay. It has been told of the injustices that occur and, as I said, it has been the recommendation of the Commissioner for Employees Compensation that that situation be remedied. I do not believe that there is a single member of this House who does not believe that the situation ought not to be remedied and that people who are trying to do their job in the normal course of events and to discharge their duties and who, through no fault of their own, find themselves either the victims of accident or disease, are entitled to have their claims dealt with promptly and their cases resolved and settled. 
But it can take over two years to resolve a case, to get to the stage where the Commonwealth says: 'Well, yes, we admit liability' or: 'We deny liability'. When a matter is about to be determined after a delay of three years the Commonwealth admits liability. That is not a standard which the average private employer would tolerate from his insurer in respect of his own work force. It is not a standard that ought to be tolerated for one moment by any government in respect of its own work force. That is why I and members of the Opposition are disappointed with this legislation. We believe that in terms of economic justice and increases in rates the Government has approached this matter in a mealy-mouthed way. As I said, the increase of 12 per cent can be related only to the overall economic stringencies of the Government. It should have been related to movements in either the consumer price index or wages. There are a number of formulas. There is no way that any honourable member in this House, speaking for or against the legislation, can justify the figure of 12 per cent. It should have been closer to 30 per cent. All that would have done would have been to ensure that Commonwealth employees would keep up with other movements within the community. Having made those points, on behalf of the Opposition I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted to provide for 
an increase in payments in line with the Consumer Price Index since 1976; and 
automatic twice-yearly payments'. 
If the Bill is withdrawn I hope that the Government will act on the other matters I have raised. I believe that they are just as important in principle in providing effective social justice for employees of the Commonwealth. For too long, when compared with employees outside, Commonwealth employees have been treated as second-rate citizens. I do not know by what compelling logic we say that a private employer ought to be carrying burdens. State legislation will ensure that in almost every case workers in private industry who are injured and who are beneficiaries of a lump sum award or a table injury will receive more than their Commonwealth counterparts. It is time that the Commonwealth faced up to its responsibilities in this matter and that real justice was done to what is, after all, our own work force. I commend the amendment to the House. 
I move: 
Schedule, page 6, omit the Schedule, substitute the following Schedule: 

<graphic href="116131197910184_111_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="116131197910184_111_1.jpg"></graphic>

Basically, the purpose of this amendment is to update the Schedule to bring it into line with the arguments which were advanced in the Committee stage of the Bill. For the benefit of those honourable members who did not hear those arguments they are very simple and very direct, namely, the increases that are proposed in the Bill do not bear any relationship at all to movements in the cost price index or in wage movements. The amendments proposed to the Schedule are simply to update that Schedule to bring it into line with some real principle. 
I should like to take this occasion to point outbecause it seemed to be relevant, during another debate last night- that to date the only Government speakers who have been heard to support this legislation were the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  in the other place and the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt).  Apart from the Minister not one Government member has been prepared to rise in support of this legislation. This includes the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  who has more public servants in his electorate affected by this legislation than any other honourable member. He listened to the arguments of the Minister, took one look at the legislation, and left. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 20 September 1979: 
1 ) In view of the historical, anthropological and artistic significance of Aboriginal art sites, what steps have been taken to (a) record and catalogue and (b) preserve these sites. 
What officers in what section of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs are engaged on this work, and are they engaged in a (a) full-time work or (b) part-time capacity. 
3 ) What sites have been recorded and catalogued as at 1 9 September 1979. 
4 ) In respect of each of the sites referred to in part ( 3 ), ( a ) what was the nature, relevance and contents of the site, (b) what work has been necessary to preserve the site or contents and (c) what has been the approximate cost of the preservation. 
I had not proposed to enter this debate. However, the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  not only traversed issues which by their very nature are sub judice but also, in so doing, was concerned to attack the Attorney-General of New South Wales and  Mr Finnane-  he agrees with that- as part of an ongoing campaign which suggests that company investigations which have been carried out in that State have been unique in as much as they have involved bias, prejudice and procedures which were completely at variance with any principle of natural justice. If that is so, what I find absolutely extraordinary is why the honourable member for St George and all the honourable gentlemen opposite who have been so vociferous about what has occurred in New South Wales have remained absolutely mute hi a situation where, under a Liberal Government in Victoria, there have been a large number of investigations. Between 1974 and the middle of last year there were no less than 22 companies which were the subject of investigation. 
Government members are the people concerned to raise these great matters of natural justice. How was it that all the members in this Parliament who come from Victoria, who must have known about these events, were not concerned? The investigations only affected the directors of other companies. They did not affect company directors who were quite so politically prominent as some of their colleagues. How extraordinary it is that in respect of 22 separate investigations, on every occasion save one the document was tabled in the Parliament, was made a public document and was used by the Press. In less than half of those cases there have never been any subsequent criminal prosecutions. They are the standards that have operated since 1974 under a Liberal Government. 
I am following completely the line of argument of the honourable gentlemen who said that he was talking about investigations. Just as you were prepared to hear him analyse the situation in New South Wales - 
The point I am concerned to make is simply that honourable members are talking about evidentiary procedures that are followed in terms of reports and investigations into companies. 
Motion ( by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
That the question be put. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 25 September 1 979: 
1 ) What progress has been made in preparing a plan of management for the Kakadu National Park. 
Which offices of the Department of Science and the Environment are engaged in the preparation of these plans. 
What arrangements have been made to allow input into these plans by traditional Aboriginal groups, so that sacred sites and Aboriginal art sites are protected. 
Will the Minister invite public discussion on proposals contained in the plan of management, prior to that plan being adopted. 
What groups, organisations, companies or individuals have sought to make representations in respect of these plans of management, and when were the representations made. 
-I want to direct my comments on these Estimates to Aboriginal affairs. In so doing I want to draw the attention of the Parliament to what I regard as two major matters. One of them arose out of the Estimates Committee discussions and the other matter is, I think, of general importance. As all honourable members will recall, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  gave an undertaking that as soon as practicable within six months of a committee report being tabled in the Parliament, the Government would express its attitude towards the contents of that report. I am concerned about one of the more important reports dealing with the rights of Aboriginal communities. The report, prepared by the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, relates to Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders on Queensland reserves. That report was tabled in the Senate in November 1978. That means that it has been available to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  and to the Government for almost 12 months. To date it has not been the subject of any comment at all by the Minister in accordance with the undertaking given to the Parliament by the Prime Minister. That is a matter of concern and it continues to be a matter of concern, having regard to the response of the responsible Minister in the Estimates Committee wherein he indicated that the reason for there being a failure to comment was that the subject matter of that report continued to be the subject of discussion between the Government of Queensland and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. 
Honourable members will recall that the subject matter of the inquiry by that Committee, on which Government supporters formed the majority, was the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Reserves Communities Self-Management) Act and that its recommendations were unanimous. I do not want to go over the historic background because I think honourable members will be familiar with the circumstances. The legislation arose out of a promise made by this Parliament and by this Government to endorse the concept of selfmanagement of Aboriginal communities throughout Australia. Both communities have sent endless deputations to this Parliament and have made pleas to honourable members on both sides of the House, to the shadow Minister as well to the Minister. 
Aboriginal communities at Aurukun and Mornington Island have pointed out that despite the grandiose promises made by the Prime Minister and his Minister, it is perfectly apparent that it is the deliberate intention of the Government of Queensland, the Premier of Queensland, to continue with a policy- it predominates throughout the Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs in Queensland- of treating Aboriginal residents in Queensland as third-rate citizens. The Government of Queensland made no secret of the fact that it would frustrate any attempt by this Parliament to endorse, or acquiesce in, or even support the demands of the Aboriginal people of the Torres Strait Islands, and Aurukun and Mornington Island in particular, for selfdetermination. Every impediment that could be raised by the Government of Queensland was raised. Every technical point that could be taken was taken. It was the Government of Queensland on one hand and the Uniting Church of Australia and the Aboriginal communities on the other that looked to this Parliament and this Government for assistance. 
The unanimous report of the Senate Standing Committee, now almost 12 months old, made perfectly clear what the Senate Committee felt about the attitude of the Queensland Government. It recommended unanimously:   . . most attempts have failed to achieve any cooperative arrangement with the Queensland Government regarding management and control of the affairs of Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders in that State and the current agreement in respect of local government arrangements cannot, as yet, be seen as successful or as generally acceptable to the residents of Aurukun and Mornington Island. 
The Committee then went on again to recommend unanimously:   . . that Parliament enact specific statutes designed to deal with the conditions prevailing in different communities of Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders. The nature and form of any acquisition of property required to re-inforce the self-management scheme, and the type and extent of compensation payable in respect of such acquisition, should then be determined on a case-by-case basis according to the needs of different communities. 
We have a recommendation which, as far as this Government is concerned, will be consigned to the shelf and forgotten. I believe that reports by parliamentary committees are important. This particular report was of great social and political importance not only to the Aborigines who were the subject matter of the inquiry but also to Aborigines throughout Australia who are entitled to proper treatment on the basis of the referendum result carried by the Australian people. That referendum gave this Commonwealth Parliament grave responsibilities in Aboriginal affairs. Aborigines throughout Australia will determine the attitude of this Government in terms of its preparedness to stand up to the Government of Queensland. I suggest that the time is long overdue for there to be some positive statement and positive action taken in respect of that report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. 
The other matter that I want to deal with also relates to Aboriginal affairs. It was the subject of the Heritage Commission report recently made available to this Parliament. In that report honourable members will find a very significant and important statement about the importance of the preservation of Aboriginal sites. There are many of these sites throughout Australia. I think it is true to say that historically the Australian people, because of their attitude, have tended to regard the Aboriginal race as one which has not produced anything of cultural significance. Fortunately, I think that view is now changing and there is an overwhelming body of evidence that Aboriginal sites, particularly those with very significant rock paintings, are amongst the major prehistoric areas of art to be found anywhere in the world. I refer to the recent report of the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation which examined the preservation of the Quinkan Galleries on the Cape York Peninsula. The Committee had no hesitation in saying that it regarded the paintings at that site as part of the world heritage and that they should be nominated for the world heritage list. 
The Committee stated that this site and its paintings ought to be regarded as being of immense significance in terms of any evaluation of prehistoric art. During the parliamentary recess I was able to spend some time looking at other Aboriginal art sites, mainly in the Kakadu National Park. I believe that that national park, like other parts of Australia, has a virtual treasure trove of prehistoric art. It is not merely of significance to the Aboriginal people of Australia but also, I believe, of immense significance to all Australians. In my view, these art treasures are as significant as any to be found in ancient Egypt and they are as significant to the general knowledge of pre-history as anything to be found anywhere in Europe. Because we are a comparatively young country and because traditional attitudes are taken toward Aboriginal forms of culture, this Parliament has not paid sufficient attention to the need to fund adequately all of those bodies responsible for seeing not only that these sites are properly recorded but also that preservation of these very important art treasures takes place as a matter of major priority. 
In the answer to a question I asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs it was indicated that most of the work in recording sites was being done by the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies. It was stated by the Minister that responsibility in these areas was really a matter for State governments. But when one looks at the Budget allocation for the Institute, one sees that it has nothing like the funds necessary to carry on effective preservation work. These sites are not only of importance to the Aboriginal people, but also of immense importance to all Australians. The Government must regard it as a matter of highest priority in dealing with the allocation of funds to ensure that adequate funds are made available, that a proper policy of co-operation is developed between the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies and relevant State authorities to ensure that preservation of these works proceeds as a matter of urgency. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 

asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 16 October 1979: 
Further to his statement regarding denial by the States of Federal Government jurisdiction or authority over Aboriginals despite the 1967 referendum  (Hansard,  House of Representatives Estimates Committee A, 26 September 1979, page 83), does the Federal Government propose to take any legislative or other action within the next 12 months to implement fully the expressed wishes of the Australian people, as shown in the 1967 referendum result; if so, what, action; if not; when will the Parliament be informed of any Federal action in this matter. 
In this grievance debate I express my concern at the complete disregard and cavalier attitude of this Government towards a major problem which is confronting all Western capitalist-based economies; that is, the extent to which those economies are increasingly falling under the control of transnational corporations. Part of the current mythology from the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and this Government is that any foreign investment in this country, for whatever purpose, is good and should not be questioned or even objectively examined. This is at a time when the United Nations Organisation has found it necessary to create a monitoring program which continually analyses the role and operations of transnational companies throughout the world and, in particular, in Third World countries. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, the European Economic Community and the Council of Europe have all recently been involved in extensive examinations of the role of transnational and multinational companies and the effect that they have in the European economy. The purpose of that examination has been to endeavour to establish a code of conduct to deal with transnational companies. It is extraordinary that this issue should not be a matter of concern to this Government. 
In the United States of America, the home of the free enterprise system, the powerful Finance Committee of the United States Senate in 1973 completed a most exhaustive inquiry into the operation of multinationals in the United States. The terms of reference of that inquiry covered the implications of multinational firms for world trade and investment and for United States trade and labour. One is entitled to ask why the Government of the United States and all these other important international organisations find it necessary to involve themselves in these inquiries? The answer to that question is very simply multinational or transnational companies in many cases have more direct economic power than many nation states. 
They are, in fact, sovereign states in their own right. They are often capable, by virtue of their vast economic resources, of undermining national sovereignty and national economic policy, because they are capable of evading local controls and jurisdiction. Their capacity to move technology, resources and capital from one part of the world to another can often dramatically affect local technology and local work force opportunities. Their capacity and resources and their ability to use transfer pricing, restrictive business practice, and massive capital inflows across national boundaries can play havoc with local economies. That is the reason that the United States, the European Economic Community, and the United Nations have found it necessary not merely to inquire but to establish permanent monitoring procedures in order to protect local economies and to see that the operation of transnational companies comply with national autonomy and local economic objectives. 
Whilst it is true that transnational companies can stimulate economic growth and introduce new technology and capital it is equally true that they can also- and have done so on many occasions- divest host communities of traditional skills and whole areas of industrial expertise. I refer to the evidence that was given to the United States Senate comittee of inquiry by  Mr George  Meany on behalf of the American trade unions wherein he gave evidence that between 1966 and 1971 American multinational companies exported over 900,000 jobs, which had previously existed in American industry, to the low wage areas of Asia, South Korea, Taiwan and Indonesia. Whilst it is not fashionable these days to talk of the exploitation of cheap Asian labour at 14c an hour, there is no reason to presume that the same principles and attitudes of American-owned multinationals in the United States- I do not say that this applies just to American multinationals; I think the same principle and reasoning applies to multinationals wherever they are- to America's national resources and its work force, will not apply equally to the exploitation of resources, and the use of our work force in Australia. 
I am interested in the comment of the Minister for Special Trade Representations. The point that I am endeavouring to make is that it is important for this Government, as it has been important for the United States Congress and every other country with a Western-based capitalist economy, to monitor what is occurring within the framework of the economy and to understand the role that transnational corporations can play. I am not really interested in the Minister's cheap asides; I am interested in knowing whether the Minister supports that view. Whenever the matter is referred to within this House by the Treasurer or any of the other Ministers, the essential problems and arguments are pushed aside. This Government is playing the role of an economic quisling when it is not prepared to face up to the fact that our economy is increasingly being dominated by large overseas multinational companies. I seek leave to incorporate three tables in  Hansard.  I would be very happy to show them to the Minister for Special Trade Representations. As I am the first  speaker  in this debate, I have not had an opportunity to show them to him. Basically they are straightforward tables. The first table shows foreign control of industries and economic activities in Australia. The second shows foreign control of industrial sectors by percentage turnover of developed countries. This is serious because Australia now is only second to Canada as to the extent to which a nation's economy, industry and finance sectors are controlled by persons whose only responsibilities are to their company structure and their desire to make profits. The third table goes into greater detail as to the estimates of foreign ownership and control of the major sectors of our economy. I seek leave to incorporate those tables in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

<graphic href="116131197911083_17_0.jpg"></graphic>

The point that I want to make is that when I sought information on this matter from the Parliamentary Library, which made use of all its resources and facilities to obtain the information for me, I found that there had been a quite effective monitoring of what was occurring in our own community. Until recently that monitoring was carried out by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. It is a matter of concern to me that all that monitoring and all the publications which were directed towards making information available to this Parliament and the Australian community as to the extent of the increasing economic control of Australia by overseas companies were virtually terminated in the period of 1976-77. The publication of a range of materials by the Australian Bureau of Statistics was brought to a completion and there is no funding for the monitoring  or this  aspect of economic activity in Australia. I regard that as a very serious situation. Honourable members opposite might disagree philosophically as to the role that transnational corporations play and can play not only in the world economy but also in our own economy. We can join issue on that. But we can join issue only if all the material and information are available. 
Australia now would be in the unique position of being one of the few advanced industrial nations which have stopped collecting statistics and stopped monitoring this type of economic activity. We do that at our peril. I conclude my remarks by saying that it is absolutely imperative, if proper debate is to take place in Australian society about the control of our own economy, that all the information be available to those citizens and those parliaments which want to participate in that debate. The failure of the Government to ensure that these processes will continue is a grievous failure indeed. It does not compare with the extent to which these activities have been the subject of the strongest parliamentary scrutiny and survey in nations larger than ours, certainly in the United States of America and European communities. 

 -Mr Speaker, as you yourself pointed out in your ruling, in this matter there seems to be two points at issue which go to the question of the prerogatives of Parliament. There is evidence, which I will not canvass but which has been alluded to, relating to the question of ministerial integrity in the handling of affairs for which Ministers have responsibility. Clearly that is a matter for determination by the Parliament. It is a fine point indeed when the Parliament has to determine that integrity in the course of its responsibilities at the same time as some of the issues which may be involved and which have to be determined by the Parliament are also being canvassed in criminal proceedings. 
The first point I would make is that in respect of committal proceedings- perhaps I have a higher view of magistrates exercising their responsibilities in those matters- my own view would be that anything that was stated in this Parliament would not affect a magistrate making a determination on the basis of the evidence before him, any more than it would affect a justice of the Supreme Court or, indeed, even of a Full Court. You yourself,  Mr Speaker,  adverted to that matter in a previous ruling you gave. I suggest that you could well extend that view of judicial integrity to include a magistrate who is dealing with committal proceedings. I also point out that only last week in this Parliament issues were permitted to be canvassed- I do not know whether you  Sir, were  in the chair- in respect of matters which involve a member of this Parliament and which will be the subject of committal proceedings. On that occasion the view was put that the nature of committal proceedings is really a preliminary inquiry which will determine whether proceedings will subsequently take place in a superior court. 
As there is evidence before this House on the question of ministerial integrity, I believe it is competent for this House- admittedly,  Sir, I  think it would involve some strong rulings from the Chair- to debate those questions of ministerial authority without in any way interfering with the facts which have to be determined by a magistrate sitting in a court and making a judgment on the full range of evidence that will be presented to him. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  is not concerned to canvass here the full range of evidence. I do not think that he is even concerned to canvass a significant part of it. What he is concerned to canvass are questions which are peculiar to the responsibilities and the authority of this Parliament, and that is the right and the duty of Ministers of the Crown to see that the functions of those who work within the framework of their jurisdictions are properly, legally and effectively carried out. It is also incumbent upon them to see that at no stage is the Parliament misled. There is evidence of that before us, and there being evidence of that before us - 
-There is; I am sorry. I do not want to transgress a previous ruling of the  Speaker  - 
That being the reality, we are m a unique situation where the question of ministerial responsibility cannot be determined by this House and presumably cannot be determined in another place.  Mr Speaker,  the very nature of your ruling precludes any questions in respect of it because if the matter is sub judice for the purposes of the debate I suspect it will be sub judice for the purposes of questions without notice. So we are in a difficult area because, as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has pointed out, a large number of cases are yet to be determined. Presumably, if a Minister felt embarrassed by the circumstances in this particular case it would simply be a matter of seeing that cases were delayed or brought on at a particular point in time so that in fact the Parliament would never be able to deal with them. 
In conclusion, I put to you, with great respect,  Mr Speaker,  that we have to keep quite separate the issues which are before us. They are clearly questions of ministerial responsibility. They are not issues that are before the magistrate. The issues which are before the magistrate involve a wide range of issues upon which the magistrate has to make a determination which will affect his consideration of the way in which a person being charged will be dealt with.  Mr Speaker,  may I extend your own example. I believe you have correctly held in the past that a full court of appeal would not be affected by debate. I doubt whether a single justice would be affected by any debate or anything that is said in this House. I equally put to you,  Sir, with  respect, the view that a magistrate sitting in committal proceedings would be no more affected. He is exercising a judicial role in the same way as a judge and I believe that in this situation, having regard to the particular circumstances of the case and having regard to the serious question of ministerial responsibility, you ought to find for the Parliament being able to deal with those issues of ministerial responsibility but being able to deal with them in a way which cannot and should not affect the rights of any person charged before the courts. 
It was suggested to me earlier today that Parliament is the highest court, and that is correct. But the Parliament has established a form of judicial inquiry in relation to purported offences, and that judicial inquiry is through the courts. The Parliament, in the exercise of the sub judice rule, has always been unwilling to set itself up by debate as a parallel to the courts in the prosecution of an offence which is done within the rules of evidence and procedure. 
I must say that, if I understand the Deputy Leader of the Opposition correctly, he and I have a different view. To me, the purpose of the sub judice rule is not solely to protect an accused. The purpose of the sub judice rule is to protect the process of justice. Perhaps I misunderstood the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. But I am not interested to learn whether or not a possible injustice can be to the prosecutor as distinct from the accused. I think it must be the purpose of this Parliament to uphold justice being performed, whatever the outcome of the courts is. 
In relation to the points that have been made concerning the magistrate, my information is that the proceeding in question is a proceeding before a magistrate to determine whether there will be committal proceedings, in which case there will be trial by jury. It is certainly true that the justices of the Supreme Court benches are not fragile flowers as they themselves have said. They are capable of determining matters on the issues before them. But they constantly warn in their reports that there is a danger that juries may be influenced by what happens in the Parliament. That is why there is such stringent application of the rule in relation to criminal proceedings, which would go before a jury. 
There are no other points which I need add. It is not my purpose to give advice but I only make this further comment: I will treat all possible motions on their merits and I will treat all questions on the merits of the question by applying to them the Standing Orders. I do not propose to change my ruling. 
-Yes, MrSpeaker. 
That the question be now put. 

 - Mr Speaker, with great respect, I believe that you have erred in this matter in setting the sub judice ruling far to high having regard to all the circumstances of this case and having regard to the previous rulings, some of which you have addressed the minds of the House to.  Mr Speaker,  I might direct your attention to the statement made by  Sir William  Aston in a major statement on the sub judice rule. You will probably be aware of it but I think it timely to remind the House of it. He stated that the  Speaker  should be guided in his interpretation of a sub judice rule according to the following five points: 
1 ) It is a fundamental right of the House to legislate on any matter- 
Within constitutional power- 
It is the fundamental right and duty of the House to consider and discuss any matter, if it is thought to be in the public interest. 
If it is not inconsistent with fundamental rights and duties, the House should avoid setting itself up as an alternative forum or body of inquiry or permit its proceedings to interfere in the course of justice. 
Apart from particular matters such as criminal cases, courts material, civil cases and matters referred by a legislature to a judicial body, the rule has application to other hearings, inquiries or investigations in which the rights of individuals or a community group or the achievement of justice may be prejudiced. 
It is the obligation of the Chair to hold the balance between the rights and duties ofthe House on the one hand and the rights and interests of the citizen on the other. 
The most recent trend in interpreting the sub judice rule has been to indicate that just because a matter is before a court not every matter concerning the case is therefore sub judice and unable to be brought forward in debate. Equally, it has been argued that in the final analysis the responsibility rests upon the Chair- that is you,  Mr Speaker-  and that in the event that the public interest is involved the public interest may prevail over the sub judice rule.  Mr Speaker.  I direct you also to the view expressed by the Chief Justice of New South Wales in 1937. Dealing with the question of contempt he said: 
It is well settled that a person cannot be prevented by process of contempt from continuing to discuss publicly a matter which may fairly be regarded as one of public interest by reason merely of the fact that the matter in question has become the subject of litigation or that the person whose conduct is being publicly criticised had become a party to litigation, either as a plaintiff or defendant, and whether in relation to the matter which is under discussion or with respect to some other matter. 
Let me extend that analogy.  Mr Speaker,  assume that tomorrow you pick up any one of Australia's leading daily newspapers and read an editorial which expresses concern that there is now clear evidence that officers of the Commonwealth Police Force, who are subject to ministerial control, broke the law. The editorial may state: 'There is clear evidence that a Minister, in an answer in the Senate, indicated that on the advice that she had, certain actions had not taken place and there is now clear evidence that those actions have taken place. There is a question of confidence involved. These are such grave and serious matters and involve matters of such public concern that there ought to be a judicial inquiry.' Assuming that you have read that editorial,  Mr Speaker,  would it be seriously suggested that the editor of that newspaper would be arraigned for contempt of court? Of course it would not 
If one looks at the substance of the motion moved by the  Deputy  Leader ofthe Opposition and reduces it to its simplest forms one sees that he has suggested that there has been a set of circumstances- he was prevented from elaborating upon them- which require a judicial inquiry- nothing more and nothing less. Because of the way the sub judice rule has been seen, not just by the Parliament-you, sir, have indicated the view of Parliament-but by the courts, where the standard is not altogether dissimilar from the standard of contempt, we are getting to an odd situation indeed if we say now that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition cannot advance argument in this Parliament that go to the reason why a judicial inquiry ought to be established, whatever the view of public interest is, because it infringes the sub judice rule. But if the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is transmuted overnight so that he becomes a feature writer or editorial writer for any major newspaper in the country with a circulation of 350,000, he can say exactly those things and canvass those issues and nobody is going to say that there is any contempt of proceedings. Therefore, with respect to you, sir, I say that, if you look at the authorities, you have drawn the line too high on this occasion. With great respect, the issues that are involved in this matter go to the question of ministerial responsibility. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition was concerned to say that there was a set of facts which so offended any right-thinking member of this Parliament that it was not just a matter for censure but for establishing how this occurred; and it ought to be a matter of judicial inquiry. Assuming the House accepted that argument, it would be a matter for the Government to determine the framework in which that inquiry took place. Once any such judicial inquiry got underway it would be protected by the sub judice rule. It is a fine question when we look at the issues which might affect one particular person facing a set of charges. All we have at the moment are committal proceedings. I do not want to reiterate the arguments that I have already addressed of my fear of a magistrate's findings on those facts. But I believe it draws the line too high to say that because one aspect might be affected- it might be a minor aspect in terms of ail the evidence that might exist in the particular case; and I do not know whether it will be affected in all these cases or how relevant it is- which goes to other issues which are matters of great concern to the public and matters of great public interest this Parliament cannot deal with it. 
Admittedly,  Sir, you  must make a judgment on all of these matters on the facts before you. A large number of people will be committed, presumably over a long period. Officers of the law are duty bound to administer and to keep the law. They are subject to ministerial control and direction. That is the issue with which the Parliament has to be concerned. Somebody else has been charged with effectively cheating social welfare benefits and it is suggested that the overwhelming public interest is in ensuring that we deal not with the former matter because it is more important that we concentrate on the latter. It is important further to ensure that proceedings which deal with the judgment of the issues in respect of the latter are not infringed. There is a body of opinion which says that the mere fact that a matter is before a court means that the Chair should determine that public interest shall prevail. I believe that the course followed by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is a responsible one. I believe that you,  Sir, have  erred in setting the standard at a level which is inappropriate and too high having regard to the number of people who are going to be charged, the nature of the charges, and to the fact that at best we are merely dealing with committal proceedings. 
It may be months or years before the matter comes before a jury.  Sir, you  have your own practical experience to guide you on that fact. The fact that a matter may come before a jury at a point six months or nine months from now should not preclude this Parliament from being able to debate a motion which, in essence, says that the issues of public interest here are of such paramount importance that there ought to be a judicial inquiry. For those reasons, I respectfully submit that you ought to reconsider your decision. 
I refer the Treasurer to a statement made by the Minister for Social Security in the Senate this morning that her DirectorGeneral had decided it was not necessary for his Minister to be informed about the possible payment of up to $200,000 to  Mr Chris  Nakis, and that the Treasurer had final responsibility in the matter. Has the Treasurer's advice or approval been sought on this matter at any stage? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 16 October 1979: 
1 ) Has the Minister had any discussions with his counterpart in Queensland regarding the Queensland Government's defiance of the Racial Discrimination Act 1975, as reported in the 4th Annual Report of the Commissioner for Community Relations; if so, when and where did those discussions take place. 
) What was the outcome of the discussions. 
Was any consideration given to the role played by  Mr P.  J. Killoran in the matter which was the subject of a direction to  Mr Killoran  under the Racial Discrimination Act. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 25 October 1979: 
1 ) Further to the Minister 's answer to part ( 3 ) of question No. 4719  (Hansard,  24 October 1979, page 2468) by whom was the undertaking referred to, given, and to which Aboriginal group, representative, or individual was it given. 
What were the terms of the undertaking, and had they been recorded in any document or memorandum; if so, can the member identify the memorandum or document and set out fully the terms of the undertaking contained therein. 
-What this House is dealing with is a crime. It is not just a crime directed against the Labor Party; it is a crime directed against the very fabric of our political structure. What are the demonstrable facts? The first demonstrable fact is that there was a break-in into the offices of the organisation carrying out work for and on behalf of the Labor Party. It is a demonstrable fact that material was taken from a safe in that office and that the material which the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  has relied on in this House was obtained from that safe, because there was no other place where the material was recorded. 
Let us deal with the credibility of this Minister because not the least serious of the aspects of this matter is that the Minister has lied to the Parliament, clearly and deliberately. Let me quote what this Minister said in the Parliament last Tuesday, as recorded at page 3178 of the  Hansard.  You were in the chair at the time,  Mr Speaker.  The Minister described this document as the Combe strategy paper. He did not use the term 'documents'. He did not talk about a number of documents. He described the document as the Combe strategy paper referring to swinging voters. The Minister in the House today has admitted that there was no one document. He has admitted that the document which was circulated to the Press was typed by the Liberal Party. It is a document based upon a stolen document and it is a document that emanated from within the Liberal Party. The Minister knows that it is one document and last Tuesday when he stood in this House and lied to this Parliament he knew that he was using a document which was the fabrication of his own party, and he admitted that today. The best he could say today was that the document was verified. By whom was it verified? Was it verified by some of his ministerial colleagues, one of whom had to be stood down because of his sleazy operations with land developers who were slinging into the slush funds of the Liberal Party? 
Let me remind you of your own ruling last Tuesday,  Mr Speaker. 
I want to remind you of your ruling,  Mr Speaker. 
-What am I to withdraw,  Mr Speaker? 
-I will withdraw, in deference to you,  Mr Speaker,  but I will state this: The Minister says that the document was verified. I want to know who verified it. I am entitled to know, 

 Sir, on your own ruling of last Tuesday when you were prepared to allow this Minister to lie to the House. That is what he did in the presentation of this document. You allowed him to use that document because he alleged that it was relevant to the motivation of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  I now want to look at the motivation of the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs and I want to look at this person whom he says verified this document. Was it one of his ministerial colleagues who was up to his eyes in land development finance with a couple of sleazy land developers who were named in the Victorian inquiry into land scandals? Was it a former Minister who had to stand down because he was manipulating electoral procedures? Was it another former Minister who is currently facing serious charges? The Minister talked about verification. Who verified this document? 
Two days ago the Minister said that it was one document, the Combe document. He said that it was a Labor Party document. That was the Minister's statement when he lied to the Parliament. Today he said that the document was typed in the offices of the Liberal Party. He admitted that it was not one document. He said that it was based on a series of documents. The problem isperhaps he was not to know this; perhaps he did know- that it was based upon a document which was in a safe which was burgled. It is as simple as that. What the Parliament is entitled to know when the Minister says that the document has been verified is whether it was verified by the person who did the breaking and entering. He would be the only person who knew where it came from. Was it verified by  Mr Baudino,  the Liberal Party representative who circulated this material? 
The Minister for Health is entitled to defend another Minister who has been caught in the act of lying but he does his own honour and credibility no good at all. As a lawyer who has acted for criminals in the past he is entitled to try to defend a Minister against his criminal actions in this matter. They are criminal actions. It is very simple: If an employee of this Government receives a stolen document he is a receiver of stolen goods and the Government will prosecute him. The Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs has used a document which he admits was a Liberal Party fabrication. He tried to produce the document and use it in the Parliament knowing at the time he so used it that the document was a Liberal Party fabrication. He knew at the time that it had been produced in the offices of his own party. Yet he walked into the 
Parliament, gave the document a title which he knew as false, and purported to use the document in a debate in a way that was grossly misleading and untrue, having regard to the Minister's own state of knowledge which he admitted to the Parliament today. 
I ask any honourable member to look at the statements made by the Minister in the Parliament last Tuesday. On any honest and objective assessment there can be no doubt that what the Minister was purporting to do was to say: 'Here is a document. It is called the Combe report. ' He even gave it a title. He said: 'It ought to be accepted as evidence in this House of the strategy and the attitudes of the Leader of the Opposition and the Labor Party.' I noted his statements today. He now says that the document that he used in that way last Tuesday was typed by the Liberal Party of Australia. He also said that the document was not collated by the Labor Party into a compendious document. 
What he is saying very seriously today when he is the subject of a censure motion is that a series of separate documents came into the hands of the Liberal Party Federal Organisation who put it together. Obviously, officers of the Liberal Party put it together. Who gave it the title? It had no title when first obtained by the Liberal Party. That was admitted by the Minister today. Who called it the Combe report? It was the officers of the Liberal Party or the Minister who purported to present that document to the Parliament on the basis that it was an original Labor Party document, titled the Combe report. At the time of making that statement the Minister knew that he was lying to the Parliament. 
The Minister is a self-confessed liar. It is as simple as that. It does not come as any surprise to any of us on this side of the House. We have seen the Minister shamelessly use personal correspondence. We have seen him smear and malign people outside the Parliament. His difficulty was that last Tuesday he did not know that the document which was a Liberal Party fabrication contained material which was not even available to the Labor Party. It contained material in a safe which was broken into. The House is entitled to hear from the Minister who verified the document. Did he believe that it was an authentic document? At no stage did the Minister attempt to tell us that. He has lied to the Parliament. He has attempted to deceive the Parliament. He has done so in a way that demeans this institution and the whole of our political process. That is a serious matter. It is not a matter to be treated in some jocular way. 
This Government is so desperate that any rules can now be broken. There are no rules governing political behaviour in this society. There is no element of honour or decency left when a Minister of the Crown can use in the Parliament a document which he knows is a fabricated concoction which has come out of the office of his own Party. He knew that last Tuesday. He has admitted knowledge of that today. He stands condemned. When one looks at the parliamentary record one sees that he tried to foist on the Parliament and people of Australia the view that this was a document that emanated from the headquarters of the Labor Party. Has a more mean, despicable and dishonourable act ever been committed by a Minister of the Parliament? Ministers opposite try to laugh it off and say that it is not a serious matter. After all, it is only a break-in! I suppose that it is all right to break into Labor Party headquarters! The Minister for Health chooses to associate himself with these actions. He is equally to blame. I would have thought that any selfrespecting Minister in any self-respecting government would not condone the introduction into our political life of Nixon-style break-ins. Such a Minister should not condone Ministers who in this House act in a way which would do great credit to Richard Nixon. The Minister for Health is a lawyer. I am sorry, I have just been informed by my colleague that he is not a lawyer. If he looked at last Tuesday's  Hansard he  would know that on any reasonable and logical conclusion - 
He will not be an honourable man if he continues to associate himself with a Minister who has lied to the Parliament, and who is not able to verify a document, portion of which could only be obtained by a criminal act. It is as simple and as clear as that. The House is entitled to expect a better standard of conduct. Whatever the differences that exist in either political philosophy or social belief, if within the Parliament and the Government we cannot establish what is to be regarded as essentially proper and honest political behaviour then our political system is in deep trouble. What the Minister has done in an attempt to smear the Labor Party is to involve himself in actions which are throughly dishonourable and criminal and which demean him and his government. The Minister does not escape today simply by repeating the false and specious allegations and relying upon the numbers of the Government to carry him through. If the Government is prepared to use its numbers on this occasion, as undoubtedly it will, it is demeaning this institution and the whole concept of political honesty and fair play. It is doing untold damage to our political structure. The Minister has lied to the Parliament and to the people of Australia. He deserves the strongest censure of this House. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 7 November 1979: 
Has his attention been drawn to allegations of a Queensland grazier,  Mr Stan  Kelly, that representatives of the Iwasaki Sangyo Co. endeavoured to acquire freehold land adjacent to the Iwasaki franchise. 
Does the Iwasaki Sangyo Co. need Federal Government approval to negotiate more land deals and specifically for any expansion north of the existing franchise. 
Has Iwasaki Sangyo sought or been granted Federal Government permission to acquire more land; if not, is he concerned about reports that the company has been negotiating for more land, and what action does he propose to take to deal with this situation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 7 November 1979: 
1 ) Further to his answer to question No. 4915  (Hansard,  6 November 1979, page 2671), what meetings have taken place during the period 1 November 1978 to 6 November 1979, with representatives of the States, exploring the differences of interpretation of the existing arrangements in relation to Aboriginal affairs. 
2 ) What was the date of each meeting and its location. 
What Ministers or officers were present to represent the ( a ) Commonwealth and ( b ) relevant States. 
What aspects of existing arrangements were the subject matter of discussion at each meeting. 
Were any issues the subject of agreement; if so, what are the details. 
What outstanding matters continue to be the subject matter of further negotiations, and with which States. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 1 1 September 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the economic disadvantages experienced by many ex-servicemen whose total income is derived from funds paid under the Defence Force Retirement Benefits Scheme. 
Was this matter the subject of an inquiry by the Joint Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation (the Jess Committee) and later by the Bonnett Inquiry whose report dated 10 February 1978 was referred to him in March 1978. 
What were the basic recommendations of the Bonnett Report. 
Will he make this report available to Members of the Parliament. 
What action does he propose to take in respect of the recommendations of the Bonnett Inquiry. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 22 November 1979: 
1 ) Can the Minister state what Federal and State government environmental impact assessments have been or will be carried out on proposed new aluminium smelters in the Hunter Valley, NSW. 
Have any assessments examined the likely impact of fluoride emissions on grapes grown in the area for the Hunter Valley wine industry. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
1 ) Did he, on 25 May 1978, indicate that within 6 months of the tabling of a committee report, the responsible Minister will make a statement in the Parliament outlining the action the Government proposes to take in relation to the recommendations contained in the report. 
Has his attention been drawn to the fact that a Senate Standing Committee report on Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders on Queensland Reserves was tabled in November 1978 and recommended that the Commonwealth Parliament legislate to ensure that Aboriginal and Torres Strait 
Islanders in Queensland be free to manage and control their affairs and comment on the inadequacy of existing Queensland State legislation. 
What is the reason for him failing to ensure that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs makes a statement to Parliament on this report and when will a statement be made. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
1  )  Further to his recent statement that the Government had approved a number of joint fishing ventures involving interests from Japan, South Korea, the United States of America and Poland, what were the ventures approved, specifying in each case, (a) the companies, firms, or individuals involved in the agreement (b) the approximate sea area and its location in respect of the Australian coastline covered by each particular agreement, (c) the fish species, proposed to be sought, under each agreement, (d) the number of ships, their size and the number of crew employed or proposed to be employed, on each ship, involved or proposed to be involved in fishing or the servicing of a fishing fleet, (e) the estimated potential size of the fishing catch and its approximate value and  (0  whether any fish caught under an agreement would be available for processing or for being sold either fresh or frozen in Australia. 
2 ) If processing or sale is to take place in Australia what is the location of the plant involved m the processing or the port at which the fish will be purchased or sold, either fresh or frozen. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 10 October 1979: 
1 ) Did the High Commissioner in Singapore, by confidential cable to his Department, criticise the Western Mining Corporation for failure to accept responsibility for radioactive waste being stored at Singapore Steel Works. 
Have difficulties arisen in Australia's relationship with Singapore following disclosure of this matter; if so, what are the details. 
Has the Government intervened to require the Western Mining Corporation to retrieve this waste material; if so, how has it intervened and what arrangements have been made; if not, what future action is proposed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 16 October 1979: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the references to the (a) importance of the role of schools in community education for improved community relations and ( b) limited resources currently available for this purpose, which are contained in the 4th Annual Report of the Commissioner for Community Relations. 
If so, has the Minister allocated an increase in any funds under his control to combat the reported activities of racist groups (such as the Immigration Control Association) in schools; if not, will the Minister do so. 
3 ) What is the current status and usage of the teaching kit on Aboriginal Society which was developed by the Curriculum Development Centre. 
Will the Minister give consideration to increasing the use and distribution of this kit, as a matter of urgency. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 16 October 1979: 
Has his attention been drawn to the statement attributed to  Mr Richard  Alston, on page 14 of the 4th Annual Report of the Commissioner for Community Relations, which states in part that the Government has undermined its international obligations pursuant to its ratification of the International Convention on Racial Discrimination. 
If so, is he able to say whether this is the same  Mr Richard  Alston who is  President  of the Victorian Branch of the Liberal Party and  President  of the United Nations Association of Australia. 
What action does he or his Department intend to take to ensure that Australia meets its international obligations. 
Has he investigated the complaints noted by the Commissioner for Community Relations on page 16 of his 4th 
Annual Report, concerning racist publications from the USA being sent through the mail. 
If so, what representations have been made to the US Government regarding its control of this material at its source. 
What has been the response of the UN Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination to the submission it received from the Foundation for Aboriginal and Island Research Action, in which it was alleged that the Queensland Government was discriminatory in its legislation and administrative practices. 
Has a Legal Defence Fund to support Australian Aboriginal liberation struggles been established by the International Conference for the Eradication of Racism and Racial Discrimination. 
If so, has Australia made a contribution to this fund; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 7 November 1979: 
Has his attention been drawn to comments of the Australian Mining Industry Council that due to a sharp decline in world demand for uranium and the discovery of major uranium reserves abroad, the estimates of the volume and price of uranium sales contained in the Fox Report are a serious over-estimation of the current probabilities; if so, and in view of the major uncertainties in the uranium market and the unresolved questions concerning the impact of uranium mining on the Australian economy, will he formulate a paper on the economic aspects of uranium mining for debate by the House. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 7 November 1979: 
1 ) Has Chrysler, Australian Motor Industries and Nissan failed to meet their obligations under the 85 per cent local content rule; if so, has this failure caused local component manufacturers lost business worth an estimated $25m and caused approximately 1,600 job losses in manufacturer and supplier industries. 
Is it a fact that any or all of these companies were liable to fines for previous failures to meet these rules. 
What fines have been imposed for past failures. 
What is the maximum and minimum amounts which these companies can be fined for current failures. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 22 November 1979: 
Are there any proposals to dispose of waste salt from current or proposed power stations in the Newcastle area, New South Wales (which use Lake Macquarie as a source of cooling water) in disused mine shafts in the Hunter Valley; if so, can the Minister state whether any Federal or New South Wales environmental impact assessment of these proposals has been carried out or is planned. 
If assessments are in train, have they been directed to examine the effects of salt dumping on the water supply in the Hunter Valley and, in particular, any possible adverse effects on the wine industry and other agricultural industry in the area. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 22 November 1979: 
Further to the Minister's answer to question No. 4915  (Hansard,  6 November 1979, page 2671 ) (a) how many bilateral discussions have taken place to date, (b) where did those discussions take place and what was the duration of each meeting, (c) what are the names, designations and salaries of all Commonwealth officers who have been engaged in these discussions, (d) have the officers of the States been of equivalent status to the Commonwealth officers and (e) have any of the Commonwealth officers involved in these discussions come from Commonwealth Departments other than the Department of Aboriginal Affairs; if so, which Departments. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 22 November 1979: 
1 ) What financial assistance has been provided by the Commonwealth to the Aboriginal people of the Framlingham Reserve in the Western District of Victoria during each of the years 1970-71 to 1978-79 inclusive. 
What is the estimated Commonwealth funding for Framlingham Reserve for 1979-80. 
Under what classifications and for what projects has Federal funding been granted. 
What feasibility studies have been conducted by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs into the viability of projects which will guarantee financial independence and selfdetermination for the Aboriginal people of the Framlingham Reserve. 
Were any studies undertaken in conjunction with persons living on the reserve. 
