In making this maiden speech during the AddressinReply debate my thoughts are drawn to those who, through the history of this great institution, have stood where I now stand. My good friend Harry Bandidt, who graced this chamber, and many others conceivably would have felt, to some extent, what I now feel: A blend of pride and awe, of satisfaction and apprehension, and a fervent hope to prove worthy and a fear that one might not do so. In this spirit I wish to place on record my complete acceptance of the responsibility which I have assumed. I express my appreciation to the electors of Wide Bay for the confidence which they have placed in me.  Mr Speaker,  I offer you my congratulations on your appointment and I congratulate other honourable members who are in this House for the first time. In the course of my address I shall make observations, the acceptability of which will depend to a considerable extent on the credibility of their author. For this reason alone I shall make a brief excursion into my personal history. In this respect I say that I have never ceased to be grateful that I came into this world in time to experience as a mere child the final years of the infamous depression of the Thirties. My recollection of the human tragedy of those times has, I like to think, endowed me with an empathy for my fellows and an understanding and tolerance that perhaps otherwise would have been denied me. 
Having started work at the age of 13 and having made such personal advancement as is evidenced by my presence here, I feel that I can with all charity say to those worthy shearers in the House and to others with similarly colourful backgrounds that experience of hardship and deprivation from which might arise a compassion and concern for the underdog is not the monopoly of any particular party. Further, I am of the opinion that more than a few of our social and economic problems can be traced to a society in which is to be found an increasingly influential generation which had the good fortune to be born into a world of comparative plenty. Over 25 years the spectres of fear, hunger and poverty have remained strangers to them, so much so that it is understandable that they have adopted an attitude that if you cannot get it for nothing, at least you can get it wholesale. In an aside I point to the abuse of the sickie as a testimony to our society's culpability. From such a cynical philosophy has emerged a divided society with a continuing confrontation between the great metropolitan population and the interests of the provincial and rural areas. The city dweller within his concrete cocoon, insulated from rural realities, indifferent to the problems of the primary producer in coping with savagely escalating costs on trailing incomes, produces in the latter a resentment of the superior standard of living which is to be seen elsewhere. On the other hand, all too many city people instinctively regard primary producers as 'ruddy squatters' or 'land barons'. 
Believe me,  Mr Speaker,  even though it must be allowed that there are primary producers who, from time to time, temporarily prosper as fortune smiles upon them, there are countless farmers on modest properties who could well be described as the peasantry of the seventies. These farmers and their families have applied themselves diligently to their task, but they find the crush of economic adversity wearing them down. This assessment does not take cognisance of the current experience of graziers and farmers who face bankruptcy because of the collapse of the beef market. Anticipating a cry of 'Why stay on the land if it does not pay?', let me touch on the tragedy of the exodus from the country to the cities. I ask honourable members to consider the matter. There are diminishing rural populations arising from the amalgamation of properties to maintain viability. There are towns where young people are conspicuous by their absence. There are empty shops where owners have simply closed the doors and walked away. In many cases these are pleasant townships, often serviced with water and sewerage. They are places where one can physically and metaphorically breathe pure air, yet they are doomed to die because of the imbalance of social and economic entitlements, doomed in a country whose urgent need is to decentralise and populate its empty spaces, doomed in a country which ignores the fact that the average age of its farmers is 57, doomed in a country which, seemingly, is insensitive to the fact that there is only 3 weeks reserves of food on earth. 
This nation can no longer luxuriate in indifference to the need properly to maintain and develop its primary industries. All the green papers in the world will be of little con- sequence if there is not a determination on the part of governments to adopt a policy that recognises the interdependence of all sections of Australian society. There must be recognition of the right of all Australians to a fair share of our national wealth. I ask honourable members to take note that I say 'a fair share' and not 'an equal share' as is often implicit in statements made by Labor Government spokesmen. There is a vast difference between the two. Of course, 'fair share' relates to a just entitlement for work or services performed, with due allowance for risk and the initiative displayed. This is the very basis of our free enterprise philosophy. On the other hand, 'equal share' becomes mixed up with all  sorts  of philosophies - many of a socialistic nature - which ignore the need of man for an incentive to give of his best. Equal shares can only work with equal effort. This of course is an impossible proposition. Our society must assume responsibility for the genuinely distressed, the halt and the maimed. But there is an increasing resentment on the part of those shouldering their social responsibilities of the extravagant behaviour of a government seemingly dedicated to penalising the industrious for the benefit of the indolent. 
No greater tragedy could befall this country than to rob its people of personal ambition, initiative and the resultant rewards of material gain and personal satisfaction. We must resist the processes that tend to regiment our life styles. We must not become a dull, flat, grey society leaving all responsibility to a Big Brother centralist government. Already an air of disillusionment assails those who, but a few short years ago, were confident in their own sense of security. The realisation that soaring interest rates threatened to deny home buyers the right to own their homes has induced a trauma that makes them highly vulnerable to the injury that must inevitably flow from the Government's current economic and social policies. The people of the electorate of Wide Bay have always made an outstanding contribution to the wealth and advancement of the nation. There is scarcely a facet of human activity and industry that cannot be found within its boundaries. From the magnificent sugar fields of the coastal plains, through the cattle and farming properties of the South Burnett to the famous peanut country in the west, one can see ample evidence of the initiative and industry of its people. 
It is a gross injustice that their lifetimes of dedication and effort should now be negated by the incredible discrimination directed towards them by the Labor Government. The rapid escalation in costs over and above those in the major cities by way of increased freight rates, telephone and postal charges and exorbitant petrol price differentials, acts as an effective deterrent to people remaining in the country. Add to this the withdrawal of taxation concessions and the removal of consumer subsidies and we have a situation in which the conviction that the Labor Government has written off the greater part of the country must strengthen. The people of Wide Bay look to the Government to take steps to afford them relief from such savage impositions. 
To be fair, I must acknowledge the Government's pre-election undertaking to make available $4.4m for the offsetting of the escalated cost of phase 1 of the Monduran-Kolan irrigation scheme in the Bundaberg district. We look to the Government to consider favourably financial assistance for the implementation of phase 2 of that scheme, when released from economic appraisal, to prevent catastrophic losses from the recurrence of prolonged drought periods. The progress of the city of Bundaberg itself is impeded by the inadequacy of its current water supply, and further significant development of its industrial and urban sections is totally dependent on the implementation of the Monduran-Kolan scheme. 
The Maryborough district offers a splendid opportunity for positive Government action for the establishment of a growth centre. This district is currently suffering the impact of the closure of the Maryborough shipyards which displaced in excess of 300 workers. Urgent representations to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  have not as yet produced any indication of the Government's intentions to implement its pre-election promise for the construction of a shipyard and engineering complex at Maryborough. The unemployment outlook is further worsened by the Australian Conservation Foundation which has indicated through its Director,  Dr Moseley,  a determination to have Fraser Island declared a national park. This would have the effect of rendering the timber industry at Maryborough nonviable, and a further 700 to 800 jobs of an otherwise permanent nature would be in jeopardy. Let me offer a few interesting facts on timber and the environment. Because of their remoteness from this area honourable members may be unaware of the impact of a timber milling industry in an otherwise natural environment. Fraser Island has been milled for timber for a period in excess of 100 years. It has been milled for the crop, not the capital - so much so that today one can fly over the island and find little evidence to establish that white man is even there. I offer these interesting facts so that honourable members may be better situated to form a judgment. 
Timber, of course, can be perpetuated and is thus infinite, compared with its principal competitors, of steel and aluminium, whose resources are finite. As an example, by the year's end, the local industry's use of logs coming from the State's plantations will be very close to 100 per cent of the wood. The trees will be completely used from 6 inches from ground level to 3 inches top diameter, and that portion of the tree above 3 inches, being bio-degradable, will return to humus in the soil. In log form, from 3 inches top diameter to 6 inches diameter will be used for chips for particle board. The bark will be removed from the stem and find its way to market as a soil conditioner and landscaping medium. The sawdust will be used for fuel to replace imported furnace oil, offcuts will be used as feed stock for particle board, while the sawn timber will find its market in a variety of products. 
Compare therefore the damage to the environment by the use of timber as a building material with the use of, -say steel or aluminium. Both of the latter require to be quarried from a finite resource. The disturbance to the environment by any quarrying activity is self-evident. Both have to use prodigious qualities of fossil fuel, coal and the like - another quarrying operation from a finite resource - to convert the ironstone or bauxite into steel or alumina. Recent American investigation into disturbance of the environment came up with these figures: concrete products, 24 to 48 per cent; steel, 9 per cent; aluminium, 28 per cent; timber, 2 per cent. Anybody said to be concerned with the environment should be 100 per cent behind the timber industry in its campaign to become self-sufficient in raw material. 
The conservationists, in addition, have enlisted the aid of the State executive of the Transport Workers Union to threaten black bans on the establishment of a dry mill at Maryborough for the processing of mineral sands from Fraser Island. All of these actions by the conservationists have been taken with a disregard for the immediate welfare of 
Maryborough and over the strongest protests of its people. Indeed, at a protest meeting at Maryborough the  Chairman  of the Maryborough Branch of the Transport Workers Union was moved to acquaint the meeting of the fact that the Transport Workers Union State Executive decision to apply a black ban had been made without reference to the Maryborough Branch and further that the Maryborough Branch was absolutely opposed to the introduction of such a ban. He is to be congratulated for his candour and strength of conviction. 
This evidence of excess zeal on the part of the academic orientated conservationists demonstrates again a lack of real appreciation of the basics of survival. The need to get on with the job of producing man's requirements is a continuing one. That he should exercise thought and responsibility towards the environment in the process goes without saying, but in the final analysis man must eat and be sheltered. Too many persons, chiefly of academic background and blinded by their own erudition, display small sympathy for those engaged in the more modest pursuit of making homes, establishing careers and maintaining a life style based on secure employment and stability within their community. The business people of Wide Bay recognise the value of a viable primary industry and see their futures depending on such a condition. In the meantime they look to the Government to bring about stability in the economy. They join in the protest against withdrawal of fertiliser subsidies, knowing full well the continuing critical requirements of the Wallum country for such fertilisers. To have this commodity priced out of reach of primary producers must have a serious effect on the viability of many properties. Business men know full well the devastating effect on the economy of a rural decline. 
I say in conclusion that since the beginning of time the men of the country have dealt in realities. They recognise the need from time to time for governments of all colours to implement measures which may not immediately be popular, and they will accept such measures when it can be demonstrated that they have been taken with such an attitude as to convince them that the measures are taken for the benefit of the country and not as discriminatory acts. Certain things that are done seemingly with spleen cannot be accepted. We in the country and all those people in non-rural activities in provincial cities look forward to going together with all Australians into a future for all Australians. 
Is the Minister for Northern Development aware that vital work on the Monduran-Kolan irrigation scheme has virtually ceased? Does he acknowledge the Government's obligation under its pre-election promise to provide. $4.4m for the offsetting of escalated costs of the Monduran-Kolan irrigation scheme? Is he aware of the urgent need for such finance to maintain continuity of work on the project, particularly in respect of the completion of the channel from the dam to the River Burnett? Having in mind the critical role that the Monduran-Kolan scheme plays in drought mitigation and the fact that the area to be serviced by this scheme is currently experiencing very dry conditions, will the Minister indicate when the promised money will become available? 
I bring to the attention of the House once again the matter of the threatened removal of the superphosphate bounty at the end of the year. I do so because I am reluctant to accept that honourable members on the Government benches are determined to reduce vast areas of productive land in Australia to waste. To excite their imagination on this matter I introduce, as an independent comment, a short quote from the editorial column of the 'Maryborough Chronicle' wherein the editor simply states: 
We can tell a story about a Burrum Shire beef producer who put 40 yearlings on to 4,000 acres  of  wallum country and inside 12 months has lost 18 from poverty. That happened 5 years ago. Today that same country is part of a developed area in the Burrum Shire where cattle to the value of SI. 25m flourish at stocking rates approaching a yearling to the acre. 
The editor is very independent, as I can assure honourable members, and he also states: 
Now any Federal Government that cannot see that such development - chiefly attributable to super - is not well and truly in the national interest must be a government in blinkers. 
I do not seriously suggest that honourable members opposite want to lay the country waste but I have a definite feeling that they are acquiring an armour of indifference to some of the problems which, simply by their repetition, find a lack of response and therefore of responsibility. The wallum country referred to is an extensive band of country on the eastern seaboard. From the stocking figures previously mentioned honourable members will realise that it was fairly worthless country. It is described in general terms as bandicoot country. It offered a challenge. There always have been challenges in this country of ours, and there have always been people to respond to a challenge. The people came out to develop this land and to pick up the quite substantial challenge of bringing it into production. This has been done. Because the land was comparatively worthless in the first place it did not appeal to the regular day-by-day primary producer, but it did have appeal to large-scale developers. It was not coincidental that some fairly substantial taxation benefits were to be derived from their participation in this scheme. In due time this attracted the attention of the Government. It was so displeased that these developers appeared to be escaping the taxation net that it brought out a sledgehammer to crack a walnut. To save a calculated $S6m in taxation revenue the Government is now embarking on a course of action which could result in the loss of $100m a year in this country's primary production. In the process of cracking the walnut with a sledgehammer the Government is sending many ordinary, longstanding primary producers to the wall. 
In terms of the national estate and the national interest, this superphosphate bounty which is to be withdrawn, compounding the mischief occasioned by a recent market price increase, will reflect in the price of meat over the counter. This is what must be realised. I hope it will be of interest and concern to the Government to realise and to understand that the effect of the escalation in prices in the last 3 months has brought the standing price - this is prior to the recent market increase in the price of superphosphate - from a fertiliser component of 5.2c per lb carcass weight to 8.61c per lb. When the bounty is removed in December that same meat will have 10.81c per lb. The escalation in the cost of superphosphate has thus doubled its cost in meat. How much of this can be tolerated simply to save some taxation revenue which distresses the philosophy of the Government? In addition the Forestry Department engaged in substantial plantings of timber in the area. It applies an estimated 5 cwt of superphosphate to the acre. This project also must be seriously impeded. Some 35 per cent of the annual maintenance charge on these 
Wallum properties is involved in fertiliser, and this calculation is based on Brisbane bulk prices, free of freight. The freight charge amounts to another $10 a ton. 
Can the country afford this? The Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  suggested that he would consider the retention of 30 tons of superphosphate bounty to any primary producer. Honourable members will appreciate that 30 tons will service 200 acres, maintain 66 breeders. Quite clearly everyone must realise that this is not a viable proposition. There is not a living in it for an owneroperator who has that turn-off of cattle. The by-product of all of this is that the people who have contributed so much to develop these properties and to establish this very worthwhile Australian asset are now becoming unemployed. Out of gainful employment because, as this Wallum development project winds up, their services are no longer required. These people are Australians trained in Australia, particularly attuned to Australian conditions. They are men who have  a  big job to do in the future. The tragedy of it is that now they are leaving this country to go to other parts of the world where their services are sought and appreciated. Ironically the bounty coming from their efforts will mitigate against market prospects and opportunities for the Australian primary producer. 
Thirty tons, at the rate of 3 cwt to the acre, will service 200 acres. I seriously suggest to honourable members that the time has come to put their philosophy aside and realise that, as I have said once before in this House, man must eat. While it is possible for some of us to get along with empty heads, there are very few of us who can get along for an extensive period with empty bellies. 
I address my question to the Minister for Social Security. Is the Minister aware of the threat to the well-being of pensioner inmates of nursing homes in Queensland arising from the recent substantial increases in nursing staff salaries and the resultant impact on nursing home economic viability? Will he explain why the Government discriminates in Commonwealth contributions to Queensland nursing homes on the score that Queensland nursing homes are purportedly of an inferior standard to those in other States, notwithstanding rebuttal of these assertions by competent persons? Finally, will he adjust the rate of payment to Queensland nursing homes to ensure that there will be no hardship to patients, no loss of employment by nursing and general staff, nor total breakdown in the structure of the nursing home facilities and establishments? 
-The Nitrogenous Fertilisers Subsidy Bill seeks to extend the Nitrogenous Fertilisers Subsidy Act for a period of 12 months. This move is welcomed by those in the industry who are dependent on the continuance of this subsidy. We have heard excellent presentations by my colleagues, the honourable members for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  and Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh).  In the interests of accelerating consideration of the business before the House I shall not retrace or explore further the propositions put forward by those honourable members. 
I address myself to the aspect to which the honourable member for New England alluded, namely, the grave disquiet that has arisen regarding the Government's fundamental attitude towards the whole question of price support or subsidies. It was mentioned that there is a popular opinion that the subsidy may have been extended to preserve or enhance the electoral prospects of the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson).  In the light of the Government 's program for the removal of the phosphate bounty, it must be concluded that there is an innate antipathy on the part of Government members towards price support. Indeed, the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick)  instinctively used the term 'concession'. The tragedy of the whole matter is that price support should be regarded as a concession. In actual fact, it is a legitimate fiscal device to support an industry to the ultimate benefit of the community at large. This, of course, produces a bounty for all. 
One does not need a great deal of imagination to appreciate the benefits that flow to this country from an industry which has a net return well in excess of $300m. The fact that the industry is sustained in good shape, in buoyant conditions, under increasing costs resulting from an inflationary effect, and still keeps its head above water is a tribute to the skill, efficiency and determination that all those within the industry display. But they are not immune to the factors that beset them, and this price subsidy is something that plays a very important part in their continuing economic viability. We have seen within the industry huge increases in costs. One simple illustration is the case of mill hands. Their wages have increased by 99 per cent in 6 years, and the industry, of course, is left to contain this particular cost. 
The philosophical confrontation between the Government and people in industry engaged in keeping this country in good shape must be set aside. Members of the Government must accept our inter-dependence in these matters. They must realise that in their great urge to purge from our society all imaginary evils they would have embarked on a process of sterilising the country rather than purifying it. In such a sterile environment it is questionable whether we can maintain life as we know it. We are looking for a continuance of the support which has been provided in the past. We have misgivings as to its ultimate fate within the framework of the Industries Assistance Commission. That particular Commission increasingly is coming under great pressure. The volume of its business grows every day. One can be excused for imagining that the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy is subject to threats, one of which is to the fundamental competence of the Commission to attend to its task in the spirit of the operation and the other of which is in relation to whether or not it is in itself a device for the purpose of selling the industries down the river. Time alone will reveal the intention of the Government and its various organisational satellites. In terms of its immediate short term benefits, I have pleasure in supporting the Bill. 
-I am not opposed to the States Grants (Beef Cattle Roads) Bill and to facilitate its passage through the House I shall restrict my remarks to a few observations on the beef cattle roads. In that respect I was very gratified to hear the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  declare in his second reading speech that the Government's attitude to the matter of grants for beef cattle roads is a positive and constructive one. Although this Bill in itself is only for the purpose of extending the period of application of the scheme it is assuring to learn that the Government recognises the great importance of the beef cattle industry to export earnings and to domestic strengthening of Australia's economy. The provision of $39.5m to Queensland by Australian Governments over a period from 1967 to 1974 highlights the importance of the project. The beef cattle roads scheme introduced into an area of vast distances gave a high mobility and flexibility. 
The roads could well be described as the arteries of the cattle industry. If we accept the proposition that the life blood of the beef industry pulses through these arteries, should not the Government, with its self-declared positive and constructive attitude towards the industry immediately address itself to the treating of the acute anaemia induced by the collapse of the beef market? I would suggest that as a logical continuation of the beef roads exercise the Government should give very urgent thought to the provision of financial assistance to those producers who are seriously threatened by the industry failure. Of course many of them have been unbelievably handicapped by the record floods experienced earlier in the year. This country of ours in the future will need the beef production in the areas served by the beef roads. Now is the time for the Government to act in the interests of the nation as a whole. 
It further has a great responsibility, as I mentioned before, to meet in prospect the demand of a world in which two-thirds of the population is currently denied normal subsistence levels or in actual fact is poverty-stricken and starving. I am informed that in the next 3 weeks the population of this world will increase by 4 million. It seems monstrous that we should not be continually mindful of our responsibilities, as a food storehouse of the world, to maintain our capability. In this respect the beef cattle roads keep us quite adequately poised to accelerate our actions in this direction when the need arises. They serve an area of Australia where the cattle in the main are produced under range grazing conditions. This brings in another rather important consideration. In this world in meeting the nutritional requirements of its population we find to a considerable extent the misuse or the inefficient use of grains and certain other foods which are processed through cattle to produce beef, whereas the benefit from this food could be greatly increased by directing it to direct human nourishment. But in these areas of Australia beef is produced, in the main, under range conditions. Therefore, this frees grain protein for more beneficial application. 
The roads give us mobility and flexibility, which must be a decided advantage. Should foot and mouth disease, a continuing threat to Australia, strike the industry the roads would give us mobility to control and isolate affected areas. The roads have an incidental defence benefit which is not inconsiderable. Honourable members would be well aware of the handicaps under which we have laboured in directing our defence forces to our most exposed areas, which coincidentally seem to be those least populated and least normally maintained. The question of agistment in drought conditions needs no amplification. In all respects the beef roads scheme has been an outstanding example of cooperation between the Federal governments of the day and the State governments. The end result can only be one of outstanding benefit to all concerned so long as we maintain a continuing sense of responsibility towards the entire project. I support the Bill. 
I find that circumstances dictate that I should address myself to the debate on the estimates for the Department of Transport. No doubt,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  as a new member I could be excused for inquiring as to what my predecessor may have said in similar circumstances on the previous Budget. On making such inquiry I learned that my predecessor, worthy gentleman that he is, possessed qualities not previously realised. I learned that he had the powers of prophesy. I quote to the Committee his remarks in that previous debate. He said: 
I believe that the Minister - 
He was referring to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  has placed the ship building industry in a position where it knows where it is going. He has given some comfort of continuity of employment to those people who have given a lifetime to the industry, particularly in decentralised areas such as Maryborough. 
The Maryborough shipyard is closed. The silence of the yard mocks the words of the Minister and the aspirations of those who worked there. I put it to the Committee that my predecessor knew exactly where the shipyard was going. 
Does his prophesy extend to the area of local government? Notwithstanding the blandishments of a plausible argument advanced by the Minister that local authorities would be better off than ever before, local authorities now find after the euphoria of special Commonwealth grants has passed and the honeymoon is over that they are in a situation of dire stress. Local authorities which looked for better from this Government which promised better things now find themselves gripped by the disaster of increasing unemployment. The funds which they could reasonably have expected to receive have dried up and . the funds allocated for rural local roads which most vitally concern local authorities because they may be described as the lifeblood of local authorities have been slashed from 31 per cent to 14 per cent of total grants. Allocations for rural arterial roads have similarly been reduced from 16 per cent to 10 per cent. Was my predecessor prophetic indeed? Do the local authorities know where they are going? Quite clearly their fate is determined in the gentle ministrations of the Minister for Transport. 
He has moved into the area of general aviation and aviation as a means of regular public transport. He has perhaps with some reasonable justification amalgamated the Department of 
Civil Aviation into the overall transport area. Some argument may be advanced for this action. But he has demonstrated in the process an antipathy- one almost could be excused for saying approaching psychopathic distaste- for all men who have the temerity to leave Mother Earth. He suggests that all these activities can be reduced to the mundane and that all the magic and the challenge that have made Australia one of the premier aviation nations of this earth, that have produced an international flagline with a record of 28 years service without a fatality, that have put in the annals of aviation history the names of some of Australia's famous men can now be forgotten. This industry has been established on the free initiative and ability of men seizing the challenge to rise from Mother Earth and produce an industry of whose record Australia can be proud. 
The Minister seems determined, by increasing air navigation charges, by endeavouring to have local government authorities assume responsibility for airport facilities and by shedding responsibility on the part of the Federal Government as far as may be done, to rob this premier industry of Australia of some of the status which it has rightly enjoyed. The officers of the Department of CiVil Aviation who have by application and diligence attained a standard of efficiency second to none find themselves frustrated and confused as to the future of their Department. Those who are involved in the practicalities of running the aviation industry likewise find themselves confused as to the future of their industry. It would appear that, if the Minister has his way, all the services that meet the travelling requirements of this vast nation shall one by one fall by the wayside. A total refusal to accept the fact that some of the more remote areas of this nation have an entitlement to some special consideration, that they cannot be dismissed as being of little consequence and that we can simply assess their commitments and their charges on the basis of urban rural transport is something with which the Minister seems to be completely obsessed. 
I find that the Minister in his obsession is completely engaged with the challenge of meeting the mechanics of transportation. Matters of road safety seem to be a continuing exercise in futility We seem continually to provide excuses for the wayward motorist. The number of traffic fatalities escalates year by year. Man in his obdurate mentality believes that he can rationalise these things. He embarks on grandiose plans to educate the driver, completely oblivious to the fact that the secret of the solution to the problem lies within man himself. You cannot change the attitude of a man who believes that traffic restrictions and safety devices apply only to the other driver and never to himself. This is a basic facet of human nature that seems to be ignored. We incur great expense and considerable involvement in trying to reduce road fatalities, when in truth the matter lies with the individual. While we humbug with penalties for drunken driving and while we humbug with penalties for stepping outside the law in respect of traffic safety requirements we only delay the solution to the problem and see so many people so tragically involved in the grim statistics of traffic fatalities. 
These traffic fatalities are not vague, shadowy figures that are kept in reserve to build up traffic fatality statistics. Traffic fatality statistics are honourable members' families and mine. They are the innocent, broken bodies of our wives and children. While we stand aside and allow these great excesses and abuses of our social and moral code to be permitted we seek no relief whatsoever in this grim carnage. I say to the Minister that the time has fast arrived when we have to do some fundamental thinking. We cannot concern ourselves entirely with the stark economics of whether a proposition balances the balance sheet. This country of ours, vast as it is and so demanding in its peculiar and special requirements, requires a more extensive and more expansive approach to our particular problems. I earnestly urge the Minister to exercise a little more sympathy in his approach to these particular problems of decentralisation so that the people who have played a very substantial part in making this country as great as it is may benefit from some of the facilities to which our urban brothers have greater access. 
The record of Maryborough and our shipyards I trust will prevail upon the Minister to address himself to our particular problems with a little more sympathy and effectiveness than has been demonstrated in the past. We stand ready and eager to forgive him his remissness in this problem if he can show that his concern is a real and vital thing and it will have the effect of bringing some bounty to this area which is so sadly distressed. 
-We are speaking to 3 Bills which are before the House and which, in simple terms, require the consideration of moneys being made available for the purchase of certain aircraft for our domestic and overseas airlines. The honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  in addressing himself to these matters was reminded that he must confine himself to the terms of the Bills within very rigid limits. That necessarily rather restricts my debate and requires me to depart from my prepared address. But I feel that a few random thoughts might be pertinent to the matter. I should like to say initially that whilst it is possible to have aircraft without an aviation industry, we certainly cannot have an aviation industry without aircraft. While this may seem a trite thing to say, the truth of the matter is that the buying of aircraft is possibly the simplest part of the whole operation, assuming that finance is forthcoming. Having secured the aircraft, we are terribly dependent upon those concerned to see that the aircraft utilisation is effective and that all the ancillary services are maintained at full operational level. 
In this respect we find quite often that there is a tendency m the purchase of new modern aircraft to endeavour to keep up with the Joneses. When the aircraft arrive in Australia we find ourselves under considerable threat in respect of the maintenance of flight service facilities and fire fighting facilities, so we may in truth be going down with the Joneses. We have had ample evidence in discussions of matters relating to the aviation industry of the considerable threat posed to the security and well-being of aviation passengers in the truncation of standing safety facilities which have been a feature of our industry for very many years. It is to be hoped that with these new modern aircraft, and particularly with the advent of the wide-bodied jets which substantially increase the load-carrying capacity, we shall not find ourselves in a situation- I hope members will pardon a little levity- where we are putting more eggs in the basket and diminishing the safety devices which ensure their well-being. 
The wide-bodied jets which are foreshadowed in the second reading speech of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  certainly bring considerable advantages in terms of economy and facility of operation. Yet axiomatically it is quite impossible to gain advantage without paying the price. The operating ability of these jets in terms of noise abatement and maintaining a reasonable condition of quietness for a sleeping city are not attained without cost. It is not all on the profit side and I think it behoves the Government in consideration of the industry as a whole to take cognisance of the fact that the industry is sustaining some of the costs to maintain our environment in the state which we would all prefer. We have also the situation of a multiplication of load carrying capacities. Our airline pilots currently are in some disfavour for what amounts to allegedly exorbitant pay demands. I shall not invite argument on this but the mathematics of the situation would appear to show, that, if there is to be a pilot-passenger relativity, clearly some thought must be given to the additional responsibility and economic effect of pilots carrying three times the passenger loading for possibly less than three times their previous salary. That is possibly an over-simplification, but I think all too often we pay too little regard to the enormous responsibility of a pilot in command of an aircraft. 
The Boeing 727-200, an admirable aircraft and a worthy successor to the long line of Boeing aircraft which have achieved extraordinary safety records and a great deal of efficiency, is making a modicum of intrusion into aerodynamics integrity and requires that much extra skill of the pilot in command. Whilst it is not exposing the travelling public to any great danger, it does call for an additional degree of skill from the pilot I mention in passing that it should not be discounted as a light responsibility to entrust to one man an asset amounting to $8m and a group of people, well in excess of 100. He has to bring them safely back to earth through all the hazards and all die difficulties that are attendant on confronting the elements in our skies. 
The wide-bodied jets, as I say, offer great prospects by more efficient aerial transportation in this country, but we must not be so ambitious in our undertakings that we lose sight of our capacity to pay. Not only do we have to pay for the aircraft but also we have to maintain all the attendant facilities to ensure their safe and efficient operation. We must look to matters such as pavement loadings, runway lengths and runway stresses. We find then that we become exposed to a threat which has shown itself to be a very real and vital thing in road transport where consistently this country, with its limited financial resources relative to the total population, endeavours to upgrade the standard of highways only to find that transport loadings, speed and general capabilities tend to continue to outreach the capacity of the road. Unless we embark on a project of continually trying to upgrade our roads and exceeding the limits of our financial resources, in time we will find that we do not have the roads to service our heavy transport and, in the aerial scene, we have not the facilities to keep pace with the advancing technology of aerial transportation. 
Whilst it is all very fine to be on the front line with our domestic services- I do not suggest for one moment that the purchase of these aircraft exceeds that limit of prudence- I would say that in the expenditure of such substantial sums of money we always have to condition our thinking to whether or not it meets our basic requirements and dispenses with the temptation to embellish the situation and to engage in an overkill. 
We have to take cognisance of the offsetting factor- the arrangment with Boeing and overseas concerns to ensure that the struggling Australian aircraft industry may derive some succour from the escalation of the transport industry in Australia. It is small comfort to see our industry gaining stature, highly regarded within the international aviation industry because of its safety record which is beyond comparison and which is built on the strictest code and demands of operational safety and efficiency. It would be tragic to see that while we achieve these great objectives our own aircraft construction industry and ancillary industries wither on the vine. We have been subjected to the trauma of seeing the production of an Australian designed and built aircraft, the Victa, come to a halt and that aircraft subsequently taken over by New Zealand, slightly modified and, I think, to the extent of $3. 5m sold to the Royal Australian Air Force as a trainer. 
This is a tragic state of affairs. I am pleased to see that in the Airline Equipment (Loan Guarantee) Bill and the attendant Bills some measure is taken to ensure that in offsetting procedures sufficient work will be given to the Australian industry not only to enable it to derive a share of the wealth and prosperity of this Australian activity but also to maintain it in a viable state so that should the need arise it will be an effective base from which to launch more ambitious programs. Of course in Australia we have a rapidly escalating passenger-kilometer rate which would reasonably ensure a continuation of the viable utilisation of these aircraft. I think the rate is currently running at about 64 per cent. In the end it is simply a matter of seat utilisation. 
It is rather discomforting to the average Australian traveller to realise that he is virtually paying for 2 seats wherever he travels. It is not always immediately evident on the trunk routes. Often we fly in aircraft that have a fairly handsome loading, but over the entire network of Australian aviation routes all too often we have to pay for seats that are not used. The tragedy of this of course is underscored by the very efficient operation of international charter flights with very high seat utilisation simply because they can go when they are full whereas our scheduled air services naturally must go when scheduled whether the aircraft are full or not. So it is to be hoped that the Government's recommendationI give it full marks for this- will lead to some departure from the excessive rationalisation of air services in Australia and we will consequently derive benefits from more frequent services which do not carry the burden of relatively low seat utilisation. 
I should also like to mention noise abatement, as it affects the operational procedures of our domestic air services. If we address ourselves excessively to the question of noise we must come to the logical conclusion and say that we shall not operate aircraft at all during the night periods or where silence is desired. I do not think the extent to which this subjects the flight crews of the aircraft and the passengers to additional operational hazards is generally recognised. While an aircraft is in the sky maintaining separation from other aircraft, particularly at busy airports, it is under risk. Whilst we have a flight service system and a radar and procedural separation system which is second to none, it cannot be denied that until an aircraft is safely to the ground it is exposed to some degree of risk. It is rather unfortunate that in adverse weather conditions quite often an aircraft and its complement must enter into an area of additional risk to maintain noise abatement procedures. This would be desirable in itself if it were not for the faa that human beings demonstrate a remarkably high tolerance to noise once they become adjusted to it. It is not uncommon for people living immediately adjacent to railway lines and busy highways to find the noise quite tolerable. Indeed, to digress, I might say there seems to be no reduction whatever in the impetus of building near highways and railway lines. It seems as though the noise is particularly tolerable to the people concerned and I would say in respect of airports also that the noise can be tolerated to a certain extent. 
Possibly the strongest protest about aircraft noise is led by people who are not regularly or consistently subjected to the noise but who go into the area to make an assessment or appraisal and are rather shocked by the intensity of the noise, whereas people who live there and are conditioned to the noise find in time that it is not intolerable. Indeed, I recall the words of a woman who lived in Germany during the blitz when Germany was subjected to the most severe nightly raids. The people became so accustomed to the intrusion of the bomber fleets that on the rare nights when for one reason or another the bombers were not able to get through the people woke up because of the silence and not the noise. Some of them even expressed the hope that nothing had happened to the bomber boys because oddly enough something was astray. So I would suggest that the whole approach to the purchase and operation of aircraft on our domestic services should not be severely handicapped by this question of noise abatement. While it certainly warrants the attention of all those concerned it can tend to be exaggerated in many respects. 
The purchase of the three 747 Qantas aircraft represents a considerable, I might even say hazardous, step in our current economic climate for international airlines. To embark on an expansionary program when the whole world is in an economic turmoil demonstrates a great deal of confidence on the part of Qantas in its ability to maintain its services in an economically viable condition. Overseas airlines are feeling the stress in the extreme and Qantas will be very much on guard to ensure that there are no substantial or grievious inroads into its economic viability. Clearly these international airlines will not readily surrender their entitlement to a share of international travel and may subject our airline to pressures which could be considered to be more than a little unreasonable. 
I hope that the purchase of these aircraft will lead both our domestic and international airlines into a position of greater stature and will result in safer and cheaper travelling for the citizens of Australia and those who wish to visit our shores. There is no question that considerable riches flow to Australia from the operations of economically viable and efficient international air services. Some hundreds of millions of dollars flow to Australia in benefit as a result. As I said, I hope that the action initiated in these Bills will lead only to happier days and greater benefits for the people of Australia. I have pleasure in commending the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-In recent months this House has, with increasing frequency and great urgency, listened to pleas from spokesmen from the Opposition benches drawing attention to the very serious condition in which some of the primary producers of Australia find themselves. I refer specifically to those persons who are engaged directly and indirectly in meat production and in the export of that product from this country. I am a tittle aggrieved because in recent days we have heard the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  supported by the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  infer that the Government was currently considering some measure of assistance for a section of the industry. They seem preoccupied with those peculiar problems that beset the primary producers in the northern reaches of this country who are engaged in the production of store cattle. I do not, for one moment, suggest that these people are not very much in need of the most worthwhile determined interest and sympathy of the Government but I draw to the attention of the House the parlous condition of many more modest primary producers. 
This week we had evidence that the market is declining even further. One wonders just how far the market can decline. My information is that at Woolooga in Queensland this week at a cattle sale of some substance 2-year-old dairy cross heifers sold for the princely sum of $8. This is a shocking state of affairs. We have become so accustomed to terms of disaster in Australia in recent times that possibly we are becoming a Little blase as to their full import. But $8 is not the price of a shirt- not even the price of a tie- and yet we can shrug this whole tragedy off as an inevitable phase in the process of economic decline. Hereford breeders with calves brought $39; Angus cows and calves, $30.50; and steers, which 12 months ago would have brought $175, were sold for $43.50. These people are tragically disposed. 
From time to time we hear well motivated protests from spokesmen on the Government benches who plead with some eloquence the need for society to assume responsibility for those who are depressed and distressed. I put it to honourable members that in this situation there are few people in Australia who, in terms of loss of employment, are more distressed than the people to whom I refer. There is nothing more final than being without income. These people have suffered a total loss of net income and, in the end, this is all that establishes one 's economic viability. These people are in a situation where they must meet rate payments to local authorities which are not in the least well situated to sustain the non-payment. Money is urgently needed by both parties and yet these people are faced with the prospect of endeavouring to pay their rates by the disposal of stock at give away prices- the stock being so terribly essential to their future well being and continued viability in their industry and also to the well-being of this society and the world at large since we have heard statements of recent days emanating from Government benches how important it is to maintain our productive capacity because unquestionably within 18 months to 2 years there will be an urgent demand for our beef products. Therefore these people are faced with the grim prospect of disposing of their stock to try to achieve some temporary liquidity so they may discharge their debts to local authorities. 
I have received a number of personal and written requests for some help. How does one help these people who are faced with the grim prospect of paying their rates and starving or of not paying their rates, eking out their meagre liquidity and transferring their problem to the local authorities and the tradesmen who have so far succoured them in their distress? There is only one cure for this problem in the short term and that is for the Government to make a strenuous effort to make available some finance, but not in the nature of a grant The industry does not ask for it It has been proud of the independence it has demonstrated over the years but in this situation where it has fallen victim to circumstances far beyond its control it has a moral entitlement to look to the Government to provide financial means to bridge this period of disaster. I would suggest that the terms be sympathetic and that the Government look to recoup these moneys in due time by imposing the minimum burden on the people involved. The interest rate applying thereto should reflect the seriousness of the situation. 
It is not sufficient to say that if a business does not pay it will be shut down. It cannot be shut down in the best interests of the nation. It does not bear contemplation that there should be any depletion in the activities of beef production in this country. Much the same can be said in respect of all primary activities. Therefore, these producers cannot abandon all the obligations in maintaining their properties. They simply cannot go out and engage in the NEAT or unemployment schemes once eligibility to such an entitlement is established. It is desperately important that they be kept on their properties. If this requires the Government to introduce supplementary schemes to take off the meat surplus at the moment, perhaps process it, can it and involve it in its foreign aid programs, so much the better. 
The Minister for Agriculture,  Senator Wriedt,  of recent times indicated that the Government was going to assume responsibility for a further $ 17m in foreign aid. We see this as providing a wonderful vehicle for the Government to be quite realistic in its approach to aid and to solving the problem of the beef industry in this country to some flight extent, bearing in mind that this action will not produce profit for the primary producer but it will enable him to stay in the game so that, in due course, he can draw his fair share of Australia's wealth and prosperity and make a massive contribution to our own personal well being and to our balance of payments. This action will meet the very urgent need of sustaining the ever-increasing world population. 
It is not possible to turn around and say to these producers: 'Diversify your activities'. In some instances, with respect to modest mixed properties there is latitude, given time. Of course, time is the very essence of this matter, and it has never been so short. Such producers have an ability to diversify into other industries including cropping and pig raising. But this takes time. It also imposes stresses on the industry into which these producers move. Axiomatically, if everybody gets on to the bandwagon, this is quite likely to break the axle. 
So, the situation is very, very serious. I would say to those members of the Government who have demonstrated, or at least expressed, their serious concern for the relief of the distress and suffering of those less fortunate members of our society that they address themselves most purposefully to this matter because in the end, as is emphasised time after time, it is people who are involved and there is no greater distress than utter despair in any strata at all of society. It is ultimate. It is finite. 
Government members say: 'Perhaps you can get rid of some of your assets. Realise on them.' This presupposes, first, that this can be done and, secondly, that this should be done. It is not generally recognised that a number of people who find themselves beneficiaries of the Government's sympathy and generosity in relief schemes are possibly the title holders of house and property worth in some cases between $40,000 and $50,000. I do not begrudge them those assets. But then we find a primary producer with total assets, of which he cannot dispose, of little more, if more. Yet his position is totally finite. He is disenfranchised from being able to take advantage of many of these schemes simply because he is regarded, quite mischieviously, as one of the landed gentry and not to be considered as vulnerable to human distress such as wage earners and salary earners are in general terms. Thankfully, the Government does not exclude him on the basis that he is not a worker. This certainly would be the last straw. 
-This Bill proposes that an amount of $66.1 lm be appropriated from the Consolidated Revenue Fund to upgrade urban public transport systems. It is noted that $27. 85m of this amount is expected to be allocated in 1974-75 and the remainder during the balance of the program over several years. I am rather gratified to see that an amount of $1 1.93m is to be appropriated for the electrification of Queensland urban railway systems, the purchase of 30 buses and various minor interchanges as specified by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones).  I hope that the Government bears in mind the insidious effect of the inflationary process which no doubt will take their toll before these programs are finally implemented. It should condition itself to a shortfall in the completion of the works programs. 
It is gratifying that the attitude of the Government is one which sees the various modes of transport as being an entity, an approach which embraces railways, ferries, buses and trams, and recognises the urgent need to integrate all of the various modes of transport and to create an efficient and integrated urban transport system. In so doing, of course, the Government would be well advised to ponder the reliability and the quality of the advice- the so-called expert advice- which has been made available over the years and which has brought about a situation in which some cities have withdrawn tramways, others have persisted with them, and even now we find a major city considering seriously the question of reintroducing them. The massive expenditure involved in embarking on these programs, or retrenching in some areas, cannot be considered lightly. It is all too easy to embark with enthusiasm on these programs and find out after the event that we were not so well informed or well advised as we might have hoped. 
As the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett)  pointed out, the country cannot for ever tolerate the position of trying to draw from the nation's resources sufficient to maintain highways and arterial roads to service the modern motor vehicle, which day after day engages in the futile exercise of transporting the solitary occupant, in most cases, into the city through smog filled atmosphere for the doubtful privilege of reversing the process at the end of the day. It has appeared quite clearly from our experience that man cannot overtake the need to meet the demands of the motor vehicle. We see the tragedy of cities such as Los Angeles where 25 per cent of the city area is devoted to urban freeways and trafficways for the motor vehicle, and the end result of the exercise is monumental failure. They have destroyed the spirit of the city and left the motorist and the person dependent on public transport as frustrated as they were in the first place. 
So quite inevitably we must consider some restriction on personal choice of transport. Unpalatable as it may sound, this is an inescapable fact of life. The introduction in recent days of the rapid transport lane in Sydney has demonstrated quite clearly that, by and large, the public is urgently in need of some education in the basics of urban transport. The public must demonstrate a degree of responsibility in which people will accept their personal responsibility to make the public transport systems operate satisfactorily. It seems an extraordinary facet of human nature that most people endorse these programs but tend to think that they are designed for the edification and guidance of every other motorist but themselves. They must assume a personal responsibility because in a country as vast as ours quite clearly we cannot cope with the heavy capital expenditure involved in order to bring things to a state approaching the ideal. 
In the matter of rapid transport lanes, considerable thought could be given to the question of additional busways and bicycleways. One might say that if the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  ignores his responsibilities, we might even consider bridle paths, because it is not beyond the bounds of possibility that, as our fuel resources are exhausted, we may finish up travelling to work by horse. 
-That is true, but there is one thing about members of the Country Party- they know how to look a horse in the mouth. The essential thing is that we must imbue the employees of our transport systems with a new pride in their service. Some of the traditional forms of transport services have suffered very sadly over the years from a decay in morale. The services have been neglected- and I speak now of a period covering 50, 60, 70 years- and in their neglect the employees have become somewhat defeatist in attitude. It is terribly important that they be imbued with a spirit of service, a pride in the transport system in which they are engaged. I must endorse the attitude that this can best be achieved by an improvement in facilities and in working conditions, as long as they remain consistent with a responsibility on the part of the workers to render the necessary service, recognising that this is a 2-way thing. 
In Queensland an electric suburban railway has been mooted for years. Argument exists as to who is responsible for the failure to continue with the electrification of the urban rail system, but I do not propose to enter into argument on the matter. The inescapable fact is that in the suburban railway system there are in excess of 30 million passenger journeys made in a year and these journeys attract gross earnings of $3. 5m. On the other hand, buses have a passenger journey total in excess of 60 million a year. This scarcely touches the gross tally of passenger movements in the city of Brisbane each and every day. Clearly there is an urgent need for the improvement of public urban services. 
Another factor which concerns me considerably is that the lack of efficient public urban systems puts at greater risk the welfare of the motoring public. It is a rather sad indictment of our society that each and every day in this country 10 or 12 people are killed in motoring accidents. Of course, these accidents do not all take place within the city boundaries, but there are far too many accidents and I rather fancy that with a more efficient public transport system and a greater sense of responsibility resulting in greater discipline on the part of the motoring public and those who are engaged in travelling to and fro in the city and suburban areas each day there might be a reduction in these tragic figures. 
In the final analysis however, all the considerations directed towards the improvement of urban public transport must be based on certain fundamentals which involve the question of decentralisation. To what extent must we perpetuate the shocking wastage that has been manifested in trying to maintain obsolete systems within our greater cities, not just in urban transport but in all systems of servicing, with the cost of servicing dwellings in the peripheral areas mounting to a point where it is scarcely tolerable from a sound economic point of view. Clearly we cannot continue. We are just pouring money into this great sink, if I may be pardoned the term, in endeavouring to support the city systems indefinitely without considering just how much our cities may be permitted to grow, just how far we are going to go in continuing to drain the nation's resources to mount services for great areas of population which in the end tend to destroy the very soul of the nation. In observance of the requirement to curtail debate on this Bill,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I conclude by endorsing the Bill. 
I would not suggest that parliamentarians should have any immunity from occupational hazard any more than people engaged in other activities, with the exception of one essential qualification. I think that parliamentarians should be freed from the hazard of being regarded as one of a group with whom they may appear whilst meeting their obligations to the electorate to accept invitations from time to time. In qualifying that statement further, I would like to refer to an event which took place in this House comparatively recently. This is a matter of record in Hansard and I see no purpose in designating the person involved because I am speaking now to a matter of principle. 
It was cited as a result of a chain of circumstances that I was involved with the League of Rights. I would like to say, and say quite emphatically, that in considering myself a representative of all the people of the electorate of Wide Bay I respond with a sensitivity and a generosity that would meet with the endorsement of my electorate whenever I am invited to attend a certain function in my capacity as member for the electorate. I am rather saddened to find that in so doing I and any parliamentarian similarly situated should be exposed to the accusation that the acceptance of an invitation must necessarily indicate a tacit endorsement of all that the organisation which issued the invitation stands for. 
I was invited to attend a function of the organisation I have mentioned on 2 occasions, of one of which the spokesman who raised this matter was not aware. Oddly enough, by the intervention of fate- on one occasion an airline strike which delayed our departure from Canberra and on another occasion by being grounded by storms- I was unable to attend both functions. So in truth I have not actually attended one of the functions that was designated. But that is purely a matter of circumstance. I would have attended these functions. I argue that as a member representing my electorate I have a responsibility and a mandate to attend functions within my electorate. By attending a function of the League of Rights I no more become a member of that organisation than I become a widow if I attend a meeting of the Civilian Widows Association. Patently it is quite absurd to suggest otherwise. 
Lest it be imagined that my protest has the effect of totally disassociating myself from the League of Rights, I would say that this is a matter of small concern to me, apart from my categoric denial that I am a member of the League of Rights or that I hold brief for its purpose. All activities in which I engaged- I would hope this applies to my fellow parliamentarians -are examined to find the good, and to discard what is not worthy of my concern or interest. I have little doubt that in the League of Rights there are many people of admirable quality and integrity who are firmly convinced that the 
League has something to offer them. I will not venture into argument on that matter; it is a matter of personal choice. But what I do argue, and argue most emphatically, is that my appearance there or the appearance of any parliamentarian in pursuit of his parliamentary duties in giving the electors their due, wherever the venue may be, should not expose him to the hazard of having a parliamentarian of the opposing faction in this House attribute to him motives that he may not in truth endorse. Carried through to the logical conclusion, I dare say that, as I have sat in the House from time to time and listened with a certain amount of respect to what Government members have said and have found myself agreeing with them completely on certain matters, I could also have had awarded to me the accolade, if it can be regarded as such, of being a Labor supporter. Again I say that this is patently absurd, and it is a tragedy if parliamentarians are to be exposed to this criticism purely on the basis that they have accepted an invitation to speak, within responsible limits, at any venue and at any function and without any further evidence to indicate what their personal attitudes might be. So be it as a matter of principle. 
I should like to take advantage of the few minutes remaining to me to bring to the attention of the House a fairly minor matter but one which is of great importance to the people concerned. This matter highlights the lack of co-ordination or liaison between the various portfolios and, to a lesser extent, between the various departments. My comment arises from the irony of a Budget measure which on the one hand takes away from the pensioners the requirement to pay $4 a year for a television licence- a not particularly substantial sum of money and one that pensioners were quite easily able to budget for. They accepted this on the basis that they knew exactly what they were doing and where they were going. So the Government removed the TV licence fee but simultaneously increased pensioners' telephone rental by $6.68. As if this were not enough, it increased the unit call charge by in excess of 26 per cent. What extraordinary irony! This is not just a matter of economics or fiscal issues, it is based on the fact that many of these' pensioners who are aged or infirm are terribly dependent on the telephone for their contact with the outside world and on occasions when they have to have urgent help rendered to them, the telephone is a great moral support and of great comfort to them. Living alone, they are very sensitive to sudden giddiness or a sudden stab of pain which could herald a serious illness, and the prospect of being isolated in their homes and unable to summon help occasions them great concern. What an extraordinary situation it is to find that on the one hand pensioners are relieved of the payment of $4 a year and on the other hand a charge for an essential service is increased substantially. 
A similar situation has occurred in the case of increased radio licence fees for radio hams. The hams are highly regarded and they have from time to time rendered sterling service to the community. Quite often at times of disaster they have been the only link between the scene of disaster and outside help. Their licence fee has doubled from $6 to $12, again not a substantial sum of money for those who have means, but in many cases ham radio is a recreational activity as well as a very vital hobby for retired people. In many cases radio hams are dependent on the pension to support their activity. Again, there is a lack of co-ordination or liaison between the departments when we find on the one hand the Department of Tourism and Recreation allocating fairly substantial sums of money for recreational purposes and on the other hand the Government making it more difficult for some people to engage in recreation. It emphasises quite clearly that ad hoc government is not good enough, and whilst there are complexities in introducing a Budget and co-ordinating the fiscal policies of the Government, clearly some closer scrutiny should be made of these matters, which not only add up to anachronisms but also result in some personal hardship to the people involved. 
Appropriation Bill (No. 3), in company with Appropriation Bill (No. 4), seeks the provision of funds to the extent of approximately $600m. Of that amount appropriations totalling approximately $1 10m- that is, $70.6m in Appropriation Bill (No. 3) and $39.7m in Appropriation Bill (No. 4)- are sought to cover expenditure up to 30 June 1975 resulting from the Darwin cyclone. These appropriations herald the first of many which will be necessary to restore Darwin, or at least to bring it to a state at which the obligations of a nation to its distressed may be considered to have been discharged. It is therefore quite imperative that all efforts towards that end should be well co-ordinated and that the result will reflect an awareness by those entrusted with  the responsibility of the need to utilise the resources of our country to the best advantage. 
Whilst the creation of the Darwin Reconstruct tion Commission provides an instrumentality well situated to pursue its charter, this Parliament must not forget other areas and industries threatened by difficulties and, in some cases, disaster. In short, I wish to draw to the attention of this House the extraordinary failure of the Government to consider properly the position of the Australian umber industry and the 2-way benefits that would flow from its involvement in the reconstruction of Darwin. It would appear to me that the Government not only is permitted to salvage what it can from the Darwin disaster but also is heavily obliged to do so. Estimates of the cost of reconstruction range from $300m to $900m. Regardless of the eventual amount, in the main it will come from the pockets of the Austraiian taxpayer. Therefore one would expect more than a sympathetic approach from the Government to the prospect of involving Australian industries in the restoration program. 
On that note I return to the umber industry. Australian timber industry spokesmen were quick to point out to the Government the benefits from timber orders in relieving unemployment problems. In that respect they canvassed the Government quite fully and received replies from the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson).  Apart from an acknowledgement, they have not yet received a reply from the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson).  As well as maintaining viability in the timber industry and retaining the capacity to meet Australia's future needs, it would appear to be eminently more logical to assist in maintaining employment directly rather than to engage in the more costly practice of paying unemployment social security benefits. However, the Government apparently has made it quite clear to the industry that it has no intention of bringing any influence on the Darwin Reconstruction Commission to give thought to the wider implications of the building program. 
To that end, all timber organisations in Australia have been advised by the Government that the Commission is autonomous in its function and that it is the intention of that Commission to continue its practice of calling public tenders. The effect of that practice is to disadvantage immediately Australian suppliers because of the high freight costs paid under Australian award conditions compared with those paid from overseas countries. I refer to those countries not bound by such conditions and which, in some cases, are considerably closer to Darwin. The main alternative regular sources of supply are Malaysia which supplied 26 per cent of Darwin's former requirements, New Guinea which supplied 41 per cent, and Singapore and the Philippines which supplied a little more than 4 per cent between them. Australia in 1973-74 supplied more than 28 per cent of the timber used in Darwin. 
It is noteworthy that Australian hardwood timber prices on the east coast are cheaper than those for imported timbers. This in itself is a tribute to the efficiency of the Australian timber industry. However, when it comes to the transportation of this commodity throughout our vast country, the impact of a high cost transport system is immediately felt. The freight cost to Darwin of south-east Queensland timber by rail to Mt Isa and thence by road transport is $85 per tonne. This works out at $24.38 to $25.80 per 100 superficial feet, which is more than 3 times greater than the freight charges from Malaysia to Fremantle which approximate $7.40 per 100 superficial feet. Of course, Malaysia-Darwin freight costs can be estimated to be even less than that. Australian hardwood at Brisbane is currently priced at $ 1 1 8.20 per cubic metre, compared with the ex wharf price from Brisbane of $146 per cubic metre for selected and better grade meranti timber. The movement of the freight differential relative to Darwin prices disqualifies Australian suppliers from responsible tendering, and the industry in particular and the nation in general are denied the opportunity of fortuitous circumstances arising from the Darwin cyclone. A further attraction of Australian hardwood is to be found in its superior strength rating. Surely that is something to be weighed against the Government's emphatic assertions that every thought should be given to the quality of new buildings in Darwin. 
We have listened to the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  put forward a vigorous argument in which he explained that unemployment is a problem common to all nations and that, lamentable as it may be - 
Indeed, it may be argued that it is worse in Australia when one considers all of the conditions that would naturally offset all these problems. Whether the honourable member was successful in persuading attendance to his point of view I leave to the judgment of honourable members. But assuming that unemployment was thrust upon us, can we plead innocence from a charge that we have been derelict in applying ourselves to the solution of the problem. Here in the detail I offer to the House is a classic illustration where out of the heaven-sent misfortune, if the honourable members will accept the contradiction in terms, ofthe Darwin disaster is a first class opportunity to bolster an industry- an Australian industryvery important to our permanent scheme of things, which, in common with many other industries, is feeling the strain of economic stress. If we are going to argue that Darwin must be rebuilt on the cheap or with maximum conservation of resources, both financial and physical, we are not going to get the Darwin which we have been led to believe is our entitlement and the due to those people who suffered very seriously in that tragedy. 
If we are going to say that we can buy timber more cheaply overseas, is it not logical that we should extend the argument into every avenue of cost saving? Can we not argue that if we substitute our rather high quality and high cost coastal shipping in Australia, where the seamen and officers are paid at a rate consistent with Australian awards, we can reduce the price of our timber in Darwin? One might even say that we can undercut the price of imported timber into Darwin if we brought the Lascars back into coastal shipping. This would solve the problems but would it be acceptable to our Australian way of life, our thinking on social reform and our thinking on the standards which we consider the due of Australians? Of course it would not be. But how totally ridiculous to lose this golden opportunity of assisting the supply of Australian timber to the Darwin restoration by freight support and keeping Australian industry workers in employment where they would not be in need of unemployment benefits and they would not have their spirits eroded by unemployment. At the same time these industries would be maintained in a condition from which they could immediately spring into full production when, hopefully, the day will arrive when conditions wil become more buoyant in Australia. 
What will the Government do about it? Apparently it is not as sensitive to the seriousness of the problem as various other people, among whom is  Mr E.  Williams of the Australian Workers' Union who, in a letter to  Mr Armstrong,  said quite clearly: 
I wish to acknowledge your telegrams, and particularly the last one to yourself as AWU representative ACTU, received by me in Melbourne. I note in your telegram the import price advantages against the Australian Timber Industry and the advice of  Dr Cairns  following your representations. 
I further note in your telegram that  Mr G.  G. Goding, the Queensland Branch  President  of the Australian Workers' Union, has advised full Union support for your proposition. 
The proposition being that of assisting the Aus.tralian timber industry to compete effectively with overseas concerns in the supply of timber for the reconstruction of Darwin.  Mr Williams  went on to say: 
I have to advise you that this matter was taken up at our Executive Council level and our Executive Council carried a motion that they would make representations to the Whitlam Government over the unfairness of the situation and also, through the ACTU, that consideration should be given to the purchase of Queensland and/or other States timbers in the reconstruction of Darwin. 
So you will see that the whole of the State and federal organisation of the AWU are behind your submissions. 
That is fairly clear and that  would constitute  a commonsense approach to the problem. It is not good enough to say that the whole task of rebuilding Darwin is in the hands of the Commission. Clearly the Government has a responsibility to make political decisions, to give some direction, some indication to the Commission how Australia could be served on a much broader base. If we are to ignore the rates of pay that Australian workers get, their 4 weeks paid holiday, their 17 te per cent pay loadings, the high workers compensation premiums, the various shipping awards and all these things, the relevance drops out of my argument. But they are there and we would not undermine them. They are there to stay so it is up to the Government to review its attitude on the matter and to make every genuine effort to get behind this proposition from the timber industry from which only good can flow to the country in general. 
Other matters arise from the Appropriation Bills, including the direction of funds to the Regional Employment Development scheme and assistance through the States for roads. All these things are quite worth while in themselves but they are not effective in coming to grips with the real problem. They are in the nature of bandaging a cancer. They are not directed at getting the spirit back into this country and the people back to work. The key to our problem lies in effective production- production on an individual basis- and a new sense of responsibility by aU those concerned. We want RED schemes that Will stand as a monument to the good intentions of this Government, of any government, and the Government's best endeavours to relieve the unemployment which in part, as the honourable member for Gellibrand pointed out, is related to international conditions. Rather than dissipate our limited resources on matters, in many respects of dubious worth, greater attention could be given to major projects. One which immediately comes to mind is the Monduran-Kolan irrigation scheme in the Bundaberg area of Queensland- a scheme that is much mooted by economists. It has been thoroughly examined and its worth to the nation is beyond dispute. 
It is good country, as the honourable member for Darling Downs points out. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! I know that there is a mutual admiration society in the Australian Country Party corner but I am certain that the honourable member for Wide Bay can do very well without the assistance he is getting. 

-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I appreciate the fact that you have an instant recognition of the value of the electorate of Wide Bay. I personally urge the Government to attend seriously to the matter of collaboration in the expenditure of public moneys. From time to time in this House we have seen instances of a lack of liaison and co-ordination even in humble terms in the Budget, such as when the $4 television licence fee for pensioners was waived in line with the removal of television licence fees overall and at the same time pensioners' telephone rentals and unit call charges were increased. This seems to be a contradiction in this exercise but it illustrates how perhaps in a sense of urgency through eagerness to do things the Government wants to do, it tends to overrun itself. There are lots of opportunities in Australia for the more effective application of public moneys. The projects to which I referred in speaking to these Appropriation Bills give ample latitude for the Government to demonstrate its good faith in the matter. 
-The Family Law Bill 1974 has been introduced to replace the Matrimonial Causes Act 1959-73 and with the attendant amendment has attracted attention which, if not unprecedented, is probably greater than that which would be attracted by the overwhelming proportion of legislation which enters this House. We, as members, of course have been reminded of our enormous responsibilities in this conscience vote situation and we have all been subjected to a considerable volume of advice and exhortations as to how we should deal with the matter. It is because of the great interest of our constituents that I believe it proper that we should take the opportunity of placing on record in the Hansard of" the House our individual attitudes towards this Bill so that the people who have sought our assistance at least will know whether we are worthy of their approbation or condemnation. 
In accordance with democratic processes, it must necessarily be a matter of the majority decision. In that respect, we find our speeches tend to incline to 3 main groups- those who support, those who oppose and those who have some indecision. The fate of this Bill of course will rest with those in a state of indecision. In that respect we have heard a confusion of opinions, and decision vacillates from one extreme to the other as the weight of argument moves from one point to another. But it is encouraging to find that whilst there has been a confusion of opinions at least they have been bound together by the strong thread of honest self-examination. The arguments- numerous arguments- have been quite emphatic. Many of them have been praiseworthy, most of them models of clarity and conviction. Yet by their very diversity they demonstrate the futility in seeking unanimity. 
The Bill's strength and weaknesses have been thoroughly canvassed and the speeches stand in the official records of this Parliament as testimony to the manner in which we have conducted our debate. I do not intend to recapitulate all the arguments that have persuaded me to support an amendment to the Bill but I pose 2 fundamental questions. The first of them is: Can we, as members of society, expect absolute indemnity against misfortune? The second is: Are we increasingly to accept a situation in which contracts need no longer be honoured. I feel that these 2 questions really .contain the seeds of what might eventually grow in new social attitudes. Indemnity against misfortune was the first question. Are we not, as a society, developing an attitude that if we blunder, if by innocent error of judgment we find ourselves in a situation not meeting with our satisfaction, that we can be extricated from that embarrassment or distasteful situation, or in terms of the vernacular, somebody else will pick up the tab? 
It is very simple under the stimulus of compassion and concern for our fellows to endeavour to assist them where assistance may be considered desirable or necessary. But in doing so we continually incline towards an attitude, quite unthinkingly in many respects, that somehow or other fate will give us better than the record suggests we should receive. How far can we go in terms of disasters of any nature- natural disasters emanating from some phenomenon of nature, disasters from pure chance on the highways in motor vehicles, disasters emanating from individual judgments on matters such as whether to marry, whether to take heed or advice in a matter or whether to go in strong mind and strong will in defiance of all reasons to the contrary? 
Do we not accept in entering into the marriage arrangement a responsibility to accept the end result, within reason, for better or for worse- an expression that is familiar to the ears? It features largely in the traditional marriage ceremony. For better or for worse we enter a contract to uphold the terms of it. Theoretically we are familiar with those terms prior to the event but, as is often the case, the small print is ignored. If we are to ignore the small print in the marriage contract or any other contract it must necessarily follow that the contract in itself is of little consequence because of so doing. If at any time subsequent to the signing of the contract we find that it does not accommodate our ambitions or likings, should we be able to extricate ourselves from the position in which we find ourselves? 
If this attitude towards contracts is to be carried across the whole spectrum of human activities we will find that there will be no degree of responsibility and no longer will we be able to accept the assurance of one party or another that he or she will adhere to the terms of the contract. The marriage contract is nothing more and nothing less than a clear undertaking entered into in good faith on the part of the principals that they will adhere to the terms of the contract or, more simply, to the rules of the game. If we reserve the right to play the game as we feel inclined quite clearly we do away with the rules altogether. 
This Bill is presented to us as one which will remove all the odium from divorce. It is argued and described in simple terms as a no fault family law Bill. In truth there is provision within this Bill fairly simply and possibly even automatically to receive a divorce at the expiration of a 12 months period on the ground of irretrievable breakdown. The legislation deals fairly simply with the first stage of divorce. But the Bill then also outlines provisions for dealing with matters of custody of the children and property. When one mentions custody, of course, one must give considerable thought to the conduct of the parents, or the principals, in terms of their fitness to continue in custody of the children. As soon as one talks of conduct, of course, one introduces the question of fault, and someone has to sit in judgment to determine where the fault lies, who has been guilty. As soon as one puts these factors under examination one embarks again on the whole trauma of accusation and vilification to establish who is wrong and who is right. The same applies in the case of property, perhaps with greater vigour; because with our materialistic attitude to things property may have a greater attraction in many cases than the custody of children. 
It is not a no fault family law Bill at all. Of course, there are improvements in the Bill. For that reason I and many of my colleagues are attracted to the possibilities within the amendment to the second reading of the Bill which keeps open the option of making such amendments to the Bill in the Committee stages or when it is reintroduced into the House to accommodate our individual and collective attitudes but which does not require us to declare, by supporting or opposing the basic Bill, whether we are for or against it. Quite clearly there is ample room and an urgent need for revision and improvement to the Matrimonial Causes Act as it stands at the moment. 
The concluding observation I should like to make- and I am sure that all honourable members will agree with me on this- is that it is something of an indictment of our society, bordering on the tragic, that so much of the energies and attentions of this nation should be focused on the question of how to destroy or, if not to destroy, to attend to the debris of marriage, rather than concentrating on the matters that would tend to support marriage in advance, not only at the time of marriage. We need to prepare people for marriage properly so that they can approach it with a greater sense of responsibility and a greater selfdiscipline which would considerably enhance the prospects of marriage being maintained within the terms of its concept. It is my hope that honourable members will find it within themselves to support the amendment to the second reading and continue earnest deliberation on this Bill. 
-In the matter of the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Discriminatory Laws) BUI 1975, I am pleased to have the opportunity to speak in support of many of the people to whom the Bill refers who are resident in the electorate of Wide Bay. I also count among my friends some of the councillors at the Cherbourg Aboriginal Reserve who have demonstrated to me quite clearly their competence to manage their own affairs. They have also convinced me of their fitness to be regarded as Queenslanders of the first degree, and we so regard them. Both men and women councillors of the Cherbourg Reserve have enabled me to become far better informed on their problems and they have earned my respect in so doing. 
This BUI is another of those advanced by contemporary society which at first blush immediately attracts the attention and sympathy of the ordinary man in the street. It evidences a torment of conscience, perhaps, of contemporary society for the way in which it has been derelict in its duties and responsibilities over the years to some of the unfortunate minorities. But our torment of guilt should not prompt us to act indiscreetly in a futile effort to remedy the problem. We have earlier this day addressed ourselves to the Racial Discrimination Bill which flowed from a resolution of the International Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Racial Discrimination from the United Nations. The chief feature of that Bill, as honourable members will recall, and its pertinence to the matter now being discussed is that by the introduction of penalties we will be able to achieve what understanding and reason have not been able to achieve previously, notwithstanding that the resolution, as evidenced in the Schedule attached to the Racial Discrimination Bill, insists that we are to promote and encourage universal respect for and observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms for all. 'Promote and encourage'- a time consuming and tedious process but one which nevertheless acknowledges that people cannot be bludgeoned into assuming an attitude towards their fellows that they do not feel instinctively. That is where this Bill and others tend to depart from rhyme and reason. It would be logical to look to those who have some influence and standing in the affairs of the Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders to declare their attitude in the matter. 
Honourable members have heard from the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  earlier today the outcome of an exchange of telegrams between the councillors of the Cherbourg Aboriginal Reserve and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh).  I refrain from making any particular comment on that because those people who heard the remarks of the Minister would be as singularly unimpressed as I am. The whole process of relieving the problems of these people, must of necessity, be an evolutionary one. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  indicated that we can hasten too quickly, just as we can progress too slowly. The progress must be based on a very real appreciation that citizenship and all it involves is based very firmly on the matter of privileges and responsibilities. There seems to be as much neglect in educating people to their responsibilities as there is enthusiasm for advancing their rights to privileges, real or imaginary. 
The particular Bill to which the Minister seeks amendment is one which is intended to elevate, regardless of their overall fitness, those people who are disadvantaged under the Queensland Bill to a position of full citizenship entitlement. 
Of course, this cannot be argued against in principle, except that if in the process we convince ourselves that they will be done a mischief, we should take pause. Would it be difficult to convince ourselves that it would do them a mischief? Would it be pertinent to recall the words of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs who, in assessing the progress made by the Aboriginal programs, declared them to be a 'disaster'? Would it be pertinent to recall the words of the Prime Minister of recent times when he lamented that there is little evidence of progress made from the shockingthat is not his word; I describe it in my own terms- outlay of public funds which tends to have undermined the position of the Aboriginal rather than strengthen it? Would we not be well advised then to consider whether we are not embarking on another exercise which will do these people a further mischief? I suggest very seriously that we would be. 
The Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders are Queenslanders. They are Queenslanders of whom, as a people, we are proud. As a people, of course, they have their social misfits as we white people do. We should not emphasise too much the position of those from a particular group who, because of their very distinctive qualities demonstrate their lack of social responsibility when they are perpetrating a mischief. There is a tendency to be painfully aware of their problem when they demonstrate their lack of fitness for full social responsibility. This distracts our attention from those admirable people among the Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders who stand tall and proud within our society, achieving their status by merit and ability and not only refusing to ask for charitable treatment or treatment that smacks of a degree of condescension but also arguing that it should not be given. It is also an extraordinary feature that our consideration of this matter should seriously have been affected by the alleged treatment in these institutional type reserves and establishments. We find that the people who have been subjected to this type of existence for a longer period which must necessarily make them the older group demonstrate a greater social awareness and sense of citizenship than many of the young people who have not been affected to the fullest extent by the rather hamstrung conditions in the Queensland Act. 
There is an argument to advance here that the more Aborigines are given too soon the less tendency they have to assume their civic responsibilities. It is argued that the people on these reserves should be paid at full award wages. This in itself has an immediate appeal but is there not a parallel here with the unions who insist on wages and job conditions that virtually price them out of a job? What is the good of the best job conditions on earth if you do not have a job? What is the good of full award wages to an Aboriginal who is required to leave his reserve because he could not maintain the viability of the reserve on such a scale of payment and who finds outside in the competitive world that there is no job offering to him unless he can demonstrate his ability to do it? 
Again, we swing back to features of the Racial Discrimination Bill which would necessitate that if one of these Aborigines from a reserve or, to a lesser extent, one of these Torres Strait Islanders who ethnically seem to demonstrate an all-round greater ability in their original state should apply for a position in this outside world and find that because of lack of opportunity he is not up to the job and preference is given to a non-Aboriginal, immediately, under the terms of the Racial Discrimination Bill, an employer who decides to exercise that preference is liable because of all the reasons advanced for discrimination against the appointment. The racial element will be considered as the determining factor. Again we do the Aboriginal a mischief. To us they are very much Queenslanders. I speak as a Queenslander. We deplore the proposition that the reserves should become virtually a seventh State in this nation of ours. This is retrogressive. Immediately there must be a backlash which is evidenced on many occasions where the remainder of the Australian population reels under the impact of perhaps farsighted, but certainly precipitate and premature Government plans, to elevate these people beyond their capacity to maintain the pace. 
It is very important that we should maintain a balance and that we should provide the opportunity that permits these people to demonstrate their fitness to take their full part in society. They should rise on merit. It is important that we should direct ourselves to maintaining the necessity that the Aboriginal, along with all other people in this country, must demonstrate his fitness. Nobody is entitled to an absolute handout. Nobody is entitled to a run on the rails or to be carried across the finishing line. Life is naturally competitive and we must argue that everybody should get a fair go but that they must demonstrate in the end that they have energy, ability and those other qualities that entitle them to take their place in society. At present we tend to intrude and say that this will be done, that that will be done and that we will change attitudes. 
The Irish problem stands today as one that mocks man's best endeavours in this respect. Notwithstanding the attentions and the efforts of governments with the most determined intent, the scene remains tragically a monument to man's frailty in assuming his responsibilities in these particular fields where he must accept the right of his fellow to exploit his talents, assuming that he has had a fair opportunity to demonstrate those talents. 
It is said that an Aboriginal man's home is his castle on a reserve and it should be treated as such. How naive it is that we should assume that his home is any more a castle than the home of anybody else in this country. In this modern society there are extreme circumstances, including wire tapping, under which a man's home is far from being his castle. Certainly we should aspire to keep it as his castle. But do not let us delude ourselves that any special group or person should have privileges over and above what are regarded as the norm for our society at large. Certainly, as the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  says, these people should be judged by their peers. He says that we should allow their peers to qualify for the assumption of authority. They have demonstrated beyond doubt that they can do so. 
The councillors of these reserves- I refer again particularly to the Cherbourg Reserve- by their very protests against the introduction of these measures quite clearly indicate their willingness to continue with the measures they have already adopted to work things out as they see best for their people. These councillors are the peers of the people on the reserve. They sit there in judgment on their fellows. They sit in the reserve, work in the reserve, and demonstrate qualities that can only be admired. On the other hand, many of the younger people who have come under the sway of the policies of the Governmentwell motivated, I will concede- are more likely to be found in the streets of Murgon in a state of disarray and sadly under the influence of alcohol. They stand as a monument to the wisdom of those in power who decided that the Aboriginal, without education and without assistance to assume the degree of responsibility necessary, could handle liquor. The sad facts demonstrate quite clearly that he cannot do so. 
We have a great aversion to the suggestion of people working in a well knit group within a community for their own common purpose. Yet, the world is full of such instances. There are kibbutzes. There are communes. There are many such groups throughout the world. This is nothing particularly unique or original. It is not necessarily something that is without favourable features. All too often we view these problems against the background of our ordinary social fabric. This is quite wrong. We have to decide whether we want to maintain the culture of the Aboriginal, whether we want to grant land rights to him, whether we want to relegate him to the distant places of this continent or whether we want to absorb or merge- describe it as we please- him into the main Australian community, realising that that represents about 99 per cent of our community. 
We cannot have it both ways. If we are to turn around and discriminate between one group and another even with the best of intentions, I say that for every step forward we will take 2 steps backwards. As a Queenslander who is conscious of his responsibilities in this matter and is proud to number among his friends many Aborigines and some Torres Strait Islanders, I convince myself in all sincerity that their best interests are not being well served by the introduction of the measures that the Government now contemplates. I urge the House to oppose the amendments foreshadowed by the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant). 
-Was the Minister for Environment and Conservation informed by the Minister for Minerals and Energy 4 days before the Environmental Impact Bill became law that the Minister for Minerals and Energy had sanctioned the export of mineral sands from Fraser Island? 

 -Yes, Mr Deputy Speaker, I second the motion. I do so with a great awareness of what a serious impact the Fraser Island issue is having upon the electorate of Wide Bay, particularly in the Fraser Island-Maryborough-Hervey Bay area. I am very concerned because I see the issue driving a wedge into the community affected. It is sad to see people who have lived in unanimity and accord displaying attitudes of great hostility towards one another. I am on record as expressing more than a little sympathy with the need to maintain some balance in the matters of conservation and environment. I am painfully aware of the depressed state of the Maryborough district and the urgent need to stimulate it. 
-Having the opportunity to speak briefly on the Children's Commission Bill 1975 I do so conscious that the program of the House requires some abridging of our remarks. I should like to make an observation or two regarding a proposal which must immediately attract the support and sympathy of all fair minded Australians, all those who are conscious in this society of ours today that there are groups of people, particularly among children, who are not being afforded the full opportunity to grow to adulthood having fully exploited their native talents. But I am also of course, as no doubt many other Australians are, a little mystified as to whether again the Government may overrun itself with an enthusiasm to initiate these programs, an enthusiasm which was evidenced on a previous occasion with its pre-school education program which called for the expenditure of $ 123m in a year, overlooking entirely, of course, that the facilities did not exist for the immediate implementation of that scheme. 
In this Children's Commission Bill we have a most comprehensive program and objectives to remove entirely, it would appear, all the vicissitudes that assail the young in Australia. I cannot help but observe in passing that it reminds me a little of those parents, typifying most parents really, who make every sacrifice and every effort to have their young grow up as ladies and gentlemen only to find all too often that they grow up like themselves. It suggests that we cannot necessarily achieve the objective simply by introducing a law. We have again, as in many other pieces of legislation, blithely skipped by the fundamental question as to our changing social pattern and our changing social fabric. The single income family, which has become increasingly beset with difficulties, economic and social, has again been put aside as a problem which perhaps can resolve itself. Many of these questions and proposals emanating from the Bill are attached directly to whether we continue to accept the one income family as the norm within Australia. These families are being forced into the area of the poverty stricken and we seem indifferent to the circumstances that bring this about. We are increasingly accepting a multiple income family as the pacesetter in our community. Whilst we justify this as a measure to offset the impact of inflation, it may well be argued in some cases whether the multiple income family is indeed not contributing to inflation. 
The honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  here a few nights ago made an observation which I think acted as a tribute to his perception. He said that the expectations of our society possibly are considerably higher than properly may be the case, that this is subjecting our economy and our society to great stresses because we have been aiming too high, aiming beyond our entitlement, seeking more than in actual fact we can pay for, more than we have a moral entitlement to. Here in this Bill we attempt to establish a Utopia which will accommodate all people regardless of their degree of individual responsibility. Unquestionably many of these facilities are urgently required to meet the needs of those people who have no opportunity to implement alternative measures. But it also creates a wonderful opportunity for people to put aside completely their prime responsibility as parents and, in this case, particularly as mothers. 
No one would suggest, particularly in this International Women's Year, that we should deny in any shape or form the right of a woman to fulfil herself in whichever venue or through whichever avenue she might so desire. But I think it could be described as axiomatic that one cannot have one's cake and eat it too. We tend here to denigrate the status of motherhood and the status of the family. I do not invite argument as to what the status of the family actually may be in this context. Of course I have an opinion of my own. But this Bill seems to suggest that one can please one's self whether one has neither or whether one has both because the State unquestionably will pick up the tab. If that is what the population wants at the price of $885m over 10 years it is their prerogative to indicate clearly through the elected government that that should be the case. It depends very heavily on skilled and expert knowledge in the social welfare area. Some of these activities may become increasingly questionable if we transfer the critical responsibilities of the family to the State. It will have the incidental effect of taking up the great surplus which will result from the overkill in education in which modern society has engaged, and certainly will relieve a great deal of the worries and responsibilities of social graduates. 
The Bill is fairly lucid. It accepts the latch key children as an essential part of modern society. Again it may be argued whether we have to 'accept a situation in which more and more of these children will be left to their own devices without moral guidance. Sub-clause 3 (g) simply calls for the promoting of the physical or mental development of children. It seems to overlook entirely the question of moral guidance. After all, any scheme, no matter how laudably motivated, that ignores the moral issues can meet with only limited success, if any success at all. Sub-clause 3 (d) reads as follows: 
the care of physically or mentally disabled or handicapped children at a time or times of the day when they are not being provided with a prescribed service and are not being cared for in their own homes; 
I am heartened to find in that sub-clause the suggestion that some of the brain damaged children in my electorate who are receiving assistance, instruction and direction under the scheme for the achievement of human potential which has currently defied the best offices and intentions of the Government, will be relieved of some of their most pressing problems. In that respect the Bill seems to be all-embracing. 
There seems to be a great predilection on the part of the Government or of those who drafted this Bill at all times to relate the facilities to the matter of relieving parents who are engaged in employment, as if this is the only group which can properly claim the sympathy and the service of the Government. Again this denigrates the traditional family institution. 
As the honourable member for Darling Downs says, the mother who stays at home must now bear the brunt of the financial and social hardships because her deprived children suffer discrimination among their peers in their schools and in their social activities. It is quite clear that, as a complement to this Commission in endeavouring to relieve the problems of our young, the Government and society as a whole must initiate an investigation and give the most serious thought to whether we have changed our social structure so much that the single income family now becomes an anachronism and whether we must make all those necessary adjustments to establish a new norm by which people may reasonably set their standards. 
-In speaking to the Purchasing Commission Bill I should like to point out that this Bill had its genesis in the Committee of Inquiry into Government Procurement Policy headed by  Sir Walter  Scott. The report of that Committee was presented to the Government in May 1974. Eleven months later the Government released the report and then introduced this Bill a fortnight ago. The Bill sets up a purchasing commission to organise purchases which have a value greater than $5,000 by Government departments, Government corporations and companies in which the Government has a majority interest, such as the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation. 
Exempted from the activities of the Commission are the Department of Services and Property, the Department of Housing and Construction and the publishing section of the Department of the Media. One must immediately ask why. Do these exemptions give the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  carte blanche to buy more and more office buildings and to charter more Qantas Boeings to fly carpets to Peking? Does it allow him to buy what he likes without the scrutiny of the Commission when his ministerial colleagues have to go along with the Commission? The position becomes more ludicrous with respect to housing and construction. The Department of Housing and Construction is about to be split up, with construction becoming separate and housing being transferred to the Department of Urban and Regional Development. The Minister may not know about this but, according to impeccable sources, it is going to happen in the recess. When that split occurs, what department will be exempted from the Bill- the Department of Urban and Regional Development and Housing or the Department of Construction? 
Why exclude the publishing section of the Department of the Media? Does the Government not want scrutiny made of its publishing activity? Why does it not want it to be scrutinised? For understandable reasons exclusions are available for some aspects of defence purchasing but, to my mind, this does not go far enough. When one contemplates the submission to the original inquiry on the need to establish the Commission, the points made by the Department of Defence are valid when viewed against the technical complexity and confidentiality of the equipment that Department is buying. 
Several aspects of the Bill fill me with deep concern. Clause 17 allows the Minister to give directions to the Commissioner which could, if the 
Minister was in any way corrupt, allow the Minister to favour his cronies by telling the Commission that it is to buy its goods from a nominated company. There is reference in the Bill that complaints by potential suppliers about the Commission can be made to the new office of ombudsman. One failing in this respect is that the power of the ombudsman is not binding. This is my understanding on reading the Bill dealing with the establishment of the office of ombudsman. Another problem in this area is that the Committee of Inquiry recommended that there should be an appeals tribunal. That recommendation has been overlooked totally by the Government in this Bill and the Parliament should be told why. 
The Commission, being the biggest single buyer in the Australian economy, acting on instructions of the Minister, could engage in totally unethical practices. The Minister could instruct the Commission to buy only from companies where union membership was total. The Commission could be instructed to buy only from companies that made contributions to Labor Party funds. It could create monopolies where there are only a few suppliers of a product required by the Government. For instance, there are only 2 railway brake-block makers in Australia. With the passage of the railway Bills now before the House, the operation of this Commission would mean that the Commission could favour just one brake-block manufacturer, thus putting one manufacturer out of business and creating a monopoly. So much for the argument of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  joined now by the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  that competition is good for the Australian economy. 
The operations of the Purchasing Commission could fuel inflation. The Commission would not be bound to take the lowest price for the best quality product. It could offer quite unreal prices; prices which would lead to increases in the price of the same goods to other industry sectors. As a result, industry would have to pay more and people would have to pay more for the products of industry and would also have to pay more in taxes to pay for the policies of the Commission. The Commission could wither industry, half socialise it, monopolise it and bring no lasting benefit. 
Adding to these problems is the fact that the Commission would lead to duplication in the Public Service. The various Government departments would still maintain their purchasing departments, as would the Government corporations. Will there be a Commission inspector at every wool sale giving the OK to the Australian Wool Corporation's representatives as they bid for wool? The whole approach of the Bill is ridiculous. It overlooks the crucial recommendations of the Scott report and creates so many inequities that it can be regarded only as a Bill brought into the House for light relief and to further the Government's control over the operations of Australian industry by centralising the Government's buying activities. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion ( by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-The 1975-76 Budget that has been brought down establishes beyond any doubt that this Government lacks either the ability or the determination to come to grips with the unprecedented economic problems confronting this country. The Government, well and truly caught in its own net of fiscal mismanagement and reeling before pubUc indignation, as reflected in recent popularity pOllS, has set out by sleight of hand to persuade the people that this Budget warrants the continuation in office of a government that has brought Australia to the brink of disaster. Whilst pretending great concern for the need to combat inflation and to afford tax relief, the Government promptly increased direct taxes on beer, petrol, tobacco and spirits. That unquestionably will erode any tax savings gained by the 'nowyouseeit now-you-don't' new taxation scheme. This new system is calculated to cost the Government $205m on a true full year basis. Why the taxpayer should be delighted about that, while at the same time being fleeced to the extent of $60 lm in the aforementioned direct taxes, is very obscure. 
The inescapable fact is that those costs will compound the difficulties that many Australians have in making ends meet. It would be quite specious for the Government to assert that such items as tobacco, beer and spirits were nonessentials and that individual budgetary problems could be resolved by the discontinuance of their use. The Government knows, of course, that it can anticipate confidently the maintenance of the levels of consumption of those commodities. Were that not so, the exercise would be selfdefeating as a revenue earning device. It is quite extraordinary that this Government, which came into office pretending to be the champion of the so-called little man, shows a savage disregard for the impositions placed upon the relatively modest indulgences of the majority of Australians Certainly, if the wage earner believes that he can fund these personal expenditures from promised tax savings he is in for a disappointment. 
The Government's insistence on exploiting inflation to finance its extravagant social welfare programs will lead inevitably to the movement of income earners to high tax brackets. Indeed, on the figures of the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden),  wages are expected to rise by 22 per cent, leading to an extra $2,6 12m in pay-as-you-earn tax. If the Australian taxpayers can accept a proposition in which wages and salaries rise by 22 per cent and taxes rise by 43 per cent, clearly there is no call for responsible government. However, that is not the case. At long last there is an awakening in the community to the fact that riding a wave of wages chasing costs inevitably must dump the rider in the shallows and leave him stranded in a backwater of economic disarray. Fewer Australians than ever before are prepared to accept soaring inflation, record levels of interest rates, particularly in home buying, erosion of savings and shortages of commodities and services. They have looked in vain to the Government for a belated plan of action to put value and purpose back into their activities. 
Nowhere in the Budget is there to be found any really worthwhile measure to stimulate the private sector. The  Vh  per cent reduction in the rate of company tax is of little consequence. The companies most requiring assistance are those which in great numbers are currently in a loss or marginal profit situation. The fact of the matter is that in this country today one-third of the 250 000 small businesses are in grave risk of bankruptcy. Just how the Government intends to provide opportunity for the 42 per cent of Australia's work force employed in small businesses is not apparent in the Budget. These small businesses are going to the wall. Inflation and depressed markets are proving more than they can cope with. Whereas normally business managers on their own judgment may offset temporary downturns by judicious borrowing, they are in this situation of excessively high interest rates precluded from adopting that practice. For those who take the risk there exists no alternative but to increase their costs to service their borrowings. The effect of inflation is self-evident. 
As the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  points out, Government supporters do not care. The tragedy of the small business is that it is the very spirit of the private enterprise system. It is in this area that the little man, by personal initiative and energy, can elevate himself from the often stifling routine of mundane employment. The benefits of such practice to the individual and to the country are a matter of record. Whilst the Government is obsessed with its objective of cutting down the giants of industry and commerce, it seems totally insensitive to the injury being done to small businesses. The magnitude of the penalty of such neglect is in proportion to the importance of small business. 
It may not generally be appreciated that small business constitutes the greater portion of Australian industry. It accounts for 97 per cent of manufacturing, 99 per cent of retailing, 97 per cent of wholesaling and 99 per cent of real estate and business services. In manufacturing, small factories- those employing fewer than 150 persons- account for 42 per cent of the work force in that area, 40 per cent of the total wages and about 38 per cent of total turnover. In the retail and service area, small businesses employ almost one million people. Action initiated to relieve these businesses of payroll tax and tax on undistributed profits would be of great assistance. High on the list of businesses which failed to gain government relief is primary industry, particularly the beef industry. The inclusion in the Budget of an allocation of $ 19.6m for carry-on finance for the beef industry- this was announced considerably in advance of the presentation of the Budget- confirms the Government's resolve to let the beef industry work out its own dilemma. Refusing to acknowledge that the beef industry's economic difficulties have passed beyond what might be regarded as the rise and fall of fortune within reasonable business limits, the Government has compounded the industry's difficulties by failing to take action to offset the crushing effect of the Postal Commission's increase in postal charges and the attendant increases in telephone rates. 
They amount to a staggering $350m worth, as the honourable member for Gwydir points out. The 80 per cent increase in postal rates must have an enormously adverse effect on costs and thus on the rate of inflation. With dwindling incomes and a heavy dependence on postal and telephone services, beef producers and those engaged in various other primary industries are apparently to be left to wither on the vine. The outrageous increase in petrol prices must surely hasten that process. The fallacy of the Postal Commission setting out to run its service on the basis of profitability in a country as vast and as sparsely populated as Australia suggests a complete denial of its prime obligation, namely, to establish and maintain an efficient system of communication. The crippling charges can only bring into action the law of diminishing returns. The ever-increasing charges will result in an ever-shrinking proportion of users of the services. This in turn will lead to further withdrawal of services and increased charges ad infinitum. Eventually, the perimeters of settlement within Australia will retreat to the major centres of population. Perhaps it is the Government's intention that we become a food importing nation with possibly New Zealand as the larder of Australia. The country as a whole can only be the poorer for such dereliction. 
The time is long overdue when the postal and telephone services should be seen as a basic service funded from non interest bearing taxation revenue. The impact of interest charges on post office financial viability has been great. An annual interest bill of approximately $ 180m has hamstrung the service. The creation of the Australian Postal Commission will not improve services. Certainly it will enlarge the superstructure but otherwise, generally, it will be engaged in an exercise of horizontal arabesque- much movement to and fro but never upwards. There was a time when the Australian postal services epitomised service. The winged feet of Mercury fairly symbolised the speed, efficiency and reliability of the service. The personnel of the Commission still possess the potential to render such a service but they, in common with the Australian population in the broad, have fallen victim to the insidious propaganda of the modern philosophy that only fools work and that there is no dignity or reward in a fair day's work for a fair day's pay. Admittedly, they find small encouragement for extra effort under the impact of wildly escalating taxation and Government policies which erode ambition by indulging the indolent. 
Before leaving the matter of postal charges I condemn the Government's complicity in having the Commission announce increased charges in advance of the Budget. Notwithstanding the Commission's charter the matter of these service charges is very much an integral part of a government's budgeting. To disclaim direct responsibility for increased charges in this area is to surrender the power of Government to an instrumentality. This, together with the act of conditioning the public to the prospect of a $5,000m deficit and then presenting a lesser evil lays the Government open to a charge of deviousness, a charge which is difficult to resist. On the other hand, the Government must be credited with a boldness and cunning in contriving such a Budget in a situation of self-afflicted adversity. To hinge a Budget on the expectancy that the country will experience a 5 per cent gross domestic product following a reduction of 2 per cent smacks of wild optimism or panic stricken desperation. Recognising that the Treasurer finally conceded in statement number 2:  . . . Australia has been comparatively insulated from the oil price rise; and the downturn in world activity also reflected in only muted fashion in demand for Australian exports . . . 
One can only draw a comparison between the Government and a pugilist, trading well behind on points, who comes out in the last round aware that his only prospect of success is a knockout. As in the case of the present Government, the pugilist often lacks the wit to realise that he is out of his class. The inevitable result for both the pugilist and this Government is that both will go to the canvas. Let there be no doubt. The public of this country is clamouring for the Government's blood. More than a little of the public's anger springs from the deviousness of the Government in producing a Budget cunningly contrived to conceal initially its mischief. For that reason there was an absence of expression of outraged indignation by the public. But in the days following the presentation of the Budget, Budget bugs have been coming out of the woodwork. 
It was not immediately evident that the new taxation scheme tampered with the long standing averaging provisions for primary producers. In fact, it does. Under the existing taxation scheme aU concessional deductions, including those for dependants, were applied to establish net taxable incomes. The new scheme excludes almost all concessional deductions from the determination of net taxable income. This practice lifts the level of income for averaging purposes and accordingly attracts a higher taxation rate in the dollar. Admittedly there is a taxation rebate of $540 for every taxpayer whether or not he or she attempts to make a personal effort towards independence by life assurance, education, medical benefits and other self-help activities. The mischief in such an arrangement is that it constitutes a further erosion of personal initiatives and increases the dependency of the person on government handouts. In the end such a dependency increases the vulnerability to government manipulation of society. 
The Government has declared its intention to discontinue the Regional Employment Development scheme. We have heard in this House on a previous occasion the former Minister for Labor and Immigration take great credit for the improvement in unemployment figures as a result of his scheme. The figure of 60 000 to 70 000 was advanced as the differential between the pre-scheme era and the post-scheme era. It may be reasonably assumed that if the scheme is discontinued the unemployment figures must rise by at least that number, superimposing the already declining situation in employment. Perhaps now that it is the Government's intention to review the nature of its funding, a subsequent scheme may be more beneficial in its application. Perhaps having dissipated some of these funds under a RED scheme proposal it may now direct its energies to funding some of the major projects in this country which are currently moribund for the want of finance. I have in mind, in particular, the Bundaberg irrigation scheme with which the Minister for Northern Australia  (Dr Patterson)  is personally familiar- a scheme which already has a heavy commitment to finance. It is capable of a massive return to the country in primary produce but it is anxiously awaiting financial assistance which could be facilitated by this Government. Quite apart from the question of how far such a scheme might advance, at least we would have the comfort of knowing that it would remain as a memorial of the Government's conscientious and honest intentions to relieve employment within the terms of its responsibility. 
I doubt it, but I hope. In a Budget of $22,000m and with a national debt increase this year of $2,464m, bringing the national debt to a total of $ 17,770m, is it any wonder that the people of Australia are befuddled and confused as to the full purport and application of a monetary system which should be working in conjunction with a conscientious government for man instead of making man a slave to the system? Our problem as a society which is compounded with difficulties for any government is a lack of co-operation and sensitivity of the people of this country. They have fallen victims to the insidious process of recent years by which they have been deluded into believing that in truth they could get something for nothing. It rather surprised and pleased me to hear the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  in the not too distant past refer to the high and excessive expectation of the ordinary Australian who had deluded himself into believing that is was possible to five a champagne existence on a beer income. Now the Government has supported this self-delusion. Until the people of this country, supported by a government recognising the truth of the matter, puts their shoulder to the wheel and accept the fact that we must live within our means, there is little prospect of a happy solution to this problem. I support the amendment to the Budget. 
-For longer than I care to remember spokesmen for the Opposition have been attempting to prevail on the Government to reintroduce the superphosphate bounty. Tonight however I wish to speak specifically of a sorry episode in the history of events. The House is aware that to this time the Industries Assistance Commission has delivered 2 reports to the Federal Governmentone endorsed by one Commissioner and recommending that the bounty be not reinstated and the other endorsed by 2 Comissioners and recommending that the bounty be reinstated. The Cabinet, in general, is opposed to following the majority decision of the Industries Assistance Commission and has postponed making a decision for one month. One of the major objections to reinstating the bounty, apart from the increased demands on the Treasury, is that the biggest users of fertiliser and thus those who stand to gain most are the Victorian Forests Commission, the Edgells company and other large organisations. 
When the first outcry arose from farmers concerning the abolition of the bounty, the Minister for Agriculture,  Senator Wriedt,  invited farmers to submit their arguments for the reestablishment of the bounty to him on the understanding that those cases regarded as deserving by  Senator Wriedt  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  would then be forwarded to the Industries Assistance Commission for closer scrutiny.  Senator Wriedt  issued official directives to all people interested in submitting a case. Those directives stated that cases should be presented only by small, well-defined groups of seriously disadvantaged farmers. It is, of course, difficult for such a group to marshal the reserves, both technical and financial, to present and argue such a case. However, it must be conceded in fairness to  Senator Wriedt  that the services of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics were available. It was relayed through primary industry leaders that the Federal Government flatly refused to listen to arguments across the board from an industry and that the only chance of being heard was to present a case representing a small group. 
Arising from this criteria a group, spearheaded by the Maryborough Branch of the United Graziers ' Association of Queensland, was organised to represent the 8 coastal shires from Bundaberg to Caboolture. This clearly represented a small, well-defined area full of severely disadvantaged farmers. After a lot of effort $5,000 was raised and a written case was prepared for the Industries Assistance Commission. Evidence was verbally presented to the Industries Assistance Commission in Canberra on behalf of the group by  Mr Paul  McGowan, an agricultural consultant of Albury. By the time the Commission was ready to consider the subject of the superphosphate bounty it was obvious that a change in the approach to the question had occurred and that the case prepared specifically for the area was to be absorbed into a general case for the whole of Australia. This action staggered the group which had followed  Senator Wriedt's  instructions to the letter and was completely confident that the case successfully argued that the reinstatement of the superphosphate bounty was not only an economic necessity for the area but also represented a good investment for the nation. To put it mildly, the group found it disconcerting that such a change in approach should quietly occur. The manner in which it received the first indication of the change was unusual and should be recorded. The group received a letter from  Senator Wriedt  stating that he had received its case and had passed it on to the Commission. 
Two days later a telephone call was received from an Industries Assistance Commission official asking whether they were going to present a case. When the official was finally convinced that he had already received it he stated that the case was prepared for  Senator Wriedt  and that one must now be prepared for the Industries Assistance Commission. The Industries Assistance Commission official thereupon was further convinced that the case sent to  Senator Wriedt  was in fact directed towards the Industries Assistance Commission. 
It was pointed out that a small, well-defined group of severely disadvantaged farmers had experienced a great deal of difficulty in preparing and financing one case, let alone another one specifically for the industries Assistance Commission. The official of the Commission agreed finally that a further 9 copies of the existing submission would suffice. However, he did remark that there was no need to restrict the case to a small, well-defined area and to argue in the particular. He said that the group should not have taken any notice of  Senator Wriedt's  directives as they had caused an awful lot of trouble and were not being followed by the Industries Assistance Commission. This was small reward for a group of farmers that had worked hard to argue their case along the lines laid down by the Minister for Agriculture. 
Now they are being led to believe that the bounty might not be restored, partly because several large organisations benefited most. Where has the Government's thoughts for the survival of individual farmers gone? Where are the thoughts of preserving the large investment made in pasture development and production in coastal Queensland gone? Where are the thoughts on future productivity of Australia? Where is the respect of the opinion of the Industries Assistance Commission, a body set up by the Government to advise the Government? Where is the great Australian concept of a fair go? Where in the name of goodness can producers look for relief when the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  who fathered the Industries Assistance Commission, defames two of the Industries Assistance Commissioners by stating in the House that their reports and recommendations were pathetic? The fact that those reports favoured the reinstatement of the bounty would indicate clearly that the Prime Minister's assessment of the worth of the Industries Assistance Commission is based on whether or not it brings in recommendations to his liking. If this be the case, all primary producers might tremble at the prospect of being dealt with in a manner which characterises this Government's attitude to Australia 's greatest industries: That is, the primary industries. 
-My question to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development refers to the present non-availability of finance for the funding of existing homes under the defence service homes scheme. I ask the Minister whether he has given any thought to the serious difficulties confronting both purchasers and vendors where departmental approval had been notified and erroneous assurance given that finance was available. Because of the understandable action of the parties in making follow-on arrangements based on such assurances, a chain of hardship now exists. Will the Minister state whether he proposes any action to afford assistance to those applicants for defence service housing finance for whom approval had been granted prior to the Budget as distinct from fresh applications? 
-The Bill before the House to repeal the Cities Commission Act 1972-73 and thereby incorporate the activities of that Commission within the Department of Urban and Regional Development is not an unreasonable ambition of the Government. The Cities Commission Act, which came into being in October 1973, is a corollary of the National Urban and Regional Development Authority, commonly identified as NURDA which was established in 1972 by a Liberal-Country Party Government. Since that time there has been continuing activity by the body involved in the area of urban and regional development. The need for such activity cannot be questioned when seen against the background of population drift and consequent urban congestion. Projections for the year 2001 suggest a population for Sydney of 4 504 000 and for Melbourne of 4 007 000. These figures demonstrate the magnitude of the task confronting the planners. However, it is essential that the Bureau of the Cities, as the appropriate responsible group within the Department is to be described, will address itself not exclusively to meeting the requirements of cities of the aforementioned dimensions but rather to a more equitable or more even distribution of Australia's population. 
It is generally acknowledged that the larger a city grows the greater the cost of providing and maintaining essential services to communities, both industrial and residential. The current concept of decentralisation favours the creation of growth centres or artificially induced communities as distinct from strengthening existing communities in provincial and rural locations. The economy of establishing homes in the latter is substantial. The cost of land and the provision of essential services may be as little as 25 per cent of comparable costs in major cities. The Bureau's responsibility must lie in advising the Government firstly on the problems of urban and regional development and more importantly on how the Government's aspirations in population distribution may be realised. The Government must recognise that instrumentalities with specialist characteristics are not necessarily those best equipped to make social judgments. 
It is not a new phenomenon for people, being simply and precisely that, to show a disinclination to adjust to proposed plans for a changed way of life. The virtual sterilisation of a number of cities throughout the world which have fallen victim to planners' enthusiasm should stand as a warning to those who believe they have the capacity to solve man's problems. Los Angeles is one city that readily comes to mind. There the planners, in an abortive attempt to solve the city's traffic problems, eventually arrived at a position where a quarter of Los Angeles was under roads or traffic ways of one sort or another. The subsequent smog problem and continuing congestion made that city a less attractive place in which to live than it had been previously. 
It is true that governments face critical gaps in their understanding of when a city is too big. There can be no question of the fact that  If  governments do not pay proper attention to the maintenance of a balanced socio-economic society the problems of the cities will be exacerbated. Current population trends resulting from rural decline should be a grim reminder to the Government that its continuing neglect of nonmetropolitan Australia not only places in danger our future economic wellbeing but imposes a great hardship on those families long established in cities who more and more are required to finance authorities in their losing battle to meet the escalating costs of gross expansion. The Bureau must continually be sensitive to the underlying involvement in urban and regional development in that it should be planned for, guided and accommodated in ways that achieve socially desirable results. In this respect we are only now beginning to try to understand the more basic problems of suburban growth and relationships between metropolitan regions, central cities and regional growth. 
Any set of policies and programs addressed to questions of population distribution and the settlement pattern ought to encompass the full spectrum of settlement. The inter-dependence of activities and components within the total urban system is such that policies directed at one component will eventually create flow-on effects throughout the system. These objectives can be achieved only within a healthy economy. Those charged with the task will be engaging in an exercise in futility if the Government fails in its responsibility to preserve a viable primary industry in all its forms. Despite a degree of intellectual self-delusion on the part of a number of those within the Government who deny the source of all true wealth, that is, the good earth, time will prove that a nation neglects this truism at its peril. 
The Cities Commission has professed an appreciation of the vital need to pursue its objectives in the closest collaboration with all levels of government. Maximum benefit can be achieved only if the individual levels of government are strengthened by wise and just legislation by the Federal Government. The Government must not presume to undermine the traditional functions of local government without due regard to the wishes of the people. The Bureau of the Cities has a heavy responsibility to contemporary Australia. I hope that its way will be smoothed by a government with the wit to realise that little can be achieved in one area if the whole is not sound. The Opposition is not opposed to the Bill but will remain alert to the need in the funding of such programs that the ordinary Australian not be ground down by taxing to a point where his initiative and hopes of reward are eroded. 
-I give notice that at the next sitting I shall move: 
That this House views with total dismay the abuse of the forms of the House of Representatives with regard to its operation and the consequent threat to the principles of free expression, particularly in relation to the following facts: 
The Government since the election of 1972 has applied the closure of debate on an excessive number of occasions- 103 times in 1973, a total of 1 13 times in 1974 and a total of 148 times so far this year- giving a grand total of 364 occasions since the election of the Australian Labor Party to government; 
Whereas the Liberal Party and the Country Party when in government applied the closure during a comparable period of time on 216 occasions- on 56 occasions in 1970, on 92 occasions in 1971 and on 68 occasions in 1972; 
And the Government since the election of 1972 has ruthlessly and callously used the guillotine even though the Liberal and Country Parties in Opposition have said that they are prepared to debate matters out and will agree to extra sittings of this chamber; 
And the Government since the election of 1972 has applied the guillotine on 26 occasions covering 59 Bills while the Liberal and Country Party in a comparable period, 1970 to 1972, applied the guillotine on 4 occasions covering 25 Bills, and with regard to 17 of those Bills the Labor Party when in Opposition did not oppose the application of the guillotine because it supported the Bills; 
And the Government since the election of 1972 has reduced the average number of questions asked at question time to twelve compared to eighteen asked at question time in the 3 years preceding the present Government's election. 
Motion ( by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the honourable member for Wide Bay be not further heard. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Science. In view of the fact that an unannounced cyclonecumalleged storm struck Bundaberg, Maryborough and surrounding localities on Saturday last, can the Minister inform me whether the meteorological radar tracking station at Mount Kanighan, situated between Maryborough and Gympie, is fully automatic. If it is not automatic, was it manned during the weekend of 2 1 and 22 February? If it was not manned, why not? Is not this station part of the eastern radar network of the weather bureau? Does the area covered by this station include the east coast from Gympie to Bundaberg? If the station is not automatic, when will it become so? Can the Minister assure the House that the station, if manually operated, will be fully staffed for the remainder of the cyclone season? 
-Before addressing myself to the Air Navigation (Charges) Bill 1976 I refer briefly to the complaint of the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  the former Minister for Transport, about the imbalance of speakers on the list. I remind him that had his Party not polled so lamentably in the last election it might have been able to provide more speakers. While he has had some latitude in the House to speak at length- indeed he has done so, to some dubious effect- we with a more modest role in this Parliament see this chamber as the venue to provide the opportunity for us periodically to make our modest contributions. The Air Navigation (Charges) Bill is increasing air navigation charges by 1 5 per cent from 1 December 1975. This increase is accepted by the industry with relief if not delight. It has suffered the trauma of 3 years of a previous administration which displayed an almost psychopathic dislike of the aviation industry. I ask the former Minister whether he recalls describing the air travelling public as a mob of silvertails. He may now, in view of his displacement from office - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder!  That is not a point of order. The former Minister will have an opportunity at a later time to make a personal explanation if he feels that he has been misrepresented. 
I intend the ex-Minister no mischief, but it is commonly accepted that the statement alleged was made. If the ex-Minister retracts that statement I am quite prepared to accept his denial. The fact remains that the previous Government proposed to increase air navigation charges by up to 300 per cent. The industry was reeling under the impact of increases which in some cases amounted to up to 400 per cent since 1972. Whilst it may be argued that the percentage content of total costs seemed rather minimal in many cases it constituted the last straw which threatened to break the camel's back and we now find the general aviation industry in particular in rather sorry straits. Under this rather enlightened approach by the new Government which has recognised the need to nurture this general aviation industry of ours and has recognised the important role it plays in our social and economic structure the Government has introduced an air navigation charge increase which is regarded as little more than a token acknowledgement of the Government's responsibility to maintain some awareness of its obligation to the taxpayers to husband the financial resources of this nation. Indeed, it was a previous Liberal-Country Party government that initiated this policy of recovery of expenses in this field to the extent of 80 per cent and it embarked on a program to recover the money by a certain date. However, that Government soon recognised that it was imposing hardships on the industry and therefore in the national interest it was necessary to review the progression of increases and during that Government's incumbency it did maintain a sensitivity to the industry's requirements. 
Because of this proposed 15 per cent increase the industry is now required to find $3.9m a year rather than the $25m which was foreshadowed by the previous Administration. As I say, while the figure constitutes a rise in aircraft operating costs of less than half of one per cent it constitutes a further imposition on an industry- in the general aviation field in particular- which is sorely troubled. The proposed increase advances the percentage of recovery from 54 per cent to 57 per cent in contrast to the recovery rate of 70 per cent which would have existed under the foreshadowed Labor policy. I think it is fairly important to note that a large proportion of the Australian airways system serves to provide a major link with the outside world. As a consequence much of our system is over-supplied for the servicing of the lower volume of internal traffic which tends to peak from time to time diurnally or over longer intervals and it maintains a continuance of attendance of the required staff to service particular aircraft movements. It is not reasonable or practicable to roster shifts to bring on operational staff to deal with these peaks. It is estimated that we have a surplus in operational capacity in the flight service system of possibly 50 per cent but it does not seem practical to make any substantial inroads into that staffing situation. 
It may be argued in view of the need for Australia to maintain contact with the rest of the world-an increasing need to maintain and develop this contact- that the Australian taxpayers should be involved to some substantial extent in maintaining this link with the outside world. We cannot continue to slug the international operators by increasing landing charges with impunity. This invites retaliatory action and indeed over the years there have been expressions of grave discontent by many overseas operators, even leading to the discontinuance of some services. 
The Government's responsibility to fund the cost of low utilisation facilities for the purposes that I have mentioned may be justified to a considerable extent on the basis of maintaining a capacity to deal with national disasters and defence in general. Australia is a country of peculiar if not unique characteristics which puts it at some risk, at some definite handicap in maintaining a communications system under this tyranny of distance that we experience and the sparsity of population. We are faced with a fundamental question of whether we want an aerial network or whether we can discard the concept altogether. I do not think there is anybody in this chamber, anybody in this Parliament or indeed in this country who would seriously argue that we can afford to close down our nation. 
I doubt whether there is an activity which has more dramatically reduced the problems of distance and remoteness in this nation of ours than has the whole aviation industry. It has a commendable record in the field of development and in the area of relieving human distress. I would mention at this point the sterling job done by general aviation during times of national disasters such as our floods, our fires, our cyclones and also mercy flights. This industry is always there when it is most required and when it is required its importance cannot be overstated. I often see a parallel here between those people who tend to knock, using the vernacular, the aviation industry but who clamour for the industry's aid when the need arises and those who use the fairly common practice of being hypercritical of the medical profession until one day they get an agonising pain and the call comes out loud and clear:' doctor, save me'. We have to view this industry fundamentally and consider all the ramifications of an efficient and a viable aviation industry which can cope with the contingencies that may arise. 
Australia's aviation operations are regarded as second to none. The record of Australian aviation is quite superb and this in no small measure is attributable to the efficiency and dedication of those who are part of the flight service establishment. But some misgivings are expressed from time to time at the seeming imbalance between operational and administrative sections of the air transport group. It is contended that the Australian ratio of air transport group employees per general aviation aircraft of 2.78 employees to one registered aircraft in contrast to the American ratio of 0.3 1 employees to each aircraft rather suggests an imbalance which may be based on incompetence or an excess of employees in the administrative area. These figures roughly translated to 3 employees for every aircraft in Australia and one employee for every 3 aircraft in America. It would possibly be imprudent to foreshadow the result of an investigation but I would strongly urge that an investigation be conducted either to lay these rumours as being unfounded or alternatively to assess what economies might be affected in that particular area. 
It is rather encouraging- indeed it is more than encouraging- to see the change in attitude of a government following the steep increases since 1972 and in subsequent years. It has given heart to an industry that very much needed encouragement. One might say that whereas previously there was despair there is now hope and the action of the Government in restricting this increase to a token amount- I would describe it as such- would give the industry some further encouragement to believe that as the economy is restored in this country it can be afforded some relief from these burdens with which it has been afflicted. Some of the burdens are quite outstanding. Honourable members will recall that in the last Budget airport terminal rentals were increased by $5.6m. The hardship in that may be hidden in the magnitude of the amount. When the increased charges are broken down it will be found that the hangar rentals at one Queensland airport rose from $200 to $4,000 a year. 
-From $200 to $4,000 a year. I would like to tell the honourable member for Hume that at another airport they rose from $1,700 to $19,000. As unbelievable as that may sound, at one Western Australian airport the charges rose from $500 to $27,000. These rentals represent increases of up to 2700 per cent. Whilst the previous  speaker  laid heavy emphasis on what appear to be the fractional percentage increases, the sums that I have just outlined indicate clearly that percentages are one thing and money is another. Anybody sustaining the imposition of those increased charges will be substantially short when he comes to balancing the books at the end of the financial year. 
It is fairly important that the Government should remain continually sensitive to the significant role which aviation is playing in this country and should consider particularly the general aviation services in the rural and outback areas which were subjected to an additional difficulty by the previous Government's action in phasing out the subsidies on developmental services. The regular public transport on the main trunk routes currently has the capacity to pass on these increases by way of increased charges on passenger carriage and freight. Of course, those figures flow into the cost of all consumer items in the end and further exacerbate the inflationary problem. But the services off the main trunk routes are heavily dependent on many aviators and people who have a concern in that area of responsibility. Notwithstanding the considerable financial risk, they have endeavoured with a great deal of enthusiasm to maintain the services which are so important to people living out in areas of the country which may seem remote from Queen Street, Collins Street, Pitt Street but which play an increasingly important part in maintaining the basic economic viability of people in rural areas. 
I think we can conclude that the Government has made a genuine effort in this Bill to meet its responsibility to the taxpayer and also to take heed of the urgent necessity to maintain a viable and effective aviation industry in this country. On that basis I have pleasure in supporting the Bill. 
-The House may recall that last week a meteorological phenomenon struck Bundaberg, Maryborough and surrounding areas. I describe it in that fashion because there is some dispute between the Bureau of Meteorology and those who observed the phenomenon at first hand as to whether it was a cyclone or a freak storm. I posed a series of questions to the Minister representing the Minister for Science in the House and received certain answers. The substance of the answers indicated that the warning station on Mount 
Kanighan was not activated because on the judgment of the Bureau, based on the material available to it at the time, no risk existed. I do not mind that at all particularly in view of the fact that when that station was established on 2 December 1974 the most unequivocal assurances were given to the area that the warning network for that section of the coast was complete. A simple minded person might conclude from that statement that it was then free from surprise attack from weather phenomena. Nor do I take exception to the Director of the Bureau rising to defend his organisation. Indeed I applaud him for the restrained and tempered objective assessment of the situation as he saw it. But I feel that the people of the Wide Bay area have a right to be assured whether they are secure in their warning system. 
I think it is fairly pertinent, as a sequel to the events of last week, that I should read to the House a letter which appeared in the  Australian  on Thursday, 26 February, over the signature of Julian Gomersall, describing himself as the Master of the MS  Coral Chief.  As a matter of prudence I have established that that gentleman is indeed the master of the vessel so described. He said in his letter. 
Your readers in the Bundaberg area will be interested to know that the destructive cyclone they had the misfortune to experience on Sunday had been giving those of us at sea off the Queensland coast no end of problems for two days prior to its arrival over the coast. 
Cyclone Beth spent six days in the Coral Sea- 
I mention that Cyclone Beth was being charted for some considerable time over a period of days prior to this report-  moving in a variety of directions, but by Saturday the Meteorological Office should have had sufficient data and reason to put the central and southern Queensland coast on alert. 
This ship (and I am sure several others) was sending weather reports every 3 hours to the Meteorological Office in Melbourne, at their request, from midday Friday. 
Between 9 a.m. and 1 p.m. on Saturday I reported force- 12 winds and a barometric pressure of 992 millibars. The eye of the cyclone- 
This is fairly significant because it has been argued by the Bureau that the phenomenon had none of the physical characteristics of a cyclone nor had established a cyclical motion-  was seen to pass close by in a westerly direction at this time. 
The ship was approximately . . . (30 to 40 miles) north-north-east from Sandy Cape and yet no alert was given other than to describe Beth as a 'tropical low'- some low with force- 12 winds! 
I fail to understand why better use of the information given the Meteorological Office could not have been made. 
That was signed by Julian Gomersall. I consider that the substance of that letter is very pertinent to the Bureau's assessment of the situation, notwithstanding the reports furnished by the master of that vessel, that in the light of the information and observations available to them, and made by them respectively, on their judgment they considered that it was not necessary to man the station. The Director of the bureau said in his response that criticism of the Bureau in the Federal Parliament was completely unjustified. He said it was unjustified to say that there had been an error in judgment in not manning Mount Kanighan. I consider it not unreasonable to ask why when he confirms the fact after the event that there was no suggestion of a set of conditions which would warrant the activation of the station although the report from the master of the vessel would seem to signify completely to the contrary. 
When the station was established in 1974, as I mentioned before, there were positive assurances that it completed the warning network. Its automation is foreshadowed for later in 1976. If it is not to be kept in an active condition at the present time it seems to me that it is tantamount to activating a burglar alarm after you hear noises in the house. It seems that it is not so much a warning station as a device for plotting weather phenomena after their presence is evidenced by personal observation and experience. 
I emphasise that I have not the slightest desire to indulge in anything resembling a witch hunt of our weather bureau. As a farmer and an aviator I have a little to do with contending with the vagaries of the weather and I recognise that forecasting is a difficult enough undertaking at the best of times; but the essential and inevitable consideration in this matter is that it be established whether in truth the people in this section of the coast can rest assured that there is an effective warning station consistent with the terms previously outlined to them or whether there continually exists this rather significant gap in a rather expensive exercise to alert people to impending cyclones. It is my intention only to put this matter on record so that the final statement of the Director of the bureau does not constitute the last word on it. 
-The House has addressed itself at fairly frequent intervals to Bills intended to facilitate the purchase of aircraft by Qantas Airways Ltd, Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia. The first of the two Bills we are debating seeks the approval of Parliament to undertake borrowings overseas for an amount not exceeding the equivalent of US$32.4m or $A25.7m which in turn is to be lent to Qantas to assist in financing the purchase of its twelfth Boeing 747 jet aircraft, spare parts and related equipment. The second Bill is to assist TAA in financing the purchase of its seventh Boeing 727 jet aircraft, spare parts and related equipment. 
I consider it perfectly proper that the Government should involve itself in undertakings of this nature. It is not a financing of the project, as many people believe, so much as a facilitation of it. It ensures that the aviation industry, which is an essential ingredient in the commnications of this country, is not impeded by last minute difficulties in arranging the finance necessary to purchase these aircraft. Furthermore, the assistance to the industry and to the community in general is fairly substantial if by the good offices of the Government these companies are able to secure borrowings on more favourable conditions than might apply otherwise. 
These benefits will be reflected in cost reductions or restraint on costs and this in turn must reflect in fares and all other activities ancillary to these operations. One notes the rather exorbitant charges relating to these aircraft and recognises that with the advance in technology and the increased sophistication of the aircraft it is not unreasonable that the costs increase from time to time and eventually attain levels in the vicinity of $33.9m for a 747 Jumbo and $9.3m for a 200 series 727 aircraft. 
It would be quite excusable and understandable if one noted in passing that in these prices there is the possibility that there may be a factor not unrelated to recent events which have attracted the attention of the world- that is, the tactics adopted by aircraft manufacturers in their urgent desire to attract sales which must of necessity result in a greater cost to the final consumer. Without naming the companies involved I hope that in these transactions the Australian user of the aircraft is not going to have to carry the additional burden of manipulations by companies to enhance their prospects and actual sales realisations. 
These Bills provide for a preliminary commitment only and this is rather commendable. The companies would be at considerable risk if they found difficulties in raising finance at the time of anticipated delivery of the aircraft. In making these arrangements the Government has taken advantage of the regular, almost traditional, participation of the Export-Import Bank of the United States of America to the extent of funding 40 per cent of the purchase price. In turn 40 per cent will be borrowed through established international banking facilities and the final 20 per cent Will be found by Qantas and TAA from their own resources, $ 10.3m in the case of Qantas and $1.8m in the case of TAA. It might be noted in passing that Qantas purchased its seventh and eighth 747 aircraft from its own resources. This action on its part is commendable and demonstrates quite clearly that it does not have total dependence in these matters on government assistance. These aircraft represent good buying. The 747 and the 200 series 727 are both proven aircraft with high reliability and efficiency and good economics. They both have characteristics which result in a considerably lower fuel usage per passenger kilometre than many of their predecessors and in the world today, when there is a serious fuel problem, this contributes rather significantly to overall economics. 
Earlier speakers remarked that in the purchase of these aircraft it is important to give attention to minimising the noise nuisance to the community in general. We suffer the trauma of determining whether we want convenient airports close to centres of population or whether we must respond to the call to locate these airports at remote localities. Whilst affording some relief to the community, considerable inconvenience and loss of time, and therefore money, is occasioned in travelling to the more distant locations. 
I would have hoped, and indeed I still hope, that the advent of these aircraft will enable the airline companies to be a little more effective and realistic in scheduling their flights. It is rather ironic that with the introduction of the jet aircraft we seem to have a leapfrogging of the secondary services. The jet aircraft are introduced to the main coastal trunk routes. We find the ludicrous situation now, apparently brought about by the desire to render the most accommodating services on the main trunk routes, of schedules being arranged so that there is no logical connection between flights from one end of the country to the other. I cite in this instance, as I have rather painfully learned, that on this coming Friday, when normally it would be the time for me to return to my electorate, the first aircraft out of Canberra in the morning arrives in Brisbane, via Sydney, 5 minutes after the northern flight leaves Brisbane for Maryborough. With one airline there is no futher flight until approximately 5 p.m. There is another airlines flight at 1.45 p.m. It seems quite ludicrous that the schedules should be so arranged that the first flight in the day, virtually the only morning flight northbound, should depart from a major airport 5 minutes before the incoming flights arrive. Clearly the supplementary and secondary services tend to be slipping into the role of poor sisters. I would hope, I repeat, that the advent of these aircraft would lead to an improvement in service instead of a deterioration which seems to have been our experience in some cases. 
There is another matter to which I wish to refer and it is this rather common egalitarian attitude today that we should have one-class travel in aircraft. I think that this matter is pertinent to the Bill before the House because of the features of the aircraft concerned- their huge capacity in terms of moving passengers and their other characteristics. I think it is a mistake to conclude that any aircraft is simply a unit with common passenger characteristics or features. I think all honourable members have made frequent use of aircraft and will recognise that in the modern day jet to be seated in the forward area of the aircraft gives a passenger virtually a magic carpet ride. On the other hand, at the rear of the aircraft, and the extreme rear particularly, the comfort, both in noise and vibration, cannot possibly compare with the comfort of the forward portion of the aircraft or in the graduated area, the middle section. It seems to me quite anachronistic in an age when we have established a Trade Practices Commission to ensure that there is value for money and no misrepresentation in transactions, that any airline company should involve itself in negotiations for selling such widely varying seats to customers. Quite clearly the value and quality of those seats has such a disparity that the Trade Practices Commission could well be obliged to consider whether there has been any malpractice in honest trading. 
Certainly we would all have the advantage of being the first ones to an accident. I take the honourable member's point. Another point which relates to the rather high capital cost of these aircraft is the insurance that attaches to them. How very much at the mercy of seemingly unrelated circumstances we are in meeting the fares that are necessary to service these aircraft. The insurance ingredient in costs today is very substantial and has been brought about to a considerable extent by the international conditions reflected in hijacks, sabotage and general misuse of these aircraft. There was a time when these aircraft were at a more modest price level and the loss of an aircraft, which is now such a great capital investment did not have such an impact on the insurance world. 
I think it is also noteworthy to draw attention to some of the costs involved in these aircraft resulting from the advance in technology. Whilst it is not a direct parallel to jet technology, I was rather impressed to stumble on to the figure that the cost of a propellor assembly for a Lockheed Electra aircraft is in excess of $80,000. So it is not difficult to see how the cost is built up to the total figure. But in the matter of insurance and security relating to the operation of these aircraft there is room to effect a worthwhile economy by effective security measures and hopefully in the longer term some reduction of world tensions and dissension that may give these aircraft and, more importantly, their passengers, safe passage through the air. 
I certainly hope that in the not too distant future we will have the happy experience in this House of addressing ourselves to Bills which will facilitate the financing of the Concorde which I am quite sure has a role to play in communications between Australia and the world. I am very pleased to learn from more recent reports that some of the impediments that seem to be firmly established in the path of the operation of the Concorde seem to be moving aside. It affords me great pleasure to support the Bill. 
I have listened with considerable interest over the last few weeks to the debate on the Address-in-Reply to the Speech of  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral at the opening of the first session of the Thirtieth Parliament and on the amendment proposed thereto by the Opposition. It has been, of course, traditionally the stage on which many of the new honourable members have introduced matters of particular interest to them and taken the opportunity to advance argument on those issues. The Opposition, on the other hand, has been inclined to use the avenue as one for the expression of a deep resentment at what it considers to have been the mischief effected on it at a date not too far distant in the past. The historians undoubtedly will record or establish the precise chain of events over those traumatic months. I will not presume to predict the outcome of their inquiry. 
Whilst the Opposition argues at this point that the murder has been done, it would appear that the electorate has not sighted a corpse nor had its nostrils assailed by the odour of decomposition. The result of the election clearly indicates that the electorate is of the mind that a murder has not been done. Unless it should be established that that is not the case, the role for this Government and the people of this country is to settle down and get on with the job. The role of the 
Government is to bring to this country such government as will establish the conditions as are foreshadowed in the Speech by the Governor-General when he said: 
The Government's long term objective is to prevent the growth of centralised bureaucratic domination in Australia, the increasing dependence of individuals on the state. It is to encourage the development of an Australia in which people have maximum freedom and independence to achieve their own goals in life, in ways which they decide. 
Quite clearly, that outlines precisely the objectives that motivate this Government. The undertaking to achieve that laudable state is a very challenging one. The Government has been required to embark upon economic programs which, by their very daring, hold some hazards for the Government as well as the people of Australia. The stringencies that are necessary bring with them some risks. It is not improper for honourable members- indeed it is an obligation on them- to examine closely the merits and demerits of the economic policies of the Government. It is proper because within the field of economics, where even the economists themselves disagree on the best course of action, there is always room for a complementary or opposing point of view. But the supporters of the Government demonstrate a solidarity in giving the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Cabinet the support they need in pursuing their objective. Time will reveal whether the Government is right in its assessments and judgments, and I dread the thought that the reverse might be the case. We will pursue with resolution and determination the objectives we set down for ourselves in the light of the best knowledge and information available to us. We will do so with a deep conviction of the moral issues inherent in our prime objective as laid out by the GovernorGeneral. 
We must be careful in pursuit of these objectives that, in placing emphasis on the economic features, we do not engage in battle and win the battle to find that we are experiencing a Pyrrhic victory; that the cost of the battle is so great that the victory itself is of such doubtful value that we certainly will not be in a position again to engage in battle against forces that may assail this country, be they economic, physical or moral. I mean in particular that, in the process of bringing about in this country the economic state in which people may be able to prosper, live in contentment and be free from bureaucratic intervention and domination, we do not innocently do such injury to those essential to the redevelopment of this country that when that time comes we find ourselves substantially reduced in capacity. I have in mind the beef industry which presents a problem of great magnitude. The Government unquestionably demonstrates its appreciation of the problem and has sympathy with those people who are seriously afflicted. It grapples with the problem. 
But the difficulties are enormous and we have an aversion perhaps to too great a government intervention to prop up any industry which in the long term may have a doubtful viability. I do not think anybody seriously questions the need for the beef industry, or for primary industries for that matter, in a world in which the population is estimated to double by the year 2000 and in which there is currently 3 weeks' reserve of food. It seems intolerable that we should contemplate the abandonment of an industry or to consider it redundant, even though in the short term there may be some complications in relation to marketing outlets and over-supply or under-supply. We have an obligation to these people to see that while we bring about our economic measures, while we achieve our economic goals, they do not expire by the wayside. They are going to be needed to get this country moving again when the economic conditions are established to the extent that that becomes a feasibility. Our measures are of little value, of little point, if they produce a state in which these people meet their demise in the meantime. 
The same can be said in relation to small businesses and modest industries. All of the people who are engaged in these activities and who are clinging by their fingernails, as it were, are limited in time. Time is the very essence of our exercise. The challenge to the Government is that, in the limited time available, it can at least sustain these industries and activities so that when the day comes to redevelop this country, to open up the wonderful bounty of this land, we have the wherewithal, the people, the expertise and the physical capacity to do the job. We witness the rather sad situation where, with a downturn in building and other activities there is a considerable reduction of apprenticeship utilisation. The opportunities for young people to adopt apprenticeships naturally suffer the depression that affects the parent industry. Craftsmen become fewer in numbers as the years go by. We have to be very careful in all we do that we do not totally eliminate these very valuable resources- man himself and his skills. 
There is an inclination to be obsessed with the figures. The deficit hangs over us with all its enormity. It is rather a tragedy that the Government that has come in here with the confidence and expectation of the people should wear this deficit around its neck like an albatross. It is impeded from governing according to its own lights to bring to the people of Australia the benefits of its enlightened policies. It first is required to service this deficit which stands as a monument to or an indictment of the maladministration of our previous administration. I think it might well be argued that the deficit should be left there as an indictment of the previous administration and that this Government should introduce immediately, to the benefit of this country, those policies and measures which it would be free to apply if it did not feel enslaved to the deficit that it inherited. 
In the primary industries we find ourselves in an increasing dilemma. Whilst we recognise the problems of the industries, in responding to the urgent need to get our economy in shape we are at risk that many of the young people in these industries are being denied the opportunity to remain in the industry or to establish themselves in primary industries. These young people will not wait. They are bound to engage themselves in some activity or other. If they cannot find a toehold- niche- in the rural scene they will be required to move to other areas and then in all probability they will never retrace their steps. They are young people with an admirable background in terms of appreciation of the subtleties of rural activity- all facets of the industry in which their parents have been engaged. But for the want of finance, both for capital and for servicing their borrowings at such high interest rates, the prospects of keeping them on the land are exceedingly remote. Notwithstanding our rural reconstruction schemes and similar aids which have been of some considerable value, a great number of young people, because of the sudden downturn in the beef industry, look like being lost to the country forever. These young people I suggest, are the most valuable people that we have in this country and once they have gone they will have gone forever. 
The dairying industry is engaging the attention of the Government. I say without rancour that the tragedy of the dairying industry is that over a period of 20 to 25 years the industry has been done a mischief by its own organisations. Gentlemen of varying talents who have been well motivated but who have a very individual point of view have exerted undue influence from time to time within the industry's organisations and seemingly incidentally have steered the organisations in a direction which does not serve the industry well. The industry now stands at the point of time where it has fast lost its options. Whereas years ago it may have chosen to adopt certain courses of action it now stands at a point where the action could be thrust upon it. I am quite sure that in the ensuing 12 months we will see some massive readjustments within the industry and I would hope even at this late hour that they may be voluntary rather than compulsory adjustments. Yet in view of section 92 of the constitution I can foresee a situation where the establishing marketing structures and equalisation schemes will be cast aside by a wild scramble for lucrative liquid milk markets in the various capitals and the States. 
I should like to mention the Australian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission. Honourable members will recall that there was considerable debate on these matters in the Twenty-ninth Parliament but in general terms the commissions met with the approbation of both sides of the House, with some modest qualification. Parliament was presented with the recommendation of a committee especially established to investigate the merits and demerits of such a proposition. When the Vernon report came before the House and honourable members were influenced by its recommendations the Australian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission were established. At that time, without presuming ultimate judgment on the commissions, I stated in debate in the House that I thought the commissions would engage in what I describe as horizontal arabesque- a great deal of movement from side to side but no movement upward. I suggest that in the ensuing months that rather pessimistic forecast of the day seems to be coming to reality. 
I would suggest, indeed I would argue, that it is the responsibility of this Parliament to attend to what might be described as the basic and fundamental requirements of this nation, and there is no greater requirement within that category than communications, whether postal, telephonic or what-have-you. With the benefit of hindsight, Parliament unquestionably has surrendered a lot of its autonomy, its competence and its authority in these matters to the commissions. The situation is that we have scarcely become accustomed to the increased postal rates and various other charges adjusted at the time of the last Budget, in 1975, before we arc threatened again with substantial increases. This is utterly intolerable and this Parliament finds itself in the position of having to require the commissions not to increase prices and make good their foregone revenue from Consolidated Revenue, yet it has no authority to direct the commissions to regulate their domestic affairs or to adjust their internal structures to effect any cost savings, if indeed that latitude exists. There are many people of the opinion that there is ample latitude within those commissions to effect substantial savings without having to pass into the final cost to the customer all the various machinations which seemed to appeal in the setting up of these commissions. 
I am sure the time will come when Parliament will be required to reassert itself in these matters so that there is some hope for those people who live beyond the perimeter of the philosophy or the charter of the commissions- that the user must pay. In a country as vast as ours where distances are so great, where we are subject to the tyranny of distance, it is an utterly unacceptable proposition that the services of these 2 commissions should be operated on a user-pays basis. It is simply a euphemistic way of saying that people are going to go without if they do not live in a densely populated area. This can go on no longer. 
There is one other matter,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that concerns me greatly. It is the rather topical issue of natural disasters and an insurance scheme to offset the damage and mischief that results from these disasters. There seems to be popular acceptance of the notion that people who suffer an injury or loss in what might be described as a declared natural disaster area are entitled to public charity or to the public purse, through the established government. I, of course, in common with all people, have an instinctive sympathy for people who suffer some human hardship, immediate hardship, in those circumstances. There is a supposition that in the establishment of such an insurance scheme, regardless of where people live or regardless of the natural risks that they may be subject to, the taxpayers of Australia will be required to subsidise it. It is quite clear from established practice in such a scheme that if a personal individual disaster is not accompanied by a similar disaster to a number of other people in the same area, one does not qualify for any benefit from such a scheme. To simplify the matter, any person who is one of a thousand people who lose the roof from their home or suffer some similar misfortune will be the lucky one. But if a person suffers that injury or loss by himself he will miss out. 
To put it in a nutshell, I suggest to the House that there is no greater disaster or hardship than that which befalls an individual, such as Farmer Brown or Shire  Clerk  Smith, who finds himself the sole victim of some meteorological or natural phenomenon. The loss is an individual one. It is a strange thing that if enough people are affected simultaneously they become the objects of public charity and government concern. Yet the individual, even though his individual loss and hardship is just as great, is treated with little concern, if any. Indeed, I suggest that possibly the only way for an individual to become newsworthy is to advertise the fact through the classified advertisements. 
This Government has a job on its hands. Time alone will establish whether it will prove to be up to the job. But at this point of time it has the confidence of the people- a delicate thing and something that must be nurtured and not taken for granted. Without that confidence, every problem that the Government is confronted with will be magnified ten times. People must accept that we are entering a period of relative hardship where some sacrifices will be necessary. Our expectations of society have been elevated to a point of almost complete absurdity. We have to get back to reality and appreciate that it is axiomatic that it is impossible to get something for nothing. We have to work with the prospect of being adequately rewarded for our labours and discard the notion that we can secure the reward before we have laboured. I have much pleasure in supporting the motion. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr MacKellar)  adjourned. 
I address a question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. The Minister will be aware that in the Government's efforts to assist Aborigines by way of housing provisions to assume their right to live as ordinary Australians in Australian communities, cases arise where, by the extreme anti-social behaviour of some Aborigines, considerable distress and hardship are suffered by neighbouring tenants. I ask the Minister whether his Department, when engaging in the commendable exercise of providing homes for Aboriginal people within existing white communities, makes every effort to acquaint the Aboriginal people involved as to their new responsibilitiesin particular, that, having taken up their right to live as ordinary Australians, failure to honour social and civic responsibilities towards their neighbours will expose them to penalties, as would be the case with respect to all other ordinary Australians. 
In view of the number of complaints from elderly people required to complete Medibank claim forms, I ask the Minister for Health whether steps are being taken to replace the existing form with one less complex in detail and less cumbersome in size. 
Is the Minister for Overseas Trade aware of reports of alleged dumping of New Zealand timber on Australian domestic markets? Is he also aware of claims that this New Zealand timber is priced at approximately half the price of timber  ex  some Australian mills and that as a result many of these mills face closure? Will the Minister assure the House that the Government is giving urgent attention to this matter? 
I address my question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is the Minister aware that the Australian Broadcasting Commission talk back session  Morning Extra  invites listeners beyond the Sydney area to ring the station 'reverse charge'? This morning I understand that there were calls from as distant as Renmark, Forbes and Cairns. Having in mind that the ABC recently withdrew several popular programs as an economy measure when previously required by the Government to exercise restraint in spending and that further substantial staff cuts are allegedly contemplated, will the Minister take steps to establish whether the ABC can justify its action in accepting these reverse charge calls for a program of dubious merits? 
Is the Minister for Defence aware of reports that Taiwanese fishing vessels are continually violating Australian territorial waters off the Queensland coast, particularly on reefs off the coastline of Gladstone and adjoining areas? Repeated sightings by Australian charter and fishing vessels in the area confirm the presence of Taiwanese vessels and extensive pollution of islands where they have landed crew members. Will the Minister assure the House that steps will be taken to increase surveillance and eliminate the danger of the introduction of exotic diseases, long term damage to Australian marine resources and ecological damage to the Great Barrier-Reef? 
-The economic statement by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  on behalf of the Government was possibly the most responsible and important single action taken by either a State or Federal Government in many years. Since its coming into office in December there has been a continuing effort by the Government to produce such a positive and worthwhile foundation for good management. The basis has been established for a willing and confident cooperation by all sections of the Australian community to arrest inflation and restore economic and social stability. 
It would be as well, however, to take particular note that the measures announced provide only a foundation for economic recovery. Anybody who sits back now with a sigh of relief, confident that the problem has been solved, is doing himself and the nation a grave disservice. It is more than a little disconcerting to hear from some few, of whom one would expect better, that there is no bounty for them in the economic policy. If they expected an outpouring of governmental munificence as they experienced during the last 3 years of the previous Administration, they clearly have not grasped the magnitude of the problems that beset Australia. This is not the time for the maintenance of expectations at an unrealistic level, nor the perpetuation of the notion that the Government should provide, without limit, the requirements of a society which with increasing emphasis demonstrated its abandonment of the work ethic. 
What this economic policy has done is give people who are of a mind to help themselves the opportunity to take part in getting this country back where it belongs- to a position among nations where a country of incredibly rich resources, free from significant ethnic or cultural vicissitudes, should belong. Taxation indexation, to a sweeping extent, has remedied what for long stood as a indictment of governments for their immorality in profiting by inflation at the taxpayers' expense. In the incidental acquisition by government of thousands of millions of dollars in income tax revenue resulting from the movement of taxpayers into higher income brackets under the impetus of inflation, for a period the previous Administration was able to embark on ambitious open-ended programs. Many of these programs were laudable in concept, but ignored the fact that a government is required to live within its means. 
The massive transfer of funds to the public sector during a period of declining gross domestic product produced the inevitable result, and the Government now faces the herculean task of restoring the economy. This economic policy as delivered by the Treasurer paves the way. Taxation indexation must be seen as a device to bring justice to taxpayers in an inflationary situation. Therefore final control of inflation will be heralded by a reduction in, or abolition of, the need to index on other than virtually a token basis. Wage earners will be encouraged in their efforts to work their way out of their dilemma by the knowledge that in future tax increases can be made only by legislation. Governments will be required to introduce taxation increase Bills into the Parliament where they will be subjected to debate and public scrutiny. The Government will be required in the public forum to justify any intention it may have to increase taxation. The adjustment of income brackets by 13 per cent will substantially offset the most recent effects of inflation on tax rates. In addition, the $540 general rebate introduced last year increases automatically to $610, whilst rebates for dependent relatives will also be indexed from $200 to $226. 
The Government's approach to Medibank is a bold attempt to come to terms with a monster which, left unattended, could consume the economy and exacerbate the problems of any Australian Government long into the future. There may be those sections of the community which still insist that Medibank should be totally free. But on serious thought it must be obvious that the Government, by its savings of $800m on projected expenditure, has demonstrated that nothing is free. Under ordinary circumstances the people of this country one way or another finance the expenditures of the Government. If we are to move into schemes of national compensation and national disaster insurance it must be abundantly clear that as a nation we must earn the financial resources to fund such programs. This will call for a maximum effort from all sectors of the community, a willingness on the part of trade unions to respond to Government overtures directed towards accord and increased prospects for employees to derive a fair share from such prosperity as the Government's policies may attain. The employer sector carries an equally heavy responsibility in taking up the challenge of special investment allowance provisions provided by the Government at a cost of an estimated $500m forgone taxation revenue. 

 Mr MILLAR As the honourable member for Darling Downs indicates, this provision should and, I have no doubt, will provide many employment opportunities for those otherwise without prospects. The Government's major drive into the areas of poverty through tax indexation and family allowances is almost breathtaking in its magnitude. Members of the Opposition in speaking in this debate have stated that they in government would have introduced such measures. Whether or not this would have been done is inconsequential. The fact remains that the Liberal-National Country Party Government has implemented the measures, and general acclaim has been its due. 
The extent of the measures in substantially meeting the problems of low income and disadvantaged Australians stunned those who regarded the present Government as one not so intensely concerned with those groups. The estimate of $ 1,020m in family allowances for the ensuing year is clear proof of the Government 's sincerity. In future every mother will be able to plan for her family's welfare, more confident in the knowledge that a Reserve Bank cheque will be paid direct to her in accordance with the scale. A family with 4 children will now receive $20.50 a week under the new scheme as against $5.75 under the old. These payments will not be taxable and will be without means test. 
In its efforts to service the huge overdraft inherited on coming to office, the Government has cut forward estimates of expenditure for 1976-77 by $2,600m. It was unavoidable that some programs have had to be curtailed. Establishing priorities occasioned more than a little anguish but unquestionably at the first opportunity, consistent with an improved economy, those programs of merit may well be reactivated. At such time the new federalism will determine future roles and responsibilities. In conclusion, I express the hope that, whilst the Government must pursue its policies with determination and confidence, it will not prove so inflexible as not to consider alternative proposals for economic management. We witnessed benefits accruing to a hard pressed motor industry by graduated relief from sales tax over a period. There are many attracted to the proposition that we will have to step outside orthodox economic measures to break the nexus. 
There are vast problems confronting those involved in producing Australia's primary wealth. Unless those problems are readily resolved, many of the options open to this country to restore economic and social stability will close. However, in the meantime the Government deserves credit for diligent application since coming to office and for producing this policy indicative of a sense of responsibility to all Australians. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Natural Resources. He will be aware of the difficulties being experienced by many towns and cities due to very heavy increases in the cost of producing town gas since the onset of the oil crisis. In view of the excessive cost of feed stocks for gas making, has the Government given any consideration to ways of relieving the financial burden being placed on gas authorities and consumers in centres where natural gas is not available? 
-As an honourable member on the Government side I wholeheartedly support these 2 Bills, the Civil Aviation (Carriers' Liability) Bill and the Air Accidents (Commonwealth Government Liability) Bill. I support them on several grounds. I support them because they ensure that the present liability for airline and charter operators in domestic services is brought up to the liability of our international carrier, Qantas Airways Ltd, in the event of accident. Under the present Act liability is restricted to $30,000 for the death or injury to each passenger on an Australian domestic airline. This legislation brings the liability up to $45,000 for death or injury. The Bill is basically a machinery measure. It brings into line the rates of liability with those of general international carriers throughout the world. It ensures that international and domestic air carriers are automatically liable for damages without the need for the injured party to prove negligence on the part of the carrier. 
The Bill lays down limits for the level of liability. I understand that all major domestic carriers agree that the level of liability last set in 1970 should be increased. The increase in the premium involved in raising the level of liability is acceptable and capable of being borne by the airlines concerned. With regard to carriers covered by Commonwealth Liability, the Air Accidents (Commonwealth Government Liability) Bill brings the level of liability into line with the Civil Aviation (Carriers' Liability) Bill. I believe that that is fair and just. Anyone travelling under Commonwealth auspices should have the same rights and privileges in relation to seeking som.pensation by themselves or their families. The new levels of liability will come into effect from 1 July and will apply to international aircraft operations, to Trans Australia Airlines operations and other operations to and from the territories and interstate operations by other carriers. Other operations are subject to State legislation but I am quite sure that intrastate operations will be covered by the same level of liability by complementary State legislation. 
This Bill gives me an opportunity briefly to talk about the levels of air safety within Australia. Before continuing I should stress to the House that I am a person who has always been interested not only in commercial aviation but also in general aviation. Some members of the House would know that I often privately fly. Many members of the House would also know that I have expressed concern about accidents in relation to flying. Australia, as a nation, has one of the lowest, if not the lowest level - 
Debate interrupted. 
As I was saying, Australia, as a nation has one of the lowest, if not the lowest levels of air accident fatalities in the world. It is rather significant that the report of the International Civil Aviation Organisation shows that the passenger fatalities per 100 million passenger kilometres flown in Australia is 0.0 1 in contrast to the international figure of 0. 19 In other words, the risk in this country is one-nineteenth of the risk attached to flying in other countries. That is a very comforting figure. This record is largely attributable to the high standards of flight training that apply in Australia. Any lowering in these standards no one in the aviation industry would tolerate. I call on the Minister to state unequivocally that there will be no lessening of these standards. There have been accidents in the past but let me point out to the community at large that I understand that on general average a person has approximately 1000 times greater chance of being killed in a road accident than he has in an air accident by a commercial carrier. This largely is a reflection on the high standards of air safety in Australia. 
However there are problems of air safety that deeply concern me. These relate to the quality of infrastructure support at major airports in Australia as a result of the former Government's policy measures. It is rather sad to relate the fact that many airports in Australia capable of taking large aircraft in past years at late hours no longer have that capacity because of noise abatement procedures. This is because essential staff such as air traffic controllers accordinagly have been withdrawn. Other problems that have developed have been the lessening in air safety precaution standards. For instance in my electorate of Wide Bay, the former Minister for Transport threatened to withdraw the emergency fire brigade service which existed to protect the movement of commercial aircraft at Maryborough. This meant that if a commercial airliner came to land at Maryborough and met with some misadventure and burst into flames, the capacity of the ground staff at Maryborough to put out the fire on the airliner would be negligible. As a pilot, as a commuter, as a concerned citizen, I find this absolutely horrendous. Maryborough is a large and busy airport. The former Government wanted to withdraw essential fire control services for ensuring safety, and protecting human life. I believe that in this debate the Minister must give the House an assurance that all decisions of the former Government relating to air safety will be reviewed and that there will be a further review in favour of improving not only airport safety standards but also in ensuring that there is vigilance in air safety standards. Such overall vigilance will ensure that the needs of this legislation will be kept to the basic minimum. I support the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I briefly join this debate on the Bill designed to amend the Crimes (Aircraft) Act. This Bui clearly is one that demonstrates a practical and reasonable approach to a problem that has concerned our legislators. We have been involved in a situation where from time to time we have been required to use a sledge hammer to crack a walnut. The offences that are listed as relating to this type of crime are such that many innocent people or unthinking people could be involved in a contravention of the Act. The Act, as it stands, requires the processes of the law to be placed before a judge and a jury. This often contributes to a somewhat farcical situation. The Act, as it currently stands, establishes an offence as having been a contravention of the Act by carrying or placing dangerous goods on an aircraft, of delivering dangerous goods to a person for the purposes of being placed on an aircraft, etc., etc. 
No doubt many honourable members who are in the habit of travelling on aircraft fairly fre- quently will have observed instances where in e letter of the law, these particular provisions may have been contravened. It is not necessary to give effect to some measure that could damage an aircraft structurally to place it in great peril. There is ample scope for a deranged passenger or a passenger with malicious intent to imperil the aircraft just as if he had placed in luggage some explosive charge which would perhaps achieve a more dramatic and immediate result. Indeed, since travelling economy class, as is the fashion of parliamentarians today, I have become acutely aware of some of the potentially lethal articles that are carried on aircraft. I feel that the aircraft- certainly the passengers- are constantly under threat from anything from did.geridoos to French umbrellas which, in the hands of a person deranged or with malicious intent, could imperil the welfare of the aircraft. The safety of the aircraft is in the hands of the pilot in command. If any device, no matter how humble in its domestic character could be used for purposes other than that for which it was designed, the aircraft could certainly be at grave risk. These amendments will ensure that the circumstances of the contravention will not necessarily automatically come within the ambit of the statutes as previously existing in the Crimes Aircraft Act of 1963-73. 
One attraction of the Bill is that it ensures that an accused person will retain his right to insist on a trial by his peers for any offence against this Act. The consent of the Attorney-General will be required for any prosecution instituted for an offence against this Act. This will ensure that there is adequate control of proceedings arising out of any infringement of the Act's provisions. There are many situations that could bring the provisions of this Act to bear. It should not be construed as a retreat from those very stringent safety precautions that are applied to travel by the various airlines of this country and throughout the world. 
The accident record and the safety element in travelling by regular public transport in this country are matters of considerable renown. This Bill certainly does not suggest that we are retreating from that very important consideration of the wellbeing of people who travel by aircraft. I can imagine a no more horrendous crime than that perpetrated by a person who deliberately puts at risk the lives of innocent travellers by some devious plan to bring about the misadventure of an aircraft. The Bill is a very practical approach to a problem. I am sure that any thinking member would find little occasion on which to differ on the thrust of the Bill. I must confess that I have a great deal of sensitivity in response to the suggestion of the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  that the sentence attached to a crime under the Act- 7 years- seems to be quite inadequate in terms of the horrendous nature of the crimes that people are inclined to perpetrate from time to time. I have great pleasure in supporting the Bill. 

 Mr ELLICOTT (Wentworth) AttorneyGeneral) (2.39)- The honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney)  raised a point with which the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  agreed, that I should look at the principal Act with a view to making sure that all the provisions of the State law relating to the taking of a plea of guilty were incorporated. 
The honourable member for Hunter was referring to section 5 1a of the Justices Act. Certainly I will take that into account. I had thought that the section we are inserting in the Act did incorporate it, because it will be recalled that it says:  . . . may be dealt with in accordance with that law.  'That law' would include all the provisions of that law and would include, one would hope, section 51a; but I will have a closer look at it. I had thought it did incorporate it. If I come to the view that it does not, we can take it into account in any future amendment of the Act. 
The honourable member for Hunter referred to the term of imprisonment. I refer him to sections 14 and 15. They deal with what might be called the more horrendous criminal acts in relation to aircraft. Section 14 states: 
A person shall not by an Act or thing capable of prejudicing the safe operation of an aircraft to which this Part applies with intent to prejudice that safe operation. 
Penalty: Imprisonment for fourteen years. 
Section 1 8 provides for imprisonment for 7 years. It was put in the Act in 1 963. This type of offence has become much more prevalent since 1963. It is a matter I am quite happy to look at. The honourable member mentioned parole. I would only say to him- I am sure he knows this- that as Attorney-General I am the parole officer for all Commonwealth prisoners. That is the role of the Attorney-General. I have to make all recommendations to the Governor-General on the paroling of Commonwealth prisoners, including Territory prisoners. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation aware that the policy announced on 20 May 1976 concerning the admission of repatriation patients to nonrepatriation hospitals, particularly in country areas, has caused considerable problems in its application and has created widespread concern among veterans and veterans' organisations? Will the Minister explain to the House the circumstances relating to the policy? 
-It would be more than surprising if a Budget introduced in this Parliament failed to arouse the ire of the Opposition of the day, and in most cases the indignation of a long suffering public convinced that all governments are ruthlessly dedicated to the imposition of greater taxes to offset their own ineptitude. It is more than significant that on this occasion, despite the hollow protests of the Opposition, the people of Australia recognise the Budget as a document carrying the hallmarks of responsible and efficient management. 
The people of Australia on 13 December 1975 demonstrated quite clearly their apprehension of the fiscal irresponsibility of the previous Administration. They are now encouraged by the ring of credibility in the Government's economics policy to believe that the stage has been set for the sure, albeit initially slow, recovery of our economy. If the stage has been so set it must necessarily follow that all Australians are players, and therein rests the eventual success or failure not only of this Government but of the future of this Australia as we know it. There comes a time when, in adversity, the gap between government and the people narrows. Such a situation may be seen in the experience of the 
United Kingdom where, notwithstanding emphatic warnings by governments over a period of years, the various factions blindly pursued their respective goals and that once great nation was brought to its knees. Only now that a cautious spirit of co-operation with the Government by both labour and capital has emerged can the seeds of recovery, sown and germinated by government policy, grow and flourish to yield some sort of a harvest for the nation as a whole. It must be conceded that labour, the unions in the United Kingdom, did not arrive at that attitude without considerable trauma. The United Kingdom trade unionists are regarded as the great traditionalists of the trade union movement. It must convey a message to the members of the trade unions in this country of the seriousness of the situation which confronted the United Kingdom and which must inevitably afflict this country if some measures are not adopted to withstand its evil influence. 
I was fortunate enough as a member of a parliamentary delegation recently to visit South East Asia. I could not help but be impressed, indeed awed, by the extent of the off-shore activities. Wherever we went through Indonesia, Singapore, Malaysia and what we knew once as Borneo, now Sarawak, there was ample evidence of industrial activity. There was more than a surprise to find not only multi-nationals and companies from all over the world but a considerable number of Australian companies engaged in industry in those areas. They were not exploiting intensive labour operations in most cases. They were highly efficient and most automated industries but they were the beneficiaries of government policies in those countries which gave them pioneer status and tax holidays from which clearly they would benefit. 
It is no good here in Australia arguing that those practices are grossly unfair and they would only undermine our standard of living. We have to face the fact that this is the world in which we live. If the Opposition wants to insist that many of our economic vicissitudes are a logical onflow of international economics it must necessarily follow that we cannot insulate ourselves against those same forces by maintaining an insular nation and economy so that we maintain an artificial standard of living. This clearly cannot continue. The unions must recognise that they have a major contribution to make to the economic wellbeing of this country. The message is clear. This country must work its way out of its dilemma. Private enterprise must respond to the challenge in a climate where they can be assured of reasonable reward for initiative, energy and attendant risks, continually mindful that private enterprise is not to be construed as a licence to rape, ravage or in any way to unfairly exploit. Likewise, the wage earner must recognise that the best wage conditions on earth are worthless if one does not have a job. There must as a result be a closer involvement between management and the work force from which a fuller understanding of each other's role might arise, and thereby an acceptance of their mutual dependence. 
In short, we must urgently address ourselves to the question of what sort of country we wish Australia to be- whether with a national spirit we set out to develop and manage our great natural resources, both men and material, so that all Australians will get a fair share or persist in our folly of funding our extravagance from capital instead of from earnings. In this respect it is noteworthy that of an estimated outlay for 1976-77 totalling $24,320.9m almost half is made up by health expenditure of $2,908.7m, education $2,204m, social security and welfare $6,187.1m- and I might mention that constitutes 25 per cent of total outlays- and culture and recreation $253. 9m. These fundings, admirable as they are in intent and generally accepted by most as being a legitimate responsibility of government, emphasise the need to sustain a level of productivity. If we delude ourselves that we can go on living a champagne existence on a beer income there can be only one result: The burden will become too great and the nation will be bankrupted. 
It is rather significant that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made a statement today regarding the establishment of a committee to review secondary and tertiary education to ascertain whether in actual fact the nations resources are being profitably directed in those fields. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  responded to the effect that education was a cause in its own right, that it was justified in itself. To a certain extent that is true, but it must be equally clear that if we pursue a policy of education for itself without due regard to the eventual absorption and use of the talents so acquired by those engaged in it without concurrent attention to the economy we will be in the extraordinary position of having the best educated and, under our health programs, the most healthy and most cultured unemployed in our history. 
It is true that most people subscribe to the notion that education must be paramount and that is perhaps a commendable attitude. It took its rise from the 1950s when the Russians were demonstrating that they could put a satellite in space. We recognised in the Western world that we were monumentally deficient in the educational field and that we urgently needed physicists and the like, so we embarked on this crash education program which has developed on a broader base in the meantime, so much so that we have imbued our young with the idea that if they do not proceed to tertiary education they are either derelict or a failure in some way or another. At the same time we encourage them to believe that having taken advantage of this great opportunity provided for them by the taxpayer the world owes them a living. So we reap the legacy of such a policy and the legacy leaves a lot to be desired. We see many of our young students who, pressed by this philosophy to go on to tertiary education, are proving to be lamentably inadequate and they fall by the wayside and we inherit another crop of disenchanted young people who adopt extreme social practices to escape the reality of their own failures. From the other end, those who are successful come out into a world in which there is no room for their talents, unless, of course, in another exercise of horizontal arabesque we reclassify positions progressively downwards so that eventually we insist on the office boy having an arts degree. This is only an exercise in self delusion. 
Our welfare is a matter of considerable concern. It is rather ironic that all governments meeting the social attitudes of the day, insisting that more and more money be made available to relieve the distress of those disadvantaged sections of our community, find too often that when we move out to remove the blot on our society we often find that the blot grows larger. It is one of the perverse characteristics of human nature that if the responsibility of fending for themselves is removed or even alleviated they tend to be less energetic in fending for themselves. That is not a blanket condemnation of welfare programs. Clearly, any government sensitive to the people it represents must attend to these problems, but all too often we overrun ourselves with our enthusiasm and create more problems that we solve. There is perhaps a parallel to be seen in the treatment of government funding over several years in the field of Aboriginal welfare where all too often we find that, notwithstanding the expenditure of unbelievable sums of money, the immediate problems of the ultimate beneficiaries appear unrelieved. There must be some degree of restraint and objectivity in these programs to ensure that eventually when we look back upon our works we do not come to the conclusion that we have not been wisely or gainfully employed. 
This country is unbelievably fortunate in the extent of its natural wealth in primary industry and minerals. It is essential that those engaged in such production be given a fair share of the wealth so generated. I might mention in slight digression that the present position wherein a beef producer receives only 30c of the customer's dollar compared with 70c some few years ago illustrates quite graphically the plight of many primary producers. Add to this the savage increase in producers' costs and it must become clear to all how slender has become the thread on which the wellbeing of many of our primary producers hangs. The Government has made available in this Budget $15m for further carry-on loans to beef producers. The Commonwealth Government will match approvals by the States on a $ 1 for $ 1 basis. Whilst such assistance is of value to producers it cannot be seen as a solution to their problems. Until inflation is arrested and costs no longer escalate there can be no future for primary producers and those servicing them in an area equivalent to three-quarters of Australia. 
In speaking to the Budget Opposition supporters have protested against the Medibank levy, suggesting that the levy is nothing more than another form of taxation rake-off. It seems to me that they conveniently overlook the fact that the levy is a charge for a specific service, that is, health insurance. Not to pay a premium for health insurance would suggest that one should not be required to pay a premium for fire insurance, car insurance or for that matter any of the standard forms of insurance. It should also be noted that the Budget provision for Medibank of $l,612m is offset by only $250m from levy proceeds in 1976-77. So that should dispell the notion that the taxpayer in general is not going to pick up the greater portion of financial responsibility for Medibank. The levy payers are by no stretch of the imagination meeting the cost of the scheme. Low income earners, together with most pensioners and repatriation beneficiaries, will be exempted from paying the levy. The simple fact is that society, through the government of the day, elected to establish a universal health scheme and the present Government, through its pre-election undertaking not to dismantle the scheme, has effected such modification so as to ensure that the scheme will not consume the economy as has been the case in other countries. 
Queensland had no need of Medibank but it has been required to fall into line. A disturbing feature of the arrangements is that in the States of greater area many people do not have reasonable access to medical facilities. They will, of course, be required to pay the levy, highlighting once again the disadvantages under which people living out of the great cities must compete for consideration from an often unmindful society. The Government must remain alert to excessive and damaging trends within Medibank and must be prepared from time to time to make such changes as are necessary to keep the scheme within reason. The recent statements of the honourable member for Tangey  (Dr Richardson)  sound a warning to those who unreservedly support an open-ended health scheme. The honourable member's suggestions to place restraint on indiscriminate and improper use of Medibank are well worth consideration. 
In the Budget the Government has at last brought some relief to private companies and small businesses. The Government has undertaken to ease the distribution requirements for private companies under Division 7 of the Income Tax Assessment Act. In that regard, the needs of small businesses were particularly in mind. From now, in respect of distributions of taxable incomes for the year 1975-76 and subsequent years, the retention allowance for trade or business income will be increased from 50 per cent to 60 per cent. This will have the effect of increasing by one-fifth the amount of after tax income which a private company can retain without incurring Division 7 tax. 
I would say, while speaking of small business, that not all of the problems of small business are attributable to government- to any government. With changing techniques and practices within the field of commerce, many small businesses, particularly in rural and provincial areas, are reeling under the impact. With the introduction of the practice of bulk buying, many of these small businesses, particularly country stores, are greatly handicapped. They require to gain any son of a concession in price to purchase quantities of goods that will remain on their shelves for a prolonged period. Even by buying in that way, they do not receive discounts as favourable as those received by the larger companies and businesses in the metropolitan areas. While these commodities remain on the shelves, the overdrafts which financed the purchases must be serviced by the payment of an interest rate which is all too high. The Government has indicated its resolve to reduce interest rates at the earliest possible moment without unduly exacerbating the inflationary effects. The Government also in relation to business has introduced a valuation on trading stock which will be of considerable value to business. 
The Government has maintained its overseas aid- in fact, it has increased it by 14.6 per cent in nominal value- at $400m. This aid represents a commitment by Australia, one that is endorsed by most right-thinking people. Again, referring to my recent visit to South-East Asia, I had ample opportunity to review these foreign aid activities. They are very much appreciated in the recipient countries and I am sure that they will make a major contribution towards goodwill that is so essential between neighbouring countries. 
Pensioners have been assured that the Government automatically will tie their pension rates to increases in the consumer price index. They will be freed from the anxiety of wondering whether the increase in inflation, in the meantime, will exceed their spending capacity. Also, pensioners have been relieved of the property means test. This will give them additional security. Handicapped persons have been recognised in the Budget by the provision of funding amounting to $30m. The handicapped children's allowance has been increased from $10 a week to $15 a week. The Government has embarked on a policy designed to ensure that the taxpayer retains a greater proportion of his earnings and also that he will have the option to determine how those earnings will be spent. In that respect, tax indexation- a major achievement of this Government- has the effect of surrendering, virtually, revenue amounting to $ 1,050m which would have been collected by way of taxation. That money remains with the taxpayer. 
As further evidence of the Government's resolve in the direction of taxation, I point out that for the first time in very many years there has been no increase in the tax on cigarettes, beer, spirits and petrol which traditionally have provided an excellent revenue harvest for sorely pressed governments.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  in conclusion I say that it is encouraging to all right thinking Australians that having set out to build a better Australia, our defence funding has been increased by 1 7 per cent to ensure that what we have we hold. 
-This Bill, which seeks to amend the Telecommunications Act 1975, is designed to facilitate the borrowing of $200m, although that amount is not specified within the Bill, for the purpose of funding the Telecommunications Commission's capital expenditures for the ensuing year. Under the provisions of the Acts relating to the establishment of this Commission and the Postal Commission, these capital expenditures, which amount to $9 10m, would normally have been funded by a 50 per cent budgetary funding from the Government and a 50 per cent funding from the Commission's own resources. On this occasion the Commission has elected to seek 22 per cent of its capital expenditure in the way of borrowings from the domestic capital market as against a borrowing of 24 per cent from the Treasury. 
It has been asked why this Bill is necessary. One of the important points in that respect is that it will ensure that the Commission has equality with other semi-governmental authorities borrowing on the same market. Some concern was expressed that subscribers to the Commission's securities could be liable to pay stamp duty, which would not be the case with other State authorities, and that therefore its attempts to borrow money would be seriously impeded. I am mindful that we are moving another step forward in the evolution of this Commission and the Postal Commission. It was not always a practice to borrow money in this manner or even to go onto the market and pay interest on borrowings for the purpose of providing such basic services to the community. 
Until 1959, as the House may recall, postal communications were considered to be a national undertaking whose capital cost was spread over the whole community. The actual users of the services were required to meet only the operating expenses of the postal, telegraphic and telephone services. There was a policy change in 1959 which required the Australian Post Office to be debited in the future with interest on its past and future capital expenditure. That charge, plus its operating costs, had to be met in increased charges to the users of these services. On this point, I am more than impressed with the fact that this borrowing of $200m in a year will attract interest payments of $20m, in round figures. One cannot help but speculate on how many services this amount may have provided for Australians, be they in cities or rural and distant areas. It seems that we are persisting with a policy that increases the problems either for the Government itself under the old establishment or for the Commissions themselves under the new establishment to get the greatest value out of each dollar. 
Under the old arrangement such lendings from the Government did not attract interest. The change in the situation was strongly attacked as being inequitable because the capital expenditure on telecommunications was budgeted and paid for from general taxes taken into Consolidated Revenue. It did not come from public borrowings through Commonwealth loan funds upon which interest and principal repayments had to be made to the private lenders. Hence a debit to the Post Office in those days of interest on such capital outlays would be to levy a tax upon a tax and thus cause the Australian taxpayer to pay the sum twice. That was a regressive change since charges imposed according to usage tend to minimise the usage where the interests of the community required it to be encouraged. 
These borrowings again will perpetuate the same process. It will be reflected in the cost of the service to the end user. As the costs escalate, so are the users discouraged from using the services as much as they ordinarily might be expected to do. This raises the question of whether this is a basic service to the community. As a matter of policy, the Government should accept this as being a commitment to Australia, just as it does with the funds for defence, which are unproductive in themselves in their revenue earning capacity. The policy of expecting the user alone to pay all costs requires that further increases be made progressively to the shrinking proportion of remaining customers. These increases in turn further restrict usage and complete a vicious circle. 
This Bill is almost a machinery measure. The die has been cast. It is the intention of the Commission to borrow these moneys and it has the approval of the Government so to do to the extent that it guarantees security for those who may have a mind to invest in this loan. The interest rates will range from 9.7 per cent per annum for 4 years to 10.6 per cent per annum for 20 years. I certainly support the Bill and oppose the amendment moved by the Opposition. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Health. Is it a fact that under the new health insurance arrangements a wife who has sufficient income to prevent her husband from claiming any tax rebate but insufficient income to make her subject to the Medibank levy will not be entitled to Medibank benefits? Is it also true that under the tax rules a husband who cannot claim his wife as a dependant is forced to pay health insurance for her if he takes out private insurance? 
-In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Transport I shall first comment on the remarks of the exMinister for Transport and honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  regarding the recommendation that a transport accident investigation body should be established. I have no doubt that the honourable member is well motivated in his suggestion. But after listening to the detailing of a number of tragic and unfortunate aircraft accidents I am moved to feel that many people who have occasion to work in the industry or who utilise the facilities of the industry may have some apprehension as to their security and wellbeing. I suggest that we need not so much a body to establish why accidents happen but to establish some machinery to ensure that they do not happen. 
I ask the honourable member to wait a moment. The Australian aviation industry has a record second to none in this field. There is a most efficient organisation designed to ensure the wellbeing of all those who travel. This applies particularly to the aviation industry. There is a system of air navigation orders and aeronautical information circulars which should ensure that no aircraft takes to the air unless it is in an airworthy condition. Tragically, in the main the accidents which occur are the result of pilot error. The manipulative skill attached to flying an aircraft is easily determined but the quality of airmanship is a much more intangible thing. Making the decision when to turn back or when to press on and when to persist with an approach for landing should be done in accordance with the criteria as laid down by the aviation authorities or transport group authorities and, if properly adhered to, should ensure that an aircraft will not meet with misadventure. 
The honourable member referred to 2 accidents. To the best of my recollection there is no mystery about them as the causes of the accidents were determined. In the case of the Viscount aircraft which tragically crashed at Winton, it is my best recollection that the accident occurred because a fire broke out in the wing and destroyed the mainspar. This was occasioned by a piece of ancillary equipment which had not been serviced as it should have been and as the air navigation orders required it to be. It set up a localised fire which spread and burnt out the mainspar. 
That accident should not have occurred. The honourable member referred to the accident between a Boeing 727 aircraft and a Canadian aircraft. They collided while the 727 was in the process of taking off and the Canadian aircraft was taxi-ing. To the best of my recollection it was established that the pilot in command of the Canadian aircraft had blundered in his taxi-ing pattern simply because the runway taxiing procedures had been changed since he was last at the airport. He stumbled on to a taxiway notwithstanding that the correct clearance had been given to him. Relying on his past experience on that airfield he proceeded on the wrong taxiway. There is no mystery about these accidents. In that respect the establishment of a transport accident investigation body will serve no useful purpose. Certainly, while it would be handy to have that body for retrospective guidance, it involves further expenditure and a further burden on the resources of Australia. It falls back on to the Government to make judgments in this matter in light of all the pressing considerations for other demands. When we consider that 25 per cent of our Budget goes to health and welfare and that another $2,000m goes to education- all these areas are pressing, probably quite rightly, for more and more Government expenditure- we must be conscious of some responsibility for austerity or certainly there must be a lack of extravagance in doing ail that we would like to do. 
The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  put a case which is not unfamiliar to all of us. He suggested that the expenditure of another $130m would be a bargain. He detailed how we would gain. But this presupposes that we have the capacity in the first place to fund the bargain. Anybody who has gone to Singapore or Hong Kong knows how one can go broke buying bargains. Certainly, this would be a bargain but we have to outlay the money in the first place to recoup the benefit in time. Again, it comes back to household budgetary considerations which concern any government. The estimates for the Department of Transport involve an amount of $254,72 1,000. This is not to be confused with the $433.5m which has been made available to the States for roads in the year 1976-77. This is provided for in another portion of the Budget. If I remember correctly the figure in the Budget for transport and communications is in the vicinity of $ 1200m. The amount is substantial. Administrative costs are quite significant. Out of that amount of about $254m the sum of $132,800,000 is to be provided for salaries and payments in the nature of salary. There is varied expenditure. The amount for postage, telegrams and telephone services is $4,400,000; for fuel, light and power it is $5,600,000; and for meteorological services it is $9,582,000. This gives some idea of the massive costs involved in maintaining a very worthwhile service to the community. It is also significant that there is a subsidy of $60,800,000 to meet the operating losses of the Australian National Railways. Honourable members will recall statements made here and protests lodged against the action of the previous Administration in taking over the responsibility for the Tasmanian Railways and for the non-metropolitan railways in South Australia. This, no doubt, was a remarkable coup for the governments of those States. But the inescapable fact is that now the Commonwealth Government is required to fund that amount of $60,800,000 which is a further imposition on the taxpayers of Australia. This expenditure accommodates some political ambitions of the leaders of those 2 States and of their Federal colleagues of that time. 
One matter which has occasioned concern to many people and which relates to local government authorities is the foreshadowed abolition of the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads. Its expenditure is reduced in this appropriation to $1,288,000 from $1,837,000. Great apprehension is expressed by these people, who have a particular interest in this type of funding, as to their fate following the abolition of the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads. There seems to be a misconception that as well as following its charter to determine the needs of Australia for roads, the Bureau must also determine the level of funding to be provided by the Government. It is not impugning the Bureau of Roads if the Government provides less than the Bureau recommends. The 2 activities are quite divorced. The Bureau has the responsibility to establish need; the Government has the responsibility to determine the capacity of the country to fund that need. 
I am sure that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  having demonstrated his concern for road and other transport requirements of this country would have been delighted to fund in excess of the recommendations of the Bureau of Roads. However, it would have been irresponsible management of the nation's affairs had he done so. We are persuaded by the Minister, and there is no need to doubt his assurance, that the activities of the Bureau of Roads can be well accommodated by the Bureau of Transport Economics and his Department to ensure that with the facilities and knowledge they have the same result can be achieved and economy will be effected in the process. 
There is little doubt from the level of funding of local government and from the assurances given to local government that the Commonwealth Government has its best interests at heart and that the future of local government under our federalism policy is assured. The added bonus in that respect is that this policy gives accountability to all people engaged in the 3 tiers of Government. We have, of course, been required to lift air navigation charges by 15 per cent with variations applying to international aircraft depending on whether they terminate their nights on the coast of Australia or proceed beyond it. No government likes to increase charges, particularly in an industry which has had a difficult job for a period of time. It is true that this Liberal-National Country Party Government when previously in office subscribed to a policy of 80 per cent recovery of charges in the aviation industry. However, it had the sensitivity and responsibility to adjust its thinking to meet the requirements of the industry when it was particularly hard pressed. This is in distinct contrast to the previous Administration which foreshadowed increases of 400 per cent had it remained in office. In some isolated cases in industries there were increases of up to 1300 per cent. This Government has always demonstrated its sensitivity to the requirements of transport in this country and I am sure that it will always apply itself in the manner which in the past has brought considerable acclaim. 
-The Appropriation (Urban Public Transport) Bill provides for the payment of $20m from Consolidated Revenue for the purpose of meeting cost increases incurred in relation to projects already approved under the urban public transport agreement. Under that agreement, which is between the Commonwealth and State governments, the Commonwealth has agreed to meet two-thirds of the cost of approved urban public transport improvement projects in Australia's major cities. There is an additional provision for the Commonwealth to meet its share of cost increases incurred in relation to approved projects either because of an agreed variation to an approved project or because of the escalation of labour or material costs. The $20m provided in the Bill before the House is expected to meet the Commonwealth's share of cost increases incurred in the period from 1 July 1973 to 30 June 1977. The cost increases relate to an appropriation in 1 974 of $ 1 38m for the purposes of the urban public transport agreement over a 5-year period terminating in 1977-78. The Government's action in providing $20m for increased cost recovery is, of course, additional to the $44.6m provided in the Budget for the continuation of approved projects in 1976-77. Those 2 amounts combined constitute a 90 per cent increase over the year 1975-76. 
With increasing impetus over recent years Australian governments have involved themselves in urban transport to assist in improving the quality of life in Australian cities. The present Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  had the distinction of initiating the urban public transport improvement program. In July 1971 the Commonwealth and the States agreed, as a matter of urgency, during an Australian Transport Advisory Council meeting that the Bureau of Transport Economics should prepare a report on the need for a capital investment program in urban public transport. The Bureau of Transport Economics subsequently reported to the ATAC that there were many vitally needed improvements. That was in July 1972. Subsequently the Prime Minister of the LiberalCountry Party government of the day gave a firm commitment that the Commonwealth would assist in improving urban public transport. 
It is not at all surprising that, with this groundwork laid, the Administration that followed the previous Liberal-Country Party Administration took up the interests of urban public transport and with great enthusiasm, almost bordering on irresponsibility, made lavish preparations for a major expansion in this area. It has tended circumstantially to claim credit for initiating this program for the improvement of urban public transport. I would not decry the efforts that that Administration made, but it is rather significant that it was assisted in its initial measures by the good management that had preceded it. It is all very well to talk about there being neglect of urban transport over a long period of time but it must be borne in mind that following World War II it became the prime responsibility of the governments of the day to establish economic viability in this country. There were many priorities at the time. Eighty per cent of Australia's overseas earnings came from primary industries. I am sure that members of the Opposition at the time would agree with me when I say that it would have been ridiculous if we had concentrated totally on urban improvement to the detriment of maintaining essential communication services to the area upon which we were so heavily dependent for our national economic security. 
Of course, as the honourable member for Darling Downs says, it is not a matter of what one would like to do in government; it is a matter of what one is bound to do within the parameters of responsible economic management. So the early administrations did establish economic stability, and that created the capacity for subsequent administrations to spend rather extravagently. Nevertheless, it is a matter of record that the machinery was set in motion back in 1971 to enable some major improvements to be made in an area in which improvements certainly were needed. In the 10 years to 1970-71 the per capita passenger travel on urban transport systems declined by 35 per cent. During the same period private motor vehicles operating within the city environs had created severe congestion and its attendant pollution problems. It is accepted that the factors influencing the use of private motor vehicle travel devolve on the points of convenience, comfort and cost. All of these ingredients must be properly attended to in improving any public transport system. 
It must be borne in mind also that we cannot be indifferent to the question of our finite fuel reserves. It is all very well to make plans based on the proposition that we will always have unrestricted availability of these finite fuel reserves, which will permit the continued use of private motor vehicles. It is also an act of gross extravagance if we imagine that this country can continue to meet from its resources the increasing demands made by private motor vehicle travel, usually involving one passenger per vehicle and requiring extensive works in providing for freeways and the relocation of people. That is a cost that must be measured against our total capability. 
As far as pollution is concerned, it has been established that the private motor vehicle is virtually the sole source of carbon monoxide, certainly the main source of hydrocarbons, and a large source of oxides. These considerations must be related to the urge to facilitate the travel of private motor vehicles. It may be argued that in the end superior forms of urban public transport may reduce the need for the private motor vehicle. But I am not confident that the attitudes of people in contemporary society will accommodate such a proposition. There seems to be a great reluctance by people to abandon their vehicles on the score of convenience, comfort and cost. Therefore we take the risk in outlaying massive expenditures that eventually our ambitions will not be realised. Certainly much can be done to improve the quality of urban public transport, but in the end the question remains whether the public will respond. 
It is rather significant in that respect that in other parts of the world more positive measures have been adopted to ensure that the burden is relieved within the city areas. I have in mind the situation in Singapore, for example, which has restricted zones between certain hours of the day. It is not possible to enter beyond a nominated point in the inner city unless a fee- I think, from memory, it is $2- is paid. That has the effect of reducing congestion in the city and also of removing the need to undertake costly road works and remedial measures. Consideration is also given to amending registration fees on vehicles so that we may have some circumstantial control over the size of vehicles that people buy. That certainly would effect a saving in cost to the nation and also have some beneficial effect on pollution levels. 
As regards freeways, of course we are very mindful that the previous Administration was most intent on being centralist in its authority. Although the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  insisted that the States were invited to submit their works programs, there was never any doubt that if the centralist Government of the day was not in favour of those projects they would not be approved. I have in mind in that regard freeways in particular. The Minister of the day had a personal aversion to freeways and he arbitrarily truncated assistance given by the Commonwealth Government in that area and he left ghost freeways partially constructed. That constitutes a massive unproductive cost on the community and a complete thwarting of State government ambitions. This Government, on the other hand, has indicated that it respects the specialised expertise of the States in these areas, and it has indicated its willingness to work in co-operation with them. 
The honourable member for Shortland draws my attention to the fact that he made certain points in his speech to which I would like to refer. Initially he suggested that this legislation was a piece of hocus  pocus, a pea and thimble trick, which, according to Budget Paper No. 4, completely misrepresented the position. It seems he does not recognise that this legislation appropriates funds for the purposes of the Agreement. The acts to which he referred were in the spirit of that Agreement. The decision, as detailed in table No. 7, was that the funds from earlier legislation would be used first. This decision was made by the Commonwealth 
Treasury in order to simplify administration. The requirement for $20m is to allow the Minister to approve cost increases while at the same time maintaining assurance of funds for those projects which continue into 1977-78. It seems that the obsession of the honourable member for Shortland with figures would proclude his permitting the projects to go ahead. It is the ambition of this Government that the jobs be completed. 
The honourable member spoke of the basic initiative. He claimed there was nothing concrete in the 1972 policy of the Liberal and National Country Parties and that this Bill would not be before the House but for the Labor Government. It is rather significant that the Prime Minister of the time said that his Government would make grants of $330m over 6 years. That was in the 1 972 policy speech. That could not be more positive. The amount was $300m over a period of 6 years and that was far more than the Labor Government made available. Therefore the honourable member for Shortland was quite right in saying that this Bill would not be before the House now were it not for the Labor Government. It is because of the Labor Government's dereliction and betrayal of that undertaking that this Bill is here to make more money available to overcome deficiencies. 
The honourable member for Shortland also alleged that there were cuts in the program. He ignored the fact that the then Labor Government did not approve new programs in 1975-76. Now, in this following year, we have an increase of 90 per cent. It must be borne in mind that this Government has had to face an extreme economic situation. Many difficulties have to be overcome before it can accommodate all the urgent needs of this nation. However, it still is making available 50 per cent more than the Labor Government made available in 1975-76-$64.6m compared with $42.8m-and yet the honourable member for Shortland calls it marginal. Here is another typical example of misrepresentation. A question was raised about road works in Queensland. The Opposition asked why there was no such road work in Queensland. The fact is that Queensland has not yet made an application. In the area of rolling stock, the honourable member for Shortland also complained that the Government has not approved all of Brisbane's order for 98 buses. He ignored the fact that the Labor Government decided to restrict assistance for rolling stock to one year at a time for all States. These things illustrate the major problems in the entire program and the essential difference between this Government and its predecessor. This Government has a genuine and practical concern for urban public transport. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. In view of the far reaching consequences of the recommendations of the Fraser Island environmental impact report, will the Prime Minister give an assurance that adequate time will be provided for the proper assessment of that report and the furnishing by affected parties of submissions to the Government prior to a final decision? Further, does the Prime Minister agree that the provision of opportunity for public comment would be consistent with the claims made by conservationists in respect of Government action on the Fox report? 
-I give notice that at the next sitting I shall move: 
.  That in view of the severe consequences to the people of the Maryborough-Hervey Bay district, this House should debate the findings of the Fraser Island environmental inquiry; 
That this House recognises that with the cessation of mining: 
300 people directly involved would become unemployed increasing by 33 per cent the present level of unemployment in the area and an estimated further 700 people throughout the infrastructure would face unemployment; 
Direct economic benefit to the area of $6.24m per annum would be lost; 
Mining activities established with approvals of both State and Federal governments would be terminated; 
Investor confidence in Queensland and particularly in the Maryborough area would be undermined and several major projects would be jeopardised; 
A community just recovering through the benefits of sandmining from the closure of the shipyards by the previous administration in 1974 would suffer a shattering blow to its confidence. 
That the House is of the opinion that: 
a contradiction exists between an environmental report commissioned in 1974 by the Queensland Government and the report recently tabled in this House; and 
b) the powers of the Commonwealth in export licensing should not be invoked when the Commonwealth is in conflict with a State Government on environmental or other issues not directly related to that power. 
Will the Minister for Health request the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee to consider the addition of fertility pills to the pharmaceutical benefits list since oral contraceptive pills-are already on this list? 
-Today the Minister for the Environment, Housing and 
Community Development  (Mr Newman)  announced the decision of the Federal Government on the report of the Fraser Island Environmental Inquiry. I would not attempt to disguise the fact that to the people most widely concerned in the Maryborough area this decision constitutes nothing short of a tragedy. One acknowledges immediately the Government's need to maintain its credibility as a government that is sensitive to its responsibilities to the environment. But in the end the question devolves upon the wellbeing of people. It seems to me that to contemplate such action at a time when there is a desperate need to keep people in productive employment is almost indefensible. 
I should say immediately that the people of the Maryborough area are not by any stretch of the imagination barbarians. There has been a suggestion and argument and counter-argument that opinions polarise to those who are enlightened and sensitive souls and those who derive some practical and material benefit from sand mining on Fraser Island and who therefore are obtuse and insensitive to the environment. The reverse is the case. The people of the Maryborough area have lived with Fraser Island from the time this country was discovered. They have developed a regard and an affection for the island and, in the process, have acquired an intimate knowledge of its characteristics. Nobody in Australia is more concerned with maintaining that island as he knows it than are the people in the area immediately affected. 
This island, which is of 160 000 hectares in area, is subject to mining leases covering 1600 hectares and constituting approximately 9 per cent of the total area. But, more significantly, within that area of leasing there are known mineral deposits that have been earmarked for mining amounting to only 1 per cent of the island. Fraser Island is 80 miles in length and up to 12 or 14 miles in breadth. It is not as most people- well meaning people in many cases, I concede- have been brainwashed into believing it to be, that is, a glistening coral atoll that can be wiped out before lunch by a D8 bulldozer. It is a great piece of Australiana, admittedly. But 80 per cent of the island, ignoring its unique technical characteristics insomuch as it is a great sand mass- some acclaim its uniqueness on that score- is to the eye of the beholder nothing more than drab, dull, grey Australian scrub. On the other hand, there are localities that are quite unique and a joy to behold. It was never intended that those localities be disturbed in any shape or form by mining activities. 
I say again that the overall consideration is the wellbeing of the people of Australia- in particular, the people of Maryborough and the surrounding area. As I have said, to take this action at a time like this is a luxury that this country cannot afford. Arbitrarily to stop sand mining on Fraser Island without providing the Parliament with an opportunity to debate the serious consequences inherent in the decision is to surrender the function of the Parliament to commissions or committees. Those bodies may or may not have the competence and objectivity necessary to protect the interests of affected people or the rights of the respective States. 
I feel that I am bound to make some comment on the competence of the Commission of Inquiry. I hasten to say that I claim not the slightest competence to assess in turn its technical competence, but it is a firmly held belief in the Maryborough area among those who gave evidence to the Commission and who observed its proceedings that there was substantial bias by the Commission. Because I am not in a position to make such an assertion, I make it clear that personally I do not impugn the integrity of the Commission. But I would suggest to this House that one must accept the possibility that the members of the Commission, having an expertise arising from their long association with the environment, associated in turn with their professions, must have subconsciously at least an inclination or a predisposition to maintain the environment. Under such circumstances it is not inconceivable that, manifesting a very common human trait, they may warp logic to their own subconscious desires. 
It is the place of this Parliament to assess the contents of the report and to subject them to such debate and examination as to satisfy the representatives of this Parliament that they can in truth vindicate the Government's action in coming to a decision such as this. It is true that the Government, in making the announcement regarding the decision, has with unquestioned sincerity indicated its resolve to minimise, if not completely offset, the injury suffered by the people who will be most seriously affected by this decision. But in their present form the proposals -tentative proposals, I would hope- as outlined by the Minister are grossly inadequate. They can do nothing to reassure those people who must be consumed with apprehension this evening as to their future. It is doubly tragic that only 2 years ago the same district suffered the loss of its shipyard, notwithstanding the most extravagant promises and assurances from the previous Administration that, if necessary, it would go it alone to maintain a shipyard in production. That was a traumatic experience for the community, but, because of the introduction of sand mining, the members of the community gradually regained their confidence. There was a new spirit in the community. Now- a short 2 years laterthe community has been devastated by this decision of the Government. 
We require more positive proposals from the Government. We require specific indications of the extent to which it will compensate those affected so that it may be recognised immediately what the future holds for the people of the affected area. It is not good enough just to talk about the National Employment and Training scheme, retraining and relocation. All of those things could have the same effect of tearing the heart out of a living community. People moved into this area confident that the mining activities were proceeding with the endorsement of both Governments. I draw to the attention of the House the fact that they were endorsed by both Governments. Those people may reasonably have expected some security of tenure in their new environment. Now their commitments to buy homes and their plans for the future are all at risk. There will be massive depression if this situation is not remedied within this community. There will be a depreciation of values and, over and above all, there will be a growing conviction in their minds that governments and societies in this country comfortably remote from the areas of impact of such decisions are quite indifferent to the outcome. 
We must have positive proposals about the future of the timber activities on Fraser Island. For over 100 years the timber industry, a foundation industry of the Maryborough district, has harvested timber from Fraser Island. The people in this industry have done this with such rare skill and expertise on this Island that during the furore of this present debate the Island has been described by the conservationists as a gem or a jewel. This industry supports quite substantially the wellbeing of the district. What is its future in the national heritage? What assurances are to be given to the Maryborough area, indeed to Queensland as a whole, that there will not be another intrusion on the wellbeing of the district as a result of increased ambition by those who have a disproportionate and unqualified commitment to preserve the environment regardless of other considerations? This must be spelt out. The enthusiasm of the conservationists is in direct ratio to the distance that they are situated from the scene of major impact. 
The role of the States is significant. In this case a previous environmental report commissioned by the Queensland Government and on which the mining was initiated has been swept aside. It would appear now that the ability of the States to determine and manage their own development will continually be at risk of Federal intervention because of environmental issues. It is not inconceivable that in a volatile political situation or for pecuniary advantage a committee's report could be used for purposes inconsistent with the spirit of the committee. I suggest that State governments should carry the responsibility for environmental impact studies. Recently great discontent was expressed by New South Wales coal mining interests about the unfair advantage Queensland had because of its open cut mining techniques. The New South Wales interests could not compete with this modern technique of extracting ore from the ground. A government or a committee which had a bias or an interest towards New South Wales- I mean New South Wales no mischief in singling it out for this example- could well turn around and bring in a report suggesting that the methods of open cut mining in Queensland were barbaric, and that such operations should be closed down on environmental grounds. It could force the interests concerned to mine underground. This is one possibility that must be borne in mind. 
It is disturbing that this is the first time that a Government has broken a contract or an arrangement relating to a mining activity in this country. This Government has applied the environmental protection impact study retrospectively. It has moved in and said, in effect: 'It does not matter that we gave an undertaking before; we have changed our mind; you can suffer the impact of the reversal of our decision and be left to your own devices'. Clearly this must erode confidence in all concerns that have a mind, both in their interests and this nation's interest, to engage in mining activities. It is highly erosive of the confidence essential for the creation of wealth in this country so that we can afford all our laudable programs for social welfare, education and health out of our earnings and not further deplete our capital. We delude ourselves if we say that we can maintain the environment of certain sections of this country when we live under the threat of a total breakdown of our economic and social structure. 
This decision seems to be a gross inconsistency. The States have a role in federalism and it must be extended to give them confidence and authority in respect of their own development. Does any honourable member seriously suggest that individuals in one State or another are less sensitive to the environment or are of a lower intellectual standing? Is there a difference between an Australian in Western Australia and Tasmania? What nonsense it is to suggest that the environment of Queensland must be protected by the overlording role of the Federal Government. There are 300 people facing immediate unemployment. 
Yes, for Christmas. There are another 700 people throughout the infrastructure of this industry who will face unemployment. It will be some considerable time- weeks or months- before finally we will be able to determine where this cancer, this malignancy, will stop. How do we embark on a program of compensation to afford relief when it is not immediately possible to identify all the people who will be affected? 
This Parliament has a heavy responsibility to the people of Australia. There is no question or doubt that Fraser Island requires careful attention. A management plan is an essential prerequisite. I hope that the Federal Government and the State Government can get together to facilitate that objective. As the honourable member for Wide Bay I will devote myself to achieving that goal after having first attended to the urgent requirements of people who suffer the impact of this Government decision. At present there is a direct economic benefit of $6.42m per annum.  (Extension of time granted.)  I thank the House for granting me an extension of time. I will not unduly delay the proceedings of the House. The tragedy of this decision is compounded by the precipitate haste with which it is to be implemented. I would have thought that the Government's credibility in this area would not have been diminished if it had said, having decided on balance that it was vital to the national interest to restrict mining on Fraser Island, that the mining operations would be phased down over a reasonable period in order to afford people time to adjust properly to the circumstances. That would have been a logical decision. 
I think the Federal Government must indicate clearly that it will bear the full burden of caring for the welfare and the relocation of anyone whose livelihood is at stake as a result of this decision. Of course, such rehabilitation must be under joint State and Commonwealth Government review, resisting at all times the demonstrated inclination of Federal Governments to become dominant in such a situation. I would have thought that assurances could be given to the rnining companies to the effect that they could seek relocation and work in other nonsensitive areas and thus maintain economic viability in the district. Following determination of that new location, perhaps some assistance could be given to them to relocate and thus maintain employment in the area. Over and above all that, any agreements must be in conjunction with the State Government. 
The rest of Australia just has to realise that over $270,000 in monthly income for the Maryborough district comes from the activities on Fraser Island. Certainly everyone acknowledges that consideration must be given to environmental issues. However, at this stage, when the nation is struggling to achieve economic stability, the Government should be doing its best to convince the people of Australia that it is sincere in its ambitions and that they can confidently put their trust in it knowing that their best interests are being served. This decision comes not only as a shattering blow to the Maryborough area but also it raises serious doubts in the minds of many people who looked to this Government to give them the sort of government they deserve. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. In view of the unprecedented nature of the decision on Fraser Island sand mining and the responsibility that must logically fall upon the Australian Government to finance this National Estate acquisition, will he give an assurance that the Federal Government, on behalf of the people of Australia for whom Fraser Island is being preserved, will accept full responsibility for the financial loss to and disruption of life style of those people affected by the decision? 
-I ask the Prime Minister: In view of the favourable reference in the Fraser Island environmental report totimber harvesting activities on Fraser Island, will he give an assurance that such activities will not be affected in the event of Fraser Island being declared part of the National Estate? 
Is the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs aware of an increasing practice among less responsible companies in the insurance industry to engage in inordinately long delays in the meeting of claims, particularly for fire and similar type insurance, to primary producers? Does the Minister accept that seeming deliberate delays of anything from 18 months to 2 years in such settlements, particularly when insurance companies have no intention of such claims ever reaching a court, are causing excessive and additional hardships to primary producers at a time when primary industry generally has suffered extreme financial hardships and a marked decline in income? Will the Minister undertake to investigate specific recent cases where evidence to support such occurrences can be produced? 
-I rise to speak to this clause because of the demonstration of outraged indignation by speakers from the Opposition who are particularly aggrieved at the presumption of this Government contained in proposed new section 31(2) which reads: 
At least 2 of the Commissioners shall be women. 
It is a pretty notion that in this day and age man and woman should have achieved equality. I guess there would not be a member in this House who would challenge the proposition that that should be so. The fact of the matter is that that is not a situation which has been achieved; it is a goal in prospect. The essential difference between the present Administration and the former government is that whereas the former pursued its ambitions with flamboyant enthusiasm, this Administration has kept its feet on the ground. 
This Administration realises that through traditional and habitual inclinations people are inclined to overlook the qualifications and talents of the female. History has proven quite clearly that there is no dearth of women of capability, but the instinctive inclination is to overlook them. Proposed new sub-section 31(2) is not a condescending accommodation of woman's aspirations but is a very practical device to ensure that when people address themselves to electing commissioners they do not by oversight miss the essential qualifications of women for appointment to the Commission. Rather than denigrating the role of the female the proposed subsection ensures that people are required to take pause and to consider the undeniable qualifications of women for the job. There are to be at least 2 women commissioners. The proposed sub-section does not necessarily preclude the possibility that all commissioners will be women. It is a very practical approach to the problem and realises that in their zeal the people concerned with the appointment of an efficient Commission might out of traditional practice overlook the unquestioned merit of the women candidates for the position. 
The other point I want to make relates to the role of the staff appointment to the Commission. Quite clearly this question aggrieves the Opposition. The operative word is 'representative'. There is clear evidence to suggest that by the fragmentation of votes from a multiplicity of candidates for such an election it is possible that the successful candidate would not represent the staff fully. This is a position which could in ali certainty exist today. What more logical form of maintaining rapport between the Tribunal and the staff is there than free ranging contact and communication over all phases of the industry activity? That is preferable to restricting contact through the avenue of one representative who may or may not adequately represent the views of the staff? 
I am convinced that this Bill fully accommodates the desirable features of a tribunal and that there is no emasculation of the opportunities of staff representation within the Commission. Staff will achieve involvement in management practices not by one great leap which brings the workforce onto the management board but by a gradual process of the acceptance of the philosophy of the independence of that body. I suggest that there has not been a more urgent need for us to adopt the process of gradualism than is evident here. The illustration of  Sir John  Egerton was mentioned earlier tonight. As Jack Egerton, he was just another union spokesman whose merits were left to the judgment of those who observed his behaviour at the time. He was appointed to a board. He gained a taste of management. He developed an appreciation of the responsibilities of management.  His  behaviour and his status become more statesmanlike, so much so, that eventually he disqualified himself as an acceptable unit of the trade union movement. So, we must advance gradually here. We must ensure that there is a valid and viable rapport between the proposed Tribunal and the ABC staff. Let us not delude ourselves into thinking that this gaol can be achieved by the appointment of one person. I strongly suggest- I express a total conviction in this respect- that the clauses of this Bill fully accommodate a realistic ambition to achieve what is desirable in terms of staff representation. 
I direct my question to the Minister for National Resources. In respect of the Fraser Island sand mining activities terminated by the Federal Government decision based on environmental considerations, will the Minister state the conditions to which the export licences were subject? Further, will the relevant documents be tabled? 
Honourable members will no doubt recall that following the chain of events resulting in the termination of sand mining on Fraser Island I sought and received from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  assurances that the traditional timber harvesting activities on Fraser Island were not under threat as a consequence of the report of the environmental commission or, for that matter, from the ambitions of those who might seek to damage or destroy an industry which has served Maryborough and Australia for over a century. Honourable members will understand that the Prime Minister's assurances, the sincerity of which I do not doubt for one moment, have not completely dispelled the apprehensions of a community savaged by the impact of a decision influenced by a remote society, a society brainwashed by a diabolically effective propaganda campaign waged by elements of the conservation movement. 
A fresh apprehension has descended upon the Maryborough community with the appearance of an article which could be the thin end of the wedge to stop timber harvesting on Fraser Island. In an article in a recent issue of 'Environs', a publication of the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development, Professor F. H. Talbot, the Director of the Environmental Studies Program at Macquarie University comments on the report of the Commission on Inquiry into Fraser Island. While the article, indeed the report, is basically concerned with sand mining, Professor Talbot makes references to other uses for Fraser Island, such as tourism, residential development and forestry. In regard to the latter, Professor Talbot quotes from a submission by J. P. Stanton to the Commission of Inquiry on Fraser Island with reference to his criticism of local forestry practices.  Mr Stanton  states that there is haphazard exploitation. He also criticises regeneration techniques. 
Professor Talbot, in this article, does not refer directly to the Commissioners' report concerning the practices of the Maryborough saw milling companies, which are stringently controlled by the Queensland Department of Forestry. The controls include obtaining official permits from officers of the Forestry Department to fell any tree. These officers also indicate in which direction the tree is to be felled to minimise damage to other growth in the surrounding forest. In their report the Commissioners said, and I urge honourable members to listen to this: 
It seems likely that most visitors to the Island . . . would be unaware that its timber resources have in fact been exploited over a hundred years. 
The Commissioners report that they were 'impressed by the responsible attitude to Fraser Island which has been adopted over the years by the Queensland Department of Forestry and the sawmilling companies which process most of the timber shipped from the Island'. The Commission also stated that 'the selective logging which has been taking place on the Island since the mid-ninteenth century has not destroyed the character of the forested areas as wilderness'. 'Wilderness', in the words of the Commissioners, is ' a wild or uncultivated tract of land '. 
Professor Talbot's article implies that future logging on the island may destroy its natural environment. The official report appears to deny that contention. The most alarming circumstance regarding that article is its publication in a Commonwealth Government departmental journal. That may lead to the assumption that it could become departmental policy or that it could, without reference to the original report, at least influence departmental and Commonwealth Government thinking. That creates a problem of great concern to the people of Maryborough as the timber industry in that city depends largely on the raw timber available on Fraser Island. The approval expressed by the Commissioners in their report must surely negate the attitude of  Mr Stanton  and Professor Talbot. As long as the firms involved and the State Forestry Department continue with their present responsible and thoughtful co-operation, there is no threat to the continuation of the forestry industry in the area. 
I do not suggest that the Department should close its publication to honest and productive points of view, even though they may be provocative to some, but I do insist that articles such as the one to which I have just referred should be subjected to closer scrutiny. For Professor Talbert to use the environmental report as an authority in some areas and to ignore its specific findings in others brings into question either his motives or his competence. The Government should divorce itself from such a mischievous practice as that in which the author has engaged. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Overseas Trade. What action is the Government taking internationally to improve the current depressed world market situation for dairy products? In particular, what is being done to prevent another collapse in the world price of skim milk powder when the production season gets under way soon in Europe and North America? 
-The House is discussing the Automatic Data Processing Equipment Bounty Bill, the Bed Sheeting Bounty Bill and the Agricultural Tractors Bounty Amendment Bill. I would like to address myself particularly to the Agricultural Tractors Bounty Amendment Bill which has been introduced as a consequence of a reference by the Government of the day to the Industries Assistance Commission on 30 August 1974. As bounty assistance has been in operation in one form or another since 1922 and payment since manufacturers first commenced production in the late 1940s has totalled approximately $42m it is proper that a continuing scrutiny be exercised on the fundings under these bounty arrangements to ensure that the taxpayer of Australia is satisfied that the bounties are applied within the spirit of the scheme. 
I pause briefly to express my vicarious satisfaction in the manifest pleasure of the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  over the nature of this Bill which he sees at least as a partial vindication of his perennial arguments against the evils of the tariff system in the broad. The Bill, of course, seeks to amend the Agricultural Tractors Bounty Act 1966 so as to restructure and extend the period of bounty assistance on wheeled tractors manufactured in Australia. The bounty is to be phased down over 3 periods and the terminating date for these periods is 3 1 December 1984 or at such later time as may be proclaimed. The reduction in bounty payable as local content of factory cost falls has been changed from1 per cent for every 1 per cent that the local content is less than 90 per cent to 1 per cent for every 1 per cent that local content is less than 100 per cent. This differs from the existing provisions of the Principal Act. No bounty is payable, of course, where local content falls below 55 per cent. The industry, which has received bounty assistance for more than 50 years, now consists of 2 manufacturers, one in Western Australian and the other in Victoria. The bounty payments in 1974-75 totalled $4.4m, which was nearly $1,300 per tractor. In 1975 local manufacturers sold 3438 tractors, which is about 20 per cent of the total market, and employed approximately 1600 persons. 
It is worth noting that the Industries Assistance Commission, in its examination of this problem, could not see any great likelihood of a substantial increase in the level of tractor manufacture within this country in the foreseeable future. The matter of bounty versus tariff, highlighted by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  is noteworthy as it places fairly and squarely, in identifiable form, the responsibility and the nature of this expenditure inasmuch as it is linked directly and immediately with the continued employment of, in this case, 1600 Australians. It gives the Australian manufacturers a capacity to match the prices of imported tractors which essentially are admitted to the country free of duty. All too often we have seen in cases of government support, be they subsidies or fundings of other nature, something of a stigma attaching to what is regarded by the populous in general as the primary industry beneficiary. It has been almost a forlorn argument over the years that these subsidies and price support programs are destined to subsidise the consumer and not the producer and to ensure that primary produce of first class quality, costed on an efficient basis, is made available to the Australian consumer. 
The Industries Assistance Commission came to the conclusion that the question of assistance for the production of tractors, having been last reported by the Tariff Board on 2 1 September 1972 and having in recent years been offset to some extent by inflation, was still at a level adequate to meet its purpose to the extent that the advantage given to the manufacturers was not eroded to the point where the purpose of the bounty was thwarted. The bounty was sufficiently generous to give them the capacity to match the prices and marketing competition of the imported commodity. I think it appropriate at this point to mention that the manufacturers of the tractors benefiting from this bounty should be responsible to their role of ensuring that these taxpayers' moneys are directed to the precise purpose of the scheme and that they should not be used to gain what might be described as an unfair marketing advantage against their competitors in the market. I have received from time to time disturbing reports that beneficiaries of this bounty have engaged in marketing practices by way of deferred interest and holidays on payments, schemes which seriously disadvantage their competitors. I think a continuing scrutiny is necessary to ensure that the spirit of this scheme is maintained. 
The Commission considered that it was unable to recommend assistance at the level that would be required to enable the industry to continue operating largely as it has been in the past because there is no clear evidence over a considerable number of years that the manufacturers have responded in the manner that perhaps would have been sought. Often, in the case of protective devices, a comfortable environment h as been established and the manufacturers and those involved in the operation have been content just to poke along comfortably in their sense of security and not make a sufficiently strenuous effort to relieve the taxpayers of Australia of the burden so imposed. The Commission, as a. consequence, came to the conclusion that the industry could, with re-organisation of its production activities and a more alert sense of responsibility, lift its competitive capacity so that the rate of assistance, declining over the phasing-out period, would not inflict hardship on the industry or make any serious intrusion to the purchasing options of the Australian tractor users. 
Certainly, there are high disabilities affecting local tractor manufacturers. The rather modest limitations on their operations naturally have a cost-benefit effect. It is stated that overseas manufacturers and competition usually have a production level of ten times in excess of production levels of Australian companies. The fact that for at least the next 10 years it is not anticipated that there will be any substantial growth in the demand for Australian produced tractors would certainly place a greater emphasis on and create a greater need for Australian manufacturers to rise to the occasion and offset the decline in the phasing out funding through these bounty proposals. Certainly, as the honourable member for Wakefield pointed out, the bounty versus tariff measures are challenging and it is of some interest to note the comments of the Industries Assistance Commission which states: 
With tariffs, the initial incidence of the cost of assistance falls on tractor buyers. 
It also states: 
With a bounty the cost is borne by the taxpayer. On the basis of bounties paid in 1973-74 and their tariff equivalents, the incidence of tariffs and bounties can be contrasted - with .a bounty, tractor manufacturers received $3. 7m. This cost was borne by the community generally; - 
It is right and proper that it should be so borne. As I said before, it can be identified immediately as a sacrifice- I use the term advisedly- by the taxpayer in the broad to ensure that fellow Australians have the opportunity to maintain their employment and to have offset to some extent some of the limitations imposed upon their operations. The report of the Commission also states: with an equivalent tariff, 
That is, based on the same production and sales which occurred with bounty assistance - tractor manufacturers would through higher selling prices have received the equivalent of a subsidy of $3.7m; however, the community generally would have received about $10m in tariff revenue. The cost of about $14m would have been borne by tractor purchasers although a pan of the cost would have been passed on to the community. 
Therein lies the rub that for too long the primary producers behind the tariff barriers have been required to sustain the escalating costs attached to their production. It is significant that as recently as the last 8 to 10 years the price of a popular farm tractor has risen from between 5,000 to $12,000, and $25,000 for a general purpose tractor is not an excessively high level of operation today. It is this squeeze between the costs and returns which is placing primary industries considerably at risk. It is very important that a sense of interdependence be established between the various sectors of the Australian community. It is very significant that all too often workers who in all innocence are involved in the production of commodities for primary industry seem quite oblivious of the consequences of their actions, the end fate of their product. They are living within an isolated environment. They seem not sensitive to the fact that their wellbeing depends to a considerable extent, if not totally in the final analysis, on the prosperity and viability of the primary industries. 
I am reminded of an occasion a few years ago when, despite the projections of those who seemed to have competence in this area, it was suddenly discovered that 3 years reserves of harvesters in excess of Australian requirements were on grass as a result of crop failures and other factors that perennially come to bear on primary industries. As a consequence 900 employees were discharged from Massey-Ferguson (Aust) Limited at Sunshine in Melbourne. I venture to say that that would have been the first occasion on which the people engaged in that industry realised how their wellbeing was so closely tied to the wellbeing and viability of primary industry. It seems clear that the structure of the current and past bounty schemes has not induced the tractor industry to adjust to altered circumstances, thereby improving its position. The increasing rate of assistance for higher levels of local content has supported uneconomic production rather than induced the industry to take advantage of improved economies overseas and competent production. Any future bounty scheme should be such that its protective incidence is approximately uniform in respect of tractor size and the level of content. 
This Bill, which is required to attend to that level of management for the expenditure of taxpayers' money responsibly deals with the problem. The Government has taken note that emphasis is to be placed on the higher performance or heavier tractors as the lower powered tractors constitute only 2 per cent of the Australian demand. I am sure that as the phasing out period takes effect continuing scrutiny will ensure that the various parties respond to their own responsibilities in the matter and eventually within an orderly economy this demand on the taxpayers' money may not be as great as it is presently. I commend the Bill. 
-The Australian National Railways Amendment Bill now before the House has been introduced to finalise the transfer of the South Australian nonmetropolitan and Tasmanian railway systems to the Commonwealth. The transfer agreement which the Commonwealth, Tasmania and South Australia entered into on 1 July 1975 provides for an interim period of approximately 12 months during which detailed arrangements for the transfer of staff and operations to the Australian National Railways can be completed. The introduction of this Bill demonstrates the responsible attitude of this Government towards stable government. The agreement entered into by the Commonwealth and the 2 States has aspects which could well tempt the Government to seek to abandon the arrangement. However, it has decided, notwithstanding its misgivings as to the original propriety of the action, to honour the commitment of the former Government. 
The consequence of this takeover by the Commonwealth is that South Australia and Tasmania have been relieved of a heavy financial burden relating to the perennial loss situation in which the rail services were conducted. Although States have been subjected to readjustments in funding through the Grants Commission, Loan Council programs and other financial assistance grants, the fact remains that the participant States are, as a result of the new arrangement, in a financially superior position whilst the balance of the Australian States will be required to contribute to the Commonwealth funding for the operation of these railways. It is no wonder that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  was moved to remark that the 2 State Premiers were laughing all the way to the bank. Of course, it must be acknowledged that the previous Government invited all the States to transfer their railways to the Commonwealth. Whilst this may have constituted a passing temptation to the States, they could be excused for a high degree of apprehension as to the ultimate intention of the government of the day as State interests might be affected. Nevertheless the transfer is proceeding and it requires us to give some thought to the role of railways. 
It is significant that the Australian National Railways has assumed this additional burden in a loss situation. The statement of profit and loss for the year ending 30 June 1975, the most recent report available to the Parliament, shows an operating loss for the year of $14,479,427 and a carried forward accumulated loss of $4 1.5m. This is a substantial sum of money. It is sobering to read in the Joy report on Tasmanian railways the bald statement that the Tasmanian railways, notwithstanding the adoption of any recommendations incorporated in the report will never make a profit. With the exception of a few high paying lines most prominent in Queensland- this is as a result of the wise development of the State by the Queensland Government- which carry high loadings of mineral ores to seaboard ports, most railways are now in a similar situation. Those railways will never make a profit. 
This leaves us in a situation where we must contemplate a continuance of our escalating losses or assess the role of railways within Australia. It is imperative that in assessing the role of the railways we see them in an intermodal context. Of course this lends considerable substance to the insistence of the Minister for Tranport in respect of the abandonment of the Bureau of Roads that it is essential that the transport problems of Australia be considered in the whole and that the Bureau of Transport Economics is best equipped to discharge that obligation. We have the further consideration in a highly topical context at the moment of our finite fuel reserves. The world faces a critical situation in respect of oil supplies. In the end this could well affect the mobility of the transport in this nation. 
On the east-west route from Perth through to Adelaide and the eastern States road transport is escalating year by year at a prodigious rate. It is impossible for the railways to compete with the present situation. Therefore it is essential for the Government to determine where the limited resources of this nation, notwithstanding the huge potential we contain, must be directed to the best purpose. I agree with the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  that no form of transport will shift freight at a lower rate per ton than the railways. It seems unbelievable that we should contemplate a situation where if the Government does not proceed with the electrification of the railways system, we could be back in the age of steam where the transport of this nation will rely heavily on steam locomotion. It does seem extraordinary but this is a very real threat to the transport of this nation. 
To maintain mobility we must address ourselves to the role of the railways in the future. Unless we do so the loss situation of these railways will become an increasing burden on the taxpayer. Certainly this country has been burdened with the lack of foresight of our forebears who abandoned the prospect of standardisation of railways. As a consequence we are burdened with the cost of transferring freight at exchange points throughout the nation. Clearly, to standardise our railways over the vast length of our system is beyond the resources of this nation. We have bogie exchange points throughout the system but they are achieving less in results than was hoped; not simply because of the physical limitations of the bogie exchange techniques. In many respects, again as the honourable member for Corio pointed out, it is occurring as a consequence of less than efficient management in higher echelons. There are reports of wagons arriving at bogie exchange points for the transcontinental route which are clearly not in condition to make the long distance crossing. Therefore instead of a simple bogie exchange arrangement it is necessary to put the wagons aside and to delay freight which further discourages the users of the railways to persist in that practice. This has the effect of transferring these users to road services. 
Clearly the railway systems of this country must be given their due and be recognised as an essential element of its transportation requirements, There is an unbelievable scope for containerisation and capsuling of freight for fast and cheap transport. It is tragic that over the years the railway system has been outglamourised by other forms of transport such as heavy road transport and air transport. As a consequence the whole railway system has become tired. While many members of the railway unions apply themselves conscientiously and with considerable diligence to their jobs, there is a great cloud of despair hanging over the whole system. Somehow or other we have to imbue them with a faith in their activities and a determination to rise to better efforts, to take advantage of the opportunities which month by month and year by year are increasing in number. I for one do not despair of the prospect that again the Austraiian railway systems might assume the important role that they previously played. As the honourable member for Corio pointed out, we all have a heavy responsibility to see that in the inter-modal transport systems the best advantage is taken of the resources available to Australia. I have much pleasure in supporting the Bill. 
-The Prime Minister will be aware that the abolition by Queensland of State death duties previously payable by residents of that State has had the consequential effect of creating windfall revenue to the Commonwealth Government insomuch as Commonwealth duties will apply to the total estate rather than to the residue after State duties would otherwise have been extracted. I ask the Prime Minister whether any action is contemplated by the Government to adjust procedures so as to shed the windfall death duties or, preferably, to indicate when Commonwealth death duties may be abolished? 
-The House is concerned with the Dairy Industry Stabilization Bill and associated Bills whose provisions are designed to bring some stability to the Australian dairying industry. It is a matter of record that the Liberal-National Country Party Government has always had a concern for primary industry in general and the dairying industry in particular as is evidenced by the support measures which it has introduced over the years. These Bills constitute another chapter in the rather sorry saga of the progression of an industry from the euphoria of the post World War II period to the present situation where, with escalating prices and diminishing market opportunities, chaos is threatening. I say it has been a stumbling progression. At times it appeared more as a bumbling progression where a diligent and efficient dairying industry responded to the demands which were made from time to time. The initial demand was that production should be increased. When increased productivity failed to achieve economic viability, it was said that efficiency must improve. This did not prove a solution to the dilemma. Various measures were discussed and some were proposed as to how rationalisation in the industry should take place. 
I shall say a word for Queensland in the face of the commendable exposition given by the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  who, understandably is concerned for his constituents in Victoria. I speak for Queensland because since the post-war period it might be claimed that Queensland has suffered retrenchment in the dairy industry with a fall in the number of producers from approximately 25 000 to 4000. In many respects the cause of that reduction can be attributed to the lack of concern, even total indifference, shown by other elements in the dairying industry, particularly in other States. While we talk now of market signals, one cannot be too optimistic about the people concerned taking heed of signals. The market signals have been there over the last 25 years. In the 1960s, notwithstanding clear indications that the dairying industry was heading for trouble, Victoria with cavalier disregard for the signals embarked on the development of the dairying industry. It had some encouragement to do this in the short term because under the subsidy provisions which prevailed at the time a substantial portion of that subsidy finished up in Victoria and Tasmania. Because dairying was carried out in a conducive environment, farmers were able to produce a high class commodity at a low cost of production. 
There were efficient producers in Queensland who had a greater need of subsidy support but they were actually receiving less because the level of production was lower. In that climate it was easy to understand how the Victorians thought these euphoric conditions could last forever. In the present deliberations it cannot be disguised that a cancer still exists in Victoria resulting from the irresponsibility of a previous administration which produced enormous problems for dairy farmers in Victoria for whom I have a strong personal sympathy. It is not unreasonable to expect that that cancer should be first excised and stability should be brought to that State- as it should to all States- before serious thought is given to a national stabilisation scheme which, in effect, gives a commonality to the prospects of the dairy farmers within that State. Queensland has been apprehensive that Victoria would look to be eased from its selfinduced difficulties by drawing on some of the prospects of dairy farmers in other States. 
I say again that Queensland has suffered retrenchment and it is insisting, therefore, that stage 2 be introduced at the earliest possible date. It is envisaged that stage 2 will be introduced on 1 July 1978 and this will not be a day too soon. It is totally unreasonable to imagine that the situation in Victoria can exist without a special effort within that State to resolve its self-induced dilemma. This would thereby deny the State of Queensland and possibly other smaller States the opportunity, long awaited, to establish some degree of stability within their States. Queensland is in the position now of importing its domestic butter requirements and that indicates the downturn of the industry in that State. We are at a stage now where, with a State entitlement, we can rationalise the industry within the State and hope to exploit the only real prospect in the industry of developing the market milk opportunity. At the present time, happily there is no serious competitor for market milk. We have not been able to withstand the intrusion of substitutes in other manufacturing fields. Initially there was a moral argument to withstand the intrusion of imported vegetable oils as a butter substitute but as the growing activities became established in Queensland that argument could not be sustained because it limited the opportunities of Australian oilseeds producers. 
The fact of the matter is that the retrenchment has taken effect in Queensland. We have suffered our trauma. We require Stage II of the scheme to ensure that we will not be subjected to further disadvantage. While the States have arrived at some degree of accord through the Australian Agricultural Council, it must not be forgotten that the acceptance by the State of Queensland of the introduction of Stage I by this legislation is dependent entirely on the assurance that Stage II will be introduced, thereby enabling the establishment of a State entitlement program which will protect Queensland from further intrusion on its not unreasonable prospects. I have pleasure in supporting the Bills and I hope that in the current sad situation they will lead the Australian dairymen to a happier position, one which can be arrived at in complete accord. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Administrator recommending appropriation announced. 
-The States Grants (Roads Interim Assistance) Bill has been introduced for the purpose of providing funds to the States so that road works can be continued for the first 3 months of the next financial year. The amount allocated for this purpose is a quarter of the total which has been announced for the next financial year. At present payments to the States are allocated under the National Roads Act and Roads Grants Act. Appropriations under these Acts terminate on 30 June, 1977. New legislation and appropriations will have to be confirmed to cover Commonwealth assistance to the States for the 3 year period to June 1980. Funds are allocated to each State for particular categories of roads from national highways to local urban roads and one category covers minor improvements traffic engineering and road safety. 
National roads are elegible for 100 per cent Commonwealth funding and the Commonwealth Government requires extensive documentation from the States regarding these so that it may decide priorities for this work. State roads programs must be approved by the Federal Minister who may approve a program of allocations to local authorities as an alternative to a program of projects. Detail for these programs need not be as comprehensive as for the national road projects. Commonwealth funds are to be used for the purposes of improving or maintaining the road network and salaries, including payroll tax, are eligible items of expenditure in this category. 
Each State is obliged to spend a certain amount of its resources on roads on its own system of priorities. This ensures that the Commonwealth grants for improvement of road faculties do not relieve the State completely of its financial responsibility in this regard. The amount allocated to Queensland under the provisions of this Bill is $2 5m. This represents one-quarter of the $ 1 00m which it is proposed will be the full allocation for the 1977-78 financial year. The Commonwealth Government by means of this Bill is indicating its continuing concern regarding its responsibility to roads throughout Australia. The categorisation permits all forms of State government to submit proposals to the Minister for approval so that everything from a national highway to a boat launching ramp and access to it may be considered. 
It is only to be expected that, notwithstanding the Government's actions in allocating funds in this manner to ensure a continuation of work in this essential area, there will still be criticism by various levels of State goverment, including local government authorities and individuals. It is amazing that people in this country can call for a reduction of income tax and other forms of taxation on the one hand and then expect that the Government can hand out money indiscriminately on the other. We hear calls for increases in the scope of social service payments of all kinds and various organisations call for money to be spent on improvements and rectification of many aspects with which they are concerned. I am sure that the Government would be very happy to be able to meet all the requests made to it, but it also would be very happy to hear suggestions as to how the additional money should be found. It is all very well for people and organisations to luxuriate within the confines of limited responsibility but the Federal Government must maintain the solvency of the country and cater for the requirements of the society in the broad. 
It is totally unreasonable to insist that the Federal Government should fully cater to all the demands made upon it unless it is simultaneously accepted that the additional revenue be obtained in a ruthlessly indifferent manner so as virtually to absorb totally personal incomes and consequently deny Australians the opportunity firstly to retain as much of their earnings as might prove an incentive to their endeavours. It is often argued by those with sectional interests and responsibilities that revenue raised from a particular source should be mainly returned to that activity from which it was raised. Hence we have the periodic and frequent demands for a full allocation to roads from the revenues derived from taxes on road transport, petrol, vehicle sales tax and the like. 
It must be borne in mind continually that such taxes are essentially a simple means by which governments gather the revenue to discharge their administrative responsibilities to all areas, many of which yield little if any direct revenue to government. Therefore it must be realised that to argue for a maximum expenditure on roads from moneys raised within that area would be tantamount to beer drinkers insisting that the $700m derived from beer tax should be spent on bigger and better breweries and longer bars. To emphasise the point further, it could be argued likewise that death duties should be applied to increase the death rate. 
The allocation determined by the Commonwealth Government for road assistance to the States demonstrates a continuing awareness of the need to maintain a major national asset consisting of 835 000 kilometres of existing roads, particularly considering the serious economic situation confronting the Government on its ascension to office. Hopefully the day will arrive when by dint of new enthusiasm Australians will apply themselves with increasing energy to developing the incredibly great resources with which this country is blessed. At such a time the Government will find itself in the happy position of being able to accommodate fully the requirements and ambitions of all the parties applying themselves to their special responsibilities. In the meantime, if the people of Australia would wish the Government to divert moneys from one or more areas of expenditure to another one, they should make their attitude abundantly clear. 
In brief, it must be realised that the cake is only so big and the slices to be of benefit cannot be ridiculously small. Those who seek to share the nation's resources should clearly indicate the priorities of government expenditure in the fields of roads, transport, communication, social security, welfare, health, defence and education. It is sobering to recognise that at a Federal Budget expenditure level of $24,000m, the Government is locked in to an 80 per cent continuing commitment. Such a commitment leaves very little latitude for tax relief when at the same time calls for additional government spending show no sign of diminution. 
Indeed, as the honourable member for Darling Downs says, there is an unending demand for moneys from States and local government authorities with little, if any, regard of the total capacity to meet such demands. This Bill, in common with other legislation the Government brings before the Parliament, carries the hallmark of responsibility and administrative competence in a difficult fiscal situation. I commend the Bill to the House. 
I ask the Minister for Overseas Trade: What is the latest situation in the dispute between Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd, as agent for the Queensland Government, and the Japanese refiners on the future of the 600,000 tonne per annum long term sugar contract? What action is the Commonwealth Government taking towards resolving these issues which are most critical for the Queensland sugar industry? 
-I shall be quite brief in my remarks in support of this Bill to amend the Air Navigation Act. It is simple in essence and I shall not exploit the latitude extended to the House for a free ranging debate on matters that are properly the concern of the Government and within the purview of the International Civil Aviation Organisation. Quite simply this Bill calls for the ratification by the Australian Government of the protocol of ICAO to increase the council membership from 30 to 33. This is not at all unreasonable as the assembly of the International Civil Aviation Organisation decided in 1974 that because ICAO had grown from 84 states in 1961 to 140 states, a proportionate increase was reasonable within the parameters of the functions of that Assembly. 
It is proper that Australia has brought its expertise to ICAO and that it maintains a continuing interest in such a prestigious organisation. It is an instrumentality of the United Nations Organisation. Any organisation which has a responsibility to contracting states which carry in excess of 600 million passengers per annum must be of consequence. There is an awful lot of responsibility  attaching to that  organisation to ensure that international travellers can move about with a reasonable assurance as to their security, well being and comfort. Incidents such as the tragic collision of Jumbo aircraft on the ground at Tenerife must command the attention of ICAO. It must ensure that as far as is humanly possible incidents of that nature are avoided. 1ACO, of course, has wide-ranging responsibilities in relation to international travel. Specifically it covers technical problems, supersonic operations, all-weather operations, aircraft accident prevention, as I have just mentioned, the application of space techniques relating to aviation, visual aids, the air-worthiness of aircraft, automated data interchange systems, aircraft infrastructure compatibility, the impact of civil aviation development on the human environment and aviation security. That is certainly an expansive field. It requires the best talents that Australia and the other member nations can bring to ICAO. As the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  and subsequent speakers pointed out, this is a non-contentious Bill. To facilitate its passage through the House I terminate my remarks by recommending that the Bill be supported. 
-In recent weeks members of this Parliament would have received letters from the Fraser Island ExSandminers Area Relief Committee seeking their support for adequate compensation following the Government's decision to terminate sand mining in that area. I was previously acquainted with their intention and indeed I had some modest input into that letter. It was designed to enlist support for my representations to the Government to ensure that the requirements of the Fraser Island Environmental Inquiry's final report would be fully met. Recommendation No. 2 in that final report called for the Government to ensure that appropriate economic and other assistance be given to the extent that adverse regional economic effects follow the implementation of recommendation No. 1. 
In the area of compensation the Federal Government certainly did provide $10m to be applied over a three-and-a-half year period. It was designed initially to be a wage element in programs that would be supported by the State Government to ensure a continuity of employment for those who sought it. The State Government was not sensitive to the Federal Government's insistence that it should share the responsibility of a decision that was exclusively the responsibility of the Federal Government. It insisted in the end that the money be passed over to the State Government which would determine its application. The position now is that approximately a score of ex-sandminers have not been able to secure employment. Very many of them have been given alternative employment in local authorities, forestry departments and other areas but they have been required to take employment at a substantially lower income- in most cases at an average of 30 per cent lower- than the incomes they previously received. Clearly they have been disadvantaged as a consequence. A number of these sand miners have been dismissed for a second time when local authority funds directed to programs to assist in this respect become depleted and it was necessary for those sand miners to be dismissed pending the introduction of the programs for the next financial year. 
I do not propose in the few minutes available to me to canvass the rights or wrongs of the decision made on the environmental issue but the fact is that, as a consequence of that decision, very many Australians are suffering hardship and distress. They had, with reasonable expectation of continuation of employment with its attached income, committed themselves to expenditure in the way of buying homes and motor vehicles and attending to all the requirements normally associated with the establishment of family in an employment area. Immediately on the decision coming into effect they were seriously embarrassed in maintaining their commitments. Some husbands are working 1,000 miles away from their families, and are likely to remain so, to secure employment that offers sufficient return to meet their commitments. Others are in very serious difficulties. They were required to dispose of their vehicles and various other assets and are at risk of having to surrender their homes. 
The question arises as to what extent the Federal Government should hold itself responsible for their condition. This House is painfully aware that there are at this time very many Australians who are equally distressed through a different set of circumstances, but this situation exists because of the Federal Government responding, perhaps quite properly, to what it believed was the insistence of the Australian society, that Fraser Island ought to be preserved for all Australians because of its unique characteristics. These may be argued, but that was the decision and very many well meaning people were most vocal and active in ensuring that the Government did come to that decision. It has been rather sad- indeed it may be an indictment of our society- that since the decision has been made very little, if any, interest has been displayed by those people to ensure that those who suffered the consequence of their ambitions should not be unfairly treated. 
There is a strong suggestion that the mining company is the culprit, that because it elected to take a calculated risk on the continuation of operations it has a debt to those discharged sand miners and those who may have felt the impact of that decision. But it is not possible to persuade the people so affected that there is any substance to those assertions. They quite rightly point to statements that have been made in this House. On 20 May 1975 the Prime Minister of the day posed the question to what extent the Australian Government could purport to abort contracts which had been made in accordance with the law. He said: 
The people who sought the authorisation from the Minister for Minerals and Energy had acted completely in accordance with the law- 
He was referring, of course, to DillinghamMurphyores Minerals. That authority relates to a statement by the late  Mr Connor  in answer to a question upon notice on 21 April 1975 when he said: 
On 13 December 1974, D.M. Minerals was authorised to finalise an export contract in accordance with the terms of a draft agreement submitted on 13 September. Under the minerals export control procedures established in February 1973, D.M. Minerals had consulted with officers of my Department prior to drawing up the draft agreement. The project was not considered new in that it had reached an advanced stage in planning and development and substantial exploration and development expenditure had already been incurred, some of which dated back to the early 60s; also, mining leases had been granted by the Queensland authorities laying down, amongst other things, stringent conditions to protect the environment. 
Specifically in answer to the question put by  Mr Hunt  as to whether the Government intended to honour its undertaking to D.M. Minerals, the Minister categorically stated: 'Yes'. So there is a firm belief in the community that the mining company was legally and properly engaged in an activity which brought with it an expectation for all involved of a continuation of operations over a period of 15 to 18 years. Those ambitions on the part of all concerned were abruptly terminated by Government decision based on what it believed to be a reasonable rationale in the interests of the people of Australia. 
It is only proper that the people of Australia, through the Federal Government, should compensate those people adequately, as urged by the environmental inquiry itself in the recommendation to which I referred before. The sand miners seek recognition in terms of a severance pay or an income maintenance scheme for a periodperhaps six months' equivalent income-or in some respect a special allocation of funds should be made to ensure that they are not left alone to carry the burden of a nation's conscience, if indeed it was pertinent to the Fraser Island issue. 
It would be remiss of me, as their representative in this Parliament, to slacken my efforts to ensure that in this situation justice should be done. To suggest that the mining company commenced operations with indecent haste to thwart the ambitions or the intentions of the environmental inquiry is quite mischievous. The company had been previously authorised, as was pointed out in  Mr Connor's  statement to embark on this project. In actual fact on 16 March 1975, some few days before the announcement was made that an environmental inquiry would be conducted on Fraser Island, the company had expended $6m on pre-mining activities and the construction of plant for that project. A few days later the wet plant on the island was commissioned and operations began. So this was a long continuing exercise from 1961 which involved a total commitment of the project in 1973, on the basis of categoric assurances from the Government the company was authorised to proceed. 
It strikes me as an absolute mischief to suggest that these people should be left to their own devices to resolve their own dilemma because the Government proves to be derelict in its responsibilities on behalf of the society that insisted this action should be taken. I would seek the support of all members of this House to apply themselves as best they can to see in this situation that justice be done. 
Will the Minister for Overseas Trade inform me as to the progress being made in efforts to negotiate a new international sugar agreement? 
-Before proceeding to discuss the Bill I wish to make a comment or two on the remarks of the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  who quite predictably attacked the Government's measures on urban public transport. He had the termerity to accuse the Government of involuntarily funding this operation simply to continue programs which had been conceived and initiated by the previous Labor Administration. In fact the record will show that on 19 July 197 1 the Australian Transport Advisory Council, the State governments on the recommendations of the present Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  who was then holding that portfolio, decided to request the Bureau of Transport Economics to prepare a report on the needs for a capital investment program in urban public transport. This report was subsequently submitted to the Australian Transport Advisory Council in July 1972, and it was the McMahon Government which made a commitment in regard to federal expenditure on urban public transport. Therefore it was quite mischievous of the honourable member for Shortland to try to mislead the House into believing that we are involuntarily committed to continuing a Labor program. 
To describe the $5m for new projects as being a paltry amount is equally unfair. It is significant that the $5m is one of the very few appropriations for new expenditures in this Budget. The Minister has admitted with his inimitable candour that the appropriations would fall short of the ambitions of those who had a direct responsibility in areas such as urban public transport, but implicit in the remarks of the honourable member for Shortland was an inference that the cornucopia which served the previous Administration and its extravagant ambitions would continue to flow. Many of the remarks of the honourable member about urban public transport were relevant but seemed to presup- pose that this matter can be dealt with in iso- l ation. Of course, it cannot. The funds available for urban public transport along with the involvement of any government depends entirely upon the viability of the nation's economy, and there is no area of government administration which can be indemnified against the restraints forced upon the Government to restore the economy to a state which all Australians would endorse. In that respect the previous Administration has a good deal to answer for in terms of the restrictions that must apply if this Government is to meet the quite proper ambitions of those city dwellers who wish to be afforded some relief from the vicissitudes with which they are afflicted in public transport. 
The Appropriation (Urban Public Transport) Bill 1977, which involves a total Commonwealth Budget allocation for 1977-78 of $51m, acknowledges the continuing awareness of this Government that this is an urgent problem which requires the constant attention and the best services of this Government, subject to the overall economic viability of this country. The money is allocated under a CommonwealthState agreement under which the Commonwealth provides two-thirds of the cost of approved capital works projects aimed at improving the quality, capacity, frequency and efficiency of public transport systems in the State capital cities. The excess of $ 1 8m is to be used for the continuation of approved urban public transport improvement and almost $28m has been allocated to meet cost escalations. In addition, the amount of $5m to which I previously referred has been included for new projects. This is the first allocation of Commonwealth funds for new works in this area since the 1974-75 Budget. 
It may or may not be necessary for me to remind the House that the previous Administration brought down the 1974-75 Budget, and it is rather conspicuous that in that Budget for reasons which that Administration may properly been able to advance there was no funding for new projects in urban transport. While the allocation may fall short of the ambitions of those who have direct responsibility for urban public tranport, this area of responsibility is no more exempt from the financial restrictions placed on the Government than is any other area. This, of course, does not imply a mechanical dissecting of the total resource without due regard to the pressing priorities as they identify themselves. 
This advances the proposition that if the Labor Opposition determines that a disproportionate share of the nation's resources should be expended on urban public transport or in any other area it may care to nominate, it would be required simultaneously to indicate which area should surrender expenditure presently accorded to it. It is axiomatic that the cake is just so big and it is simply a matter of determining how large the slices will be and to whom they might be apportioned. It is nonsense to suggest to the House or to the country at large that we can argue, as the Opposition argues, that regardless of the economic consequences we should be obliged to make money available to meet the possibly quite proper ambitions of those who have an interest in specific areas. 
It is of supreme importance that public transport be attractive to the public. It must be seen as an attractive alternative to the private motor vehicle. Pollution from exhaust emission, crowded roads and the present situation regarding the supplies and costs of finite fuels all point to the necessity of making greater use of public transport resources. That raises the question of whether the nation can continue to tolerate the extravagant use of finite fuel as evidenced by multi-lanes of sole occupant vehicles. We should not slavishly adhere to the notion that public transport can be dealt with in isolation. Its role must continually be monitored to the needs of changing patterns. Thought is required to establish whether social patterns should be warped to accommodate the realities attaching to any nation's inability to deploy its resources indiscriminately. 
The Commonwealth Government is also involved in urban transport problems such as the provision of and access to airports and ports and in providing financial assistance for urban roads. This, of course, has an impact on the totality of servicing the urban transport requirements of the cities. When I mentioned that we might have to warp attitudes to meet our capacity to service urban transport requirements it struck me as fairly significant that in Singapore some success has been achieved by the Government, not in denying the private citizen the right to acquire a high powered or large vehicle but in applying registration charges and the like at such a level that people are deterred, to some extent, from investing in such a high capacity vehicle. People are not denied the opportunity of purchasing a vehicle but the circumstances I have outlined make a substantial difference to the number of vehicles which may use the available road space. This is an area which this Government and this society may in due time have to consider. For the same reason, in Singapore, within a prescribed perimeter of the centre of the city, between prescribed hours it is not possible to move freely into the heart of the city unless one pays a toll at delineated points. Whilst this may appear as some intrusion on private liberty, the fact remains that whilst we may aspire to certain conditions we can only legitimately address ourselves to the achievement of those ambitions within our means. 
This is an oustanding characteristic of this Government. It endeavours to meet the requirements of its people, mindful at all times that it cannot take them out of an area of economic responsibility, that we must establish the viability of our economy. From our earnings, as distinct from further depleting the capital reserve established by our forbears, who, with a degree of resignation and fortitude, worked on the premise that there was dignity in labour and that that labour should attract its own rewards, we gave a capacity to this country which the previous Administration was able to exploit in the extreme. The Labor Government went on a spending spree. Many of its programs were laudably conceived but that Government showed a total disregard for the capacity continually to fund them. 
In urban public transport there are some ambitious and free thinking plans to relieve the problem. But it is disturbing to realise that many people who promote these projects seem totally insensitive to the fact that their plans could call for an expenditure of thousands of millions of dollars in each capital city. Whilst that may be desirable, it is beyond the bounds of feasibility. We cannot spend beyond our capacity. 
Whilst governments have some modest latitude to float to one side or the other of that parameter, eventually circumstances will bring them back to the grim reality that we cannot spend beyond our means. This Government has demonstrated in its appropriation that it recognises its continuing commitment to the improvement of urban transport. It also recognises that to attribute a disproportionate share of our resources to that area and to neglect those other activities which contribute towards maintaining economic viability will, in the end, betray everybody. I hear interjections which challenge the propriety of this action by implying a bias towards non-metropolitan areas. I think all Australians recognise at this stage that there is no future for Australians in sectors; there is only a future for all Australians together. If the Opposition wishes to delude itself into believing that it can isolate itself from these realities, in the end we will see our cities in total chaos. 
There is only one true source of wealth and that is from the good earth. Anything else we can process, kick into shape and give a coat of paint but we have produced no true wealth at all. We have processed it and stimulated the money supply, but in this day and age we are still dependent on what the good earth will yield. We must establish a balance between meeting the proper requirements of the people of the cities and those in rural Australia. I speak with all the authority of one who was city born and bred until I discovered, in 1950 as an ex-serviceman, that there was a greater Australia outside. I appreciate, as a consequence, that there are urgent requirements both in the city and in rural Australia. These represent the true Australia. 
The fact of the matter is that payments to the States under the terms of the urban public transport agreement to the end of 1976-77 totalled $ 137.3m. The proposed expenditure in 1977-78 is $51m. As I have mentioned, that includes $27.7m to meet the Commonwealth's share of cost escalation. Now, $51m as a proportion of $ 137.3m which has been funded from the inception of the scheme in 1974-75 clearly indicates that there is definitely a demonstration of responsibility on the part of the Government towards its commitment for urban public transport. It is a mischief for the Opposition to suggest that this Government is trying to ease itself out of its responsibility. On the contrary, the hope for the cities of this nation, along with the rural areas and the provincial areas rests in the wisdom and acumen of this Government. The States have accepted with enthusiasm the $5m advanced for new projects, as distinct from the assertion of the honourable member for Shortland that this is a paltry amount. The States have unanimously indicated that they will elect to apply these funds to rolling stock, which is their most urgent requirement. There is no reason whatsoever to give any credence to the assertion of the Opposition that this Government is derelict in its responsibility. 
I mentioned earlier the multi-lanes of sole occupant vehicles. Today it was more than a happy coincidence that the Minister for National Resources and Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Anthony)  introduced into the House the interim report on energy conservation which was prepared by the National Energy Advisory Committee. That interim report contained the Committee's proposals for the conservation of energy. The report stated that these proposals had been framed to create in the first instance a community consciousness of the uncertainties of our energy future and a common will to exercise restraint in energy consumption, especially of oil. 
The ensuing changes in community habits and practices will, of course, take time. Time is the essence of the whole operation. The operation revolves around the question of just how long Australians can delude themselves into believing that they can get something for nothing. We have a total resource potential now. It is the responsibility of this Government, as it would be of any other government, to determine the priority to be given to the application of that resource. If the Opposition insists upon increased expenditures in one area or another it has a responsibility to indicate what expenditure on other areas it would be prepared to surrender, because there is not way of making the cake larger than our resources will permit. I have pleasure in supporting the Bill. 
I would like the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development to tell me whether the current Press reports regarding renegotiations of arrangements for the Albury-Wodonga growth centre are accurate? Will the Minister indicate whether the Government regards that project as a priority? 
-The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Overseas Trade will be aware of the great concern and apprehension felt by sugar producers and supporting communities at recent threatening trends in market prospects. Will he inform the House whether the International Sugar Agreement decisions will have the effect of bringing security and prosperity to the Australian sugar industry? 
I wish to 
PUt forward a modest proposal which I feel could e of some benefit to the Australian motor vehicle industry. I recently had discussions with members of the retail section of that industry. I have come to the conclusion that the Government could consider reducing the sales tax on vehicles by a modest 2 'A per cent. Unquestionably this would have the effect of stimulating sales in the retail area. The  2Vi  per cent is a modest amount because there is no suggestion that the Australian car manufacturing industry should be relieved of its responsibility to increase efficiency iri the production of motor vehicles in this country. A reduction of  2lA  per cent certainly would act as a stimulus to an industry which at the moment is lacking buoyancy. 
The effect of a 2 'A per cent reduction in sales tax would require an increase in sales of 10 per cent to make good the sales tax revenue forgone. In other words, a dealer currently moving 100 vehicles in a specified period would be required to sell 1 10 vehicles, or a dealer selling 10 vehicles would need to sell another vehicle. According to the information brought to me, this is well within the bounds of possibility. In such an exercise the Government in fact would not be surrendering revenue in the final analysis. Rather, in the process it would have generated some activity in an industry which at the moment needs a shot in the arm. 
There would be additional incidental benefits. It would have an effect on the employment level in the industry, in the wholesale and retail areas. It stands to reason that if a retailer is not moving vehicles he must look closely at his staffing position. This device certainly would have the effect of removing the need, in many cases, for employers to dispense with some of their staff. The generation of activity would bring further incidental benefits to the Government. I commend this proposal to the Government for earnest consideration. 
The sales tax on motor vehicles represents a very substantial penalty. Based on wholesale prices, which do not include delivery or registration charges, the sales tax on a Holden Torana is $927.97; on a Kingswood it is $1,062.06; on a Ford Falcon standard it is $994.88; and on a Datsun 180B it is $8 10.09. Sales tax is a very substantial deterrent for people who are contemplating purchasing a vehicle and who also are timid in view of the uncertain conditions that prevail at this time. There is no question of doubt that there is sufficient liquidity in the community to enable people to fulfil their ambitions in the acquisition of material objects, including motor vehicles, but we need something to break the nexus, to encourage people to take the step. If some people take that step others will be encouraged to go along with them and thus we can generate a mood of getting on with the job. We could say to people: 'Buy now and take advantage of an immediate sales tax concession'. Also this would set aside the effects of even modest inflation over a period of time. If the Government initially forgoes a modest 2V4 per cent in sales tax, it can anticipate a considerable stimulus in the industry and comfort itself with the thought that in the long term the revenues that will accrue will in no way be diminished. 
I say again that a reduction of  2Vi  per cent is modest. It must of necessity be modest because the Ausstraliin car manufacturing industry cannot be relieved of its reponsibility to get its house in order. Too many people are disenchanted as a result of their experiences in buying new Australian vehicles. Manufacturers, encouraged by moving some of the vehicles on grass at the moment, may direct themselves to greater purpose in putting their own house in order. I am sure that if consideration is given to this proposal it will be found to have considerable merit. 
I join the debate on Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ) in which the Committee is considering the estimates for the Department of Transport. The estimates amount to $285,009,000, which is only about 1.3 per cent higher than the appropriation for the year 1976-77. Whilst this modest provision against inflationary forces may have caused some irritation to those who are required to provide services in the Department of Transport, the merit in the Government's economic policies in that respect is manifested in the consumer price index announcement of today together with the announcement for the preceding quarter. This will give encouragement to those people who look to the Government to establish a stable economy to believe that we have now established a base from which we can go forward to release some of the restraints that have impeded normal development of not only transport facilities but also all those facilities that tend to contribute towards a well running country. 
Having said that it must be acknowledged that some of the restraints responsibly applied have caused apprehension in various quarters in the Australian community. I have in mind inrespect of these estimates the provision of some $450,000 as against $600,000 for the preceding year for division 655.3.09- Aerodrome Local Ownership Plan- Development grant. There is $1,300,000 provided for a maintenance grant under that same plan. 
It has come to  my  notice in recent times that some local authorities are subject to persuasion by the Department of Transport to take over airfields presently operated by the Commonwealth Government. There is a view that the local authorities should, as a matter of course, take over the ownership of these airfields. The Department certainly puts forward a very responsible and persuasive proposal by which local authorities would not be handicapped if they took over these airfields; in actual fact they could advance their own local interests, particularly in tourist areas, where it is not always within the capacity of the Commonwealth Government to provide all the amenities and facilities that locally based people would seek. So there is some merit in the proposal that local ownership could make a significant contribution to the maintenance of that airfield network which is so essential to communications in this vast country of ours. 
The Department insists that any retrenchments of facilities at airfields should not intrude on operational security and in no way represent an intimidatory step to bring to heel local government authorities which may have adopted a stance of non-co-operation with the Department's ambitions or which, for reasons validly based, are not inclined to take over ownership of their local airfield. The Department has found it necessary at certain airfields- two in my electorate, Bundaberg and Maryborough, of which I have first hand experience-to reduce the width of runways and, in one situation, to shorten the length of the secondary strip. The local authorities, understandably, feel that this measure, which is argued as being necessary on the basis of cost restraints, in actual fact is designed to force them into some action to take over ownership. 
It may be argued that some local authorities have successfully and profitably accepted the transfer of ownership. By the same token, others may argue that they have been disadvantaged by taking over the responsibility of maintenance of airfields. The fact remains that since 1958, when the Government adopted a policy of local ownership, development and maintenance of aerodromes, in excess of 200 council-owned aerodromes have been participating under this plan. Of that number approximately 70 were taken over from the Government prior to the introduction of this policy. The fact remains that a number of local authorities, in good faith or for various reasons, have co-operated with the Commonwealth Government and are responsible for the maintenance and operation of their own airfields under the provisions of the scheme, which are not ungenerous. Others have elected not to take the step. We have the somewhat incongruous situation at the moment in which those which have assumed the responsibility at the wish of the Commonwealth Government could quite properly express some resentment that other local government authorities are still free to elect not to take over local ownership. 
It may be argued that the time has arrived for the Government to readdress itself to this question. It has been pertinent for a long period. Surely by now it must be clearly established as to what constitutes a deterrent for local governments to take over their airfields when under the provisions of the policy the terms appear to be quite generous. It may be that we will have to review the conditions that apply and make them more generous so that they give justice to those who have assumed responsibility of local ownership and at the same time encourage those who are hesitant about adoption of the policy to take the step. It seems an intolerable situation that the years can go by and that this policy, firmly based, endorsed and implemented by all governments during that period, should be left in a state of hiatus where local government authorities are free to determine their own action in the matter. 
I am quite satisfied that what the Department of Transport is presently doing as a result of cost restraints is not directed towards intimidating local government authorities to fall in with the Department's ambitions. I am equally satisfied that there is no intrusion into the operational safety of aircraft using those airfields, though I must concede that in the case of Bundaberg, where strip 0624 has been shortened to an operational length which would deny the use of that strip to F27 aircraft in extreme cross-wind component conditions, certain difficulties could occur. As a result of that shortening those aircraft would be required to overfly Bundaberg to another airfield which could accommodate their requirements. This would happen very rarely. Understandably, the Bundaberg community is not enthused at the prospect of an aircraft being required at any time to overfly and not maintain schedules. While, statistically, it may be of no consequence, almost certainly on the day concerned a number of passengers may be seriously inconvenienced by the failure of that aircraft to maintain schedule. 
It is true that we have time on our side, in the case of runway 1432, which has been reduced from 45 metres to 35 metres. The bitumen aprons, which are now excluded from the runway dimensions, will not disappear for a number of years because of very light usage and will remain available to aircraft in a stress operational condition. Hopefully by the time those aprons deteriorate to the point at which they might become a hazard the finances of this country I might say I am confident that they will bewill permit a review of the situation to establish whether operational requirements call for a resumption of the runway dimensions as they originally stood. I feel very keenly that this is a situation which, if not intolerable, is certainly one which is not desirable. Local government authorities are left in a position of conflict. Some assume responsibility. Others consider that it is an excessive demand on their resources, at the risk of further penalties to their ratepayers, to accommodate Commonwealth Government ambition as to the future control and operation of these airfields. 
I notice also in the estimates a subsidy to air services totalling $425,000. I think this is an occasion for congratulating the Government for showing such a keen sense of responsibility in coming to the aid of Connair Pty Ltd and similar services in remote areas which are so essential to communities in this vast nation of ours. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The estimates for the Department of Science, which are now before the Committee, involve the sum of $186,760,000. This amount is over $14m more than the appropriation for the year 1976-77. The activities of the Department of Science cover a great range. It is also true to say that those activities, whilst being of the greatest importance to Australia's development, are of such a nature that they do not consistently retain the public's awareness. Apart from the administrative sector which commands an appropriation of $5,502,800, the Department maintains operations in analytical services, providing security for Australians in matters as far apart as food purity standards and drug analysis. In the latter area, the analytical services section provides evidence in court in matters of illegal drug imports and in many cases is able to establish the source of such drugs. This service is a valuable weapon in the nation's efforts to cope with an increasingly serious drug problem. 
The Department's responsibilities also include the Commonwealth Bureau of Meteorology. That body, incidentally, commands an appropriation of $34,950,000, which is rather staggering in quantum but which demonstrates again the vastness of our nation and the sophistication of the meteorological services needed to maintain efficient operation of security not only for our aviation industry but for all those who are required to have an awareness of the mischief inherent in the elements. The Bureau of Meteorology, the Antarctic Division, the Ionospheric Prediction Service, the Metric Conversion Board, the National Standards Commission, the Institute of Marine Science and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation demonstrate the breadth of the Department's responsibilities. 
In recent times, as a member of the Joint Committee on Public Works, I have had the opportunity to inquire, during public hearings, into the activities of the Antarctic Division in the matter of the transfer of the headquarters complex to Kingston, Tasmania; the proposal to construct an analytical laboratory at Pymble, New South Wales; and, more recently, the proposed construction of a beef research station at Rockhampton, Queensland. In all situations I was unimpressed with the spirit of the officers and scientists involved, particularly when viewed, in many instances, against a background of incredibly cramped working conditions. 
On this occasion I wish to address myself to the activities of the CSIRO. The CSIRO, of course, has been subject to an inquiry initiated by the Government. The report, commonly referred to as the Birch report, was furnished to the Parliament as recently as August last. In that report, the CSIRO 's involvement in rural research was examined closely. Recommendations from the Committee foreshadowed a lessening of input in rural research. The actual recommendation was: 
CSIRO should examine the relevance to its role as a national organisation of the composition of its rural research effort, particularly in relation to the capabilities and responsibilities of other organisations, such as State Departments of Agriculture. 
This expression of view has occasioned some ap- prehension within the sugar industry which, asonourable gentlemen undoubtedly realise, is an exceedingly efficient industry, with more than 90 per cent of Australia's total production being produced in Queensland. The sugar industry has enjoyed a most productive and satisfying association with the CSIRO. It is reluctant in the extreme to contemplate a diminution of the CSIRO 's involvement, particularly when no adequate alternative machinery appears in immediate prospect. 
The sugar industry, of course, makes a very substantial contribution to the funds that the CSIRO needs in order to perform its research. It is noteworthy that the sugar industry has a cash output, in production terms, of in execess of $600m a year, with more than $500m representing export earnings. The Sugar Research Institute is a body through which the industry funds research. This Institute is financed by a voluntary levy on the tonnage of cane crushed by every sugar mill in Queensland. This contribution to research funds attracts a grant from the Australian Government, through the CSIRO, of $1 for every $2 contributed by the industry, up to a limiting contribution from CSIRO of $400,000. The sugar milling industry has found this general basis of Australian governmental support for effective research important and satisfactory. It is stimulating but self-regulatory. The 1976-77 budget for Sugar Research Ltd, which is the registered device through which these funds are channelled, represents an expenditure of approximately $1.6m directed towards sugar milling research. 
It is fair to question the extent to which research expenditure should relate to the value of a particular industry's level of production. The Industries Assistance Commission's report on financing rural industry drew attention to this consideration. That report pointed out that, in contrast to the relatively slow rate of growth of the rural sector, rural research has expanded at a much more rapid and continuing rate from the low base level of 1939-40. An examination of growth in staff numbers and cost per scientist shows approximately a SO-fold increase in research costs over 30 years, compared with an eight-fold increase in the gross value of agricultural production over the same period. Expressed in terms of the ratio of research cost to rural product value, the upward trend, however, is remarkably steady. It increased from approximately 0.2 per cent in 1939-40 to approximately 1.6 per cent in 1969-70. 
It is pertinent, therefore, that the Government and those who are charged with the responsibility of administering properly the nation's resources should ensure that research is responsibly relevant to the industry's requirement for that research. That, of course, is the dilemma that confronts those who are funding research. A peculiar characteristic of research is that its value cannot be measured in quantum terms until the research is substantially advanced and in some cases completed. The alternative to not funding this speculative exercise is to do nothing. Clearly, if research had not been a continuing involvement both of governments and of the industries themselves, not only Australia's rural industries but also Australia's manufacturing and secondary industries would be less well served in terms of capacity. So, the essence of the CSIRO 's efforts as they relate to the sugar industry are well received by that industry. There would be considerable regret if, for one reason or another, following the reports that are before the Government, it was found necessary to intrude at all into an arrangement that is working exceedingly well. 
As I mentioned earlier, the Department of Science is charged in the first instance with some of the less dramatic activities of government; but these activities are purposeful and productive. 
As the honourable member for Darling Downs says, the Department of Science is hard working. Perhaps it sets an admirable example for many other Australians who are not imbued with the same spirit. But, whether the Department's activities are directed towards the ice shelf in the Antarctic, to pasture research in the far north, to beef research at Belmont near Rockhampton or to any of the other numerous activities, it is an effort directed towards making Australia more productive and, as a consequence, a securer place in which Australians may enjoy the standard of living to which they may have become accustomed and from which they can expect an even greater bounty in the future. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Postal and Telecommunications Department 
Proposed expenditure, $164,446,000. 
-I wish to make a brief observation on a point on which the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  touched, namely, the provision of recreational facilities for airwomen. As a member of the Standing Committee on Public Works, I would certainly not like an opinion to be formed that the Committee has determined to eliminate this special accommodation for airwomen which is provided in the form of private recreational facilities. The Committee certainly holds the view that consistent with contemporary lifestyles separate recreational facilities could be redundant. That point was put at a public hearing at the Royal Australian Air Force base at Edinburgh. A response from the RAAF of a persuasive nature was forthcoming, but it did not completely dispel the Committee's view that a thorough survey of the personnel involved could establish whether these facilities that are traditionally provided may be somewhat redundant in our contemporary society. 
The thrust of the Committee's recommendation was, therefore, to establish once and for all whether the Air Force could quite properly adopt a mildly paternalistic attitude which would ensure that young entrants to the Air Force at least would be given some form of refuge so that they could determine the lifestyle to which they might wish to adjust. So the Committee would naturally be eager to have a response from the RAAF on the information that it seeks. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-From time to time matters of innocuous innocence come forward that scarcely seem to warrant the time of the House, but nevertheless the statutes and regulations required for good government must be attended to. This Bill arises from such a situation. The Public Service (Permanent HeadDual Appointment) Bill of 1977 simply authorises the appointment of one person to hold or to act in the office of Secretary to the Department of Overseas Trade and also the office of Secretary to the Department of the Special Trade Negotiator. The Bill is not a divisive attempt on the part of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to detract from the magnitude of the job being done by the Minister for Overseas Trade  Mr Anthony)  as was suggested by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson). 
In simple truth, since 1901 the international situation has become so varied and complex that it would defy the best intentions of any Minister for Overseas Trade to give the time necessary to contend with those barriers, both literary and figurative, that the European Economic Community has constructed with such severe impact on Australia's exporting industries. Rather than dissipate the strength and resources of the Minister for Overseas Trade and distract him from international undertakings in order to concentrate on the EEC, it is far more logical to have a special Minister to address himself to the EEC exclusively. Rather than expend the Minister for Overseas Trade on the barricades so erected, the special Minister can apply himself, persistently, to the task of finding the chinks m the EEC armour so that eventually reason and justice may prevail. This office has been established for that reason. It is nothing short of an outright mischief for the honourable member for Hughes to suggest that the establishment of this office in any way undermines the integrity or the reputation of the Minister for Overseas Trade. The reactivation of trade activities and investment activities, in regard to both trade and mineral development, since this Government came to office is so noteworthy as to indicate clearly the absurdity of the protests of the honourable member for Hughes. 
In brief, the background of this Bill relates to a government announcement on 17 July 1977 of the appointment of the Secretary to the Department of Overseas Trade,  Mr D.  H. McKay, as Acting Secretary of the newly created Department of the .Special Trade Negotiator. As the honourable member for Hughes pointed out, the instrument of appointment was published on 17 July 1977 only to be withdrawn immediately after when it became apparent that in some abstruse way this contravened regulations relating to such appointments. A correction was published subsequently. The Bill provides that a person who is Secretary to the Department of Overseas Trade may also be appointed or act as Secretary to the Department of the Special Trade Negotiator without affecting his tenure in the Department of Overseas Trade. 
The honourable member for Hughes made much play of the establishment of a new department. Rather than establish a traditional department with a new head, the Government had adopted the perfectly logical step of utilising not only the time but also the talents of the head of the Department of Overseas Trade in respect of the new instrumentality. This Government, more than any other government, has demonstrated clearly that it has no particular sympathy for the increased bureaucratisation of the forms of government. The Bill comes through quite clearly as being a very logical step to ensure that the best may be derived from the existing establishment rather than to engage in the type of empire building exercise which has characterised the Public Service and government instrumentalities in the past. No additional remuneration is payable to the Secretary or Acting Secretary of the Department of Overseas Trade by virtue of him holding a dual role. If there is any inconsistency between the provisions of the Bill and the Public Service Act of 1922 or the Remuneration Tribunal Act of 1973, the provisions of the BUI will prevail. There is also provision to make it clear that nothing in the Bill overrules the provisions of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901 which provide for continuity of appointment to permanent head positions, the names of which have been changed. 
When it comes to bizarre and unprecedented appointments, the previous Government demonstrated a talent which excelled any other capacity it may have had to bring an original twist to government. It is also pertinent to comment that that original twist may have been a very costly exercise with disastrous consequences for the economy of Australia. The honourable member for Hughes took considerable license in departing from the substance of the BUI which, as I said initially, is simplistic in the extreme. It was introduced into this House purely to remove a defect in the appointment, an inconsistency with the requirements that existed previously. For that reason I do not intend to delay the proceedings of the House. I recommend that the BUI be given a speedy passage. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. No doubt the Minister will be aware of the serious drought conditions prevailing in several areas of Australia. Is the Government being kept up to date with advice on the position? If so, what action does the Government propose if it becomes evident that assistance is necessary? 
-Before passing on to the more substantial elements of the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill 1977 1 would like to reply to the honourable member for Maribrynong  (Dr Cass).  It might surprise him to hear me say that I do not question his sincerity in espousing all of the potential evils that might spring from the power vested in the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to determine the nature and quality of the broadcasting and television systems we will have in this country. It seems to me that this device is the only insurance we have against those evils coming about because the Minister has no autocratic power to determine policies on the nature of broadcasting systems. He must first satisfy the Cabinet and he must satisfy this Parliament that things should be as proposed. More importantly, this Parliament must satisfy the people it represents that its actions in this regard can be defended. I would be loth to accept a situation in which this Parliament should not be answerable to the people of Australia as to how not only matters concerning broadcasting and television but all matters pertaining to a living society should be conducted. 
All the things that the honourable member for Maribyrnong proposed as evil possibilities could be perpetrated by an instrumentality if the power were handed over to it. It seems perfectly logical to me that the elected Government should determine the nature of our systems and, having done that, to hand over to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal the power to apply the statutes- not to usurp from the elected representatives the responsibility for determining the nature of the system but to apply the criteria determined by this Government as to the system we should have. As previously mentioned by the honourable memer for Bowman  (Mr Jull),  the Government parties communications committee, under the chairmanship of the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King),  has applied itself to this matter at great length and depth. It has received a great response from the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson),  who has been receptive to suggestions as to how the proposed legislation might be brought into better form. 
It is also impressive that this Bill, probably more than any other Bill, has provided access to interested parties over a long time to put their point of view fairly. I think it is also noteworthy that the Minister has gained some modest acclaim from those interested parties for the sensitivity and sympathy with which he has dealt with their propositions. The speakers for the Opposition, and the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  in particular seem to take great umbrage at the fact that the establishment of the Special Broadcasting Service would in some way deny the ethnic groups in Australia their due. I feel that it is a continuing indictment of this Parliament that we should perpetrate an attitude which suggests that ethnic groups should be any less than Australians. The suggestion that they should continually be contained in isolation within their ethnic characteristics seems to deny the very purpose for which they may have come to this country in the first place- presumably to become citizens of our land. Certainly the means should be provided to facilitate their transition from citizens of their former countries to citizens of Australia- not calling upon them to abandon all that is good and commendable from their cultures. We can stand only to profit from the introduction of those qualities into this land. 
The whole thrust of ethnic radio should be to facilitiate the assimilation of these people into the Australian society- not the subjugation of those people, but their assimilation. To suggest that this Parliament should hand over to any body at all the determination of the future of the people within those groups or sectors seems to be a great abrogation of the responsibilities of this Parliament. There is no question that under the Special Broadcasting Service ample opportunity will exist for those requirements of the ethnic groups to be met. I think that the Government is to be commended for substituting the term 'multi-lingual broadcasting' for the term 'ethnic broadcasting'. The latter suggests that the ethnic element must be a permanent feature of this land and this pre-supposes that immigration will be a continuing thing at the levels we have seen previously and that we will have a continuing quantum of new Australians within our community. It may well be the case that multi-lingual broadcasts are all-accommodating. No difficulty is anticipated in meeting the ambitions of the ethnic groups. Indeed, the establishment of the Special Broadcasting Service has been welcomed by those groups and the Government quite properly has met with their approbation. 
The Special Broadcasting Service also provides for an expansion of activities in the broadcasting and television field to meet other needs of this nation. A university of the air, Aboriginal services, broadcasts for the blind- all these things have distinct possibilities and this Government is sensitive to its responsibility in that area. The honourable member for Maribyrnong quite correctly pointed out that the previous Administration had been very active in the matter of issuing licences, in distinct contrast with the record over a considerable period of previous Liberal and National Country Party governments. What he overlooked was the fact that the Australian Labor Party's activities in that field did not necessarily meet with the approbation of the Australian people. It is all very well to do something but, unless it meets with popular consensus, rather than being acclaimed for what it might have done, the government should be condemned. I think it would be a wise course of action in the area of public broadcasting to adopt the process of gradualness because it would be a very simple thing, with the best enthusiasm in the world, to embark precipitately on the issue of licences, only to find because of their inadequacies proven by time, if that should be the case, that a mischief had been effected which could be very difficult to undo. 
The Government is not insensitive to meeting the needs of public broadcasting and all other facets of the broadcasting system but is bringing to it a responsibility which, under the previous Administration, was conspicuous by its absence. In addressing oneself to a Bill of this nature one should be aware that broadcasting and television services in Australia are not restricted to the great metropolitan areas. This year the weight and volume of the operations in those localities tended to put pressure on the Government to restrict the breadth of its thinking. It has been most essential in this instance that thought be given to rural and provincial services which may well have been swamped if the provisions of this Bill had given too great a latitude to the metropolitan stations. In the case of translators and relays, very particular care is necessary to ensure that commercial operators and indeed public broadcasters in the remoter areas are not seriously disadvantaged. The industry has put forward most persuasive submissions as to how this objective might be achieved. 
But it should not be presumed that the Government feels itself bound to respond to the commercial interests in this case. Of course there is a commercial influence. This Government believes in the private enterprise system and that necessarily implies a responsibility to ensure that, within reasonable parameters, the opportunity continues to exist for those operations to attain a reasonable profitability. Because profitability is the operative term, the Government cannot rely heavily or exclusively on the advice it may receive from commercial interests. If profitability has prevailed, it necessarily follows that commercial interests have met the requirements of the market place. It raises an interesting facet in the matter of self-regulation. I must confess that I am intrigued at the possibilities inherent in that proposal. If commercial interests must meet the market taste and demand, it necessarily follows that if they fail to supply what the market demands, their profitability will diminish. That brings us to an egg and chicken situation. If, as the public demonstrates, it has a capacity to be titillated by the bizarre or the improper, or perhaps even the obscene, the market situation demands that that appetite must be catered for. 
Because of the cash register, my friend. The Government certainly should have the right to govern whether or not this demand will be accommodated. It is the responsibility of the Government to ensure that within the Act it retains sufficient power to see that norms and standards of decency are maintained. It is not to be restrictive to the point of denying people the right to exercise imagination and initiative, or to fall back on what has served us well. The Government must maintain an independent stance in this area so that it is in a position to determine the nature of broadcasting and television services within this country. It is argued that this Bill is bringing politics into broadcasting rather than taking it out of broadcasting. Really, this is rather trite because it is often argued that nothing is free from politics. It depends entirely on the connotations or the term. If it is implied that politics, of necessity, must embody an evil, there is little point in striving to reach a level of purity and responsibility in what we do. There must be a political consideration in all matters concerning broadcasting because politics represents the views of the people. Of course there will be a divergence of view but there must be a continuing sensitivity to the political climate, the political view, to ensure that our political establishment can be provided with the opportunity to go about its business without any undue stress or pressure from instrumentalities or devices which may be established which would subvert the functioning of democratic parliament. Any government has the responsibility to ensure that that situation is maintained. 
People who feel some apprehension about certain ingredients of the Bill express some reservations as to whether the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, or an alternative Minister or a replacement Minister, should have the power to exercise his own personal brand of mischief. All honourable members will appreciate that should there be a change of government, it is well within the capacity of that Minister and that government to introduce legislation which may achieve its objectives. It may well be argued that there is small logic in predisposing a situation which would facilitate the ambitions of a government which may come into office, different from that which introduced the legislation. It is a matter of understandable concern to the people who, from their lack of understanding, may express that doubt but the people of a nation are continually at the mercy of the government in office at the time. This, of course, is a most potent exhortation to people to address themselves to the quality of the government, the form of the government, to keep these matters in mind. This comes back to the views expressed by the honourable member for Maribyrnong that all the Government might do will not necessarily meet with the approbation of the people. There comes a time for the people to make a judgment, and the judgment that was demonstrated on a date painfully familiar to the honourable member could well have signified that there was some considerable disquiet in the mind of the public about some of the measures introduced by the previous Administration with regard to broadcasting and television. 
On the matter of public input, the honourable member for Maribyrnong put a persuasive point that perhaps there is not as full an access as one might like for the individua, the public and the minority groups and sections. That is not without persuasion, but we must also be cautious there because what, in effect in a population of 14 million, represents a responsible and substantial minority view? How often do we find within our society, even in a small rural community or city, that in any association or organisation it always falls back to the hard workers or to the few who have a particular interest or attitude to undertake the burden. This comes forward as an expression of view from a sector. In actual fact, it is not necessarily so. It could be an expression of view of some people who, with commendable motivation, have an attitude. These are the people who appear before tribunals and bodies of inquiry, and it would be fallacious for this Parliament to assume automatically that these viewpoints put forward by the minorities and individuals must necessarily require the Government to adopt them into the broadcasting and television systems. It must certainly take note of the points. This Parliament, this society, tends more and more to adopt the attitude that if someone somewhere jumps up and insists that something or other be done, we are bound to do it. This is something we must resist. We have the Festival of Light. I canvass no argument on the quality or merit of its stance. 
-It is entitled to express its views. 
-It will certainly be entitled to express its views. There is no question about its right to express its view, but to what extent it prevails will depend on the objectivity with which this Parliament addresses itself to the matter. The Bill is a timely Bill, notwithstanding the fact that the Opposition argues that it has been introduced with indecent haste. It is necessary that we bring some order to the situation while waiting on the self regulation provisions at a later time. This Bill, when passed, although fully adequate in itself is subject to amendment as circumstances require the Government to do so. I certainly oppose the amendment moved by the Opposition. I commend the Bill to the House. 

 -Mr Speaker, I thank the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and honourable gentlemen for their congratulatory remarks. When accepting nomination for this position, by proper party room processes, I was encouraged by two thoughts: Firstly, the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  occupied the Chair as  Deputy Chairman  after four years of service in the Parliament and, secondly, the National Country Party of Australia has an impeccable record in providing the House with  deputy  speakers and  chairman  of committees of talent and wide acclaim. On that basis I was encouraged to believe that the judgment demonstrated in the past would be no less reliable on this occasion. Time will tell whether the judgment is wise. I simply acquaint the House with the fact that I came to the Parliament to serve this House and to serve the nation. I shall continue to do that. By applying myself diligently, conscious of the responsibility which I bear, I hope that in some modest way I can maintain the form of the House to ensure that honest men may assemble to engage honestly in advancing the affairs of the nation. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The point of order is sustained. I ask the honourable member for Burke to withdraw the remark. 
-There is no substance to the point of order. 
The Government ought to talk about jobs for the boys. I know how this came about. In August last year,  Mr Arblaster,  a member of the New South Wales Parliament and a former senior vice-president of the Liberal Party, met Kerr at Kirribilli House where they thrashed it all out. At that stage, Kerr was refusing to grant a dissolution of parliament. The next night Kerr met the Prime Minister at Kirribilli House, then hey presto, it was decided that the dissolution would be granted. 
Motion (by  Mr Clyde  Cameron) proposed: 
That the honourable member for Hindmarsh be granted an extension of time. 

Order! Would honourable members refrain from congesting the corridors and reserve their congratulations on a well delivered speech until a later stage of the evening. I call the honourable member for Leichhardt. 
I would like to thank the electors of Leichhardt for returning me to this place for a second term. It is the first time since Federation that a member of the Government parties has been returned in the seat of Leichhardt for a second term. In fact, between Federation and 1975 the Government parties held the seat for only 18 months, lt is a very large, complex and difficult electorate. It encompasses an area measuring about 1,200 kilometers from north to south and 1,200 kilometers from east to west. It is made more complex by the fact that it contains over 20 inhabited islands, including the islands of the Torres Strait. I was interested to hear the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  speak today of the problems of representing a very large electorate. He said that the people in large electorates do not get equal representation. 
A large electorate such as Leichhardt suffers from the tyranny of distance and, because of that, from very poor communications. In the last year there has been a number of Government initiatives which have helped to reduce that tyranny of distance. I shall refer to them very briefly. They include the provision of television translators- not enough, but certainly we have some. The provision of some translators has been delayed through, I believe, neglect or the giving of a low priority in the Telecommunications Commission. Approval was given for an Australian Broadcasting Commission transmitter on Thursday Island at the beginning of last year. It was supposed to be in operation by December this year and construction has not yet been started. This is due largely to technical difficulties which have now been solved. They took a very long time to be solved. There now seems to be an argument- an unseemly argument- between departments over the provision of funds. I hope that this problem will be solved within the next few days. 
A major initiative is the promise by the Government to provide television facilities for eight centres in the Gulf of Carpentaria and Cape York Peninsula areas. The people who live in these areas, who have very few of the benefits of civilisation, within the next few years will have television facilities. The major advance is the promise to introduce petrol prices equalisation. In October last year I made a speech calling for petrol prices equalisation to within lc of city prices. That has been agreed to by the Government. The Government has said that in this session it will introduce legislation to put that into effect. I hope that it does so very soon and I hope that the Queensland Parliament will introduce complementary legislation so that people in the remote areas will cease to be so disadvantaged in the provision of energy resources. 
A major problem in this area is related to Telecom. This was covered very well today by the honourable member for Calare  (Mr MacKenzie)  and I endorse all his remarks. There is no doubt that the country areas are neglected in the provision of Telecom facilities. We should cease spending money on luxuries for the cities until the country people have the bare essentials. In rural Australia there has been a number of very good initiatives. These were covered very largely by the honourable member for EdenMonaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  today. He also covered a subject in which I am very interested, namely, the effect of the very high tariff barriers on rural Australia. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  late last year said that compensation should be given to rural Australia for the costs caused by the very high tariffs. I think many of us will miss the honourable Bert Kelly, the former member for Wakefield who spoke so clearly on this subject. 
It is difficult in a short speech to cover very much, but I wish to cover one very important subject. It concerns the defence of the nation. Several speeches have been made today about defence. I was concerned that the GovernorGeneral 's Speech gave such cursory recognition to defence- one or two short paragraphs. I want to speak about one particular area, namely, that of surveillance. This subject was covered yesterday by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen).  Very briefly, he posed the problems and told us about the vast costs involved. I am particularly concerned about this problem because I represent an electorate with a very long coastline. I think it is ten times the length of the coastline of New South Wales. Surveillance is vital for this area. It is an isolated area and unless we improve surveillance we will experience many problems, not only defence problems but also problems of drugs and refugees coming into the area. We need an urgent investigation of what should be done in this area. 
I suggest four questions: We have to decide what is needed to provide adequate and economic surveillance. I am not going to go into detail on equipment. That is a job for the experts. Many suggestions have been made. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  made some sensible suggestions today. I think they should be followed up. The second question is: What can we afford? We must be able to afford what we need in this vital area. Thirdly, who should control the surveillance resources? There are two types of surveillance- defence surveillance and civilian surveillance. Defence surveillance is selfexplanatory. Civilian surveillance at the moment is covered by a number of government departments assisted whenever possible by the defence forces. I believe that the control of all the resources for surveillance should be placed under one command or one organisation. The obvious organisation to do this is the Department of Defence through the defence forces. The defence forces have the organisation, the communications and the training to do this work. 
The fourth factor is who should pay for the resources required to undertake civilian surveillance. I do not believe it is fair to ask that this expenditure come out of the defence vote. It is not to do with defence, although it may well be that the equipment required will be some sort of defence equipment. The equipment required should be decided upon so that it is simple and effective. Defence equipment must be chosen for performance rather than economy. The equipment we need for civilian surveillance should be economical as well as capable of adequate performance. I hope that we will have a debate upon such surveillance during this session of the Parliament. It is a subject in which many Australians are showing a great deal of interest. I propose in a speech I delivered about two years ago that we should improve the system of coast watching. There are all sorts of ways of doing that. I hope that the matter will be followed up. 
I would like to deal now with the situation of one or two industries in my electorate. The first is tourism. It is probably becoming the largest single industry in the electorate. The far north of Australia is an exciting and different place. 
Another very serious problem is the situation in the beef industry. The beef industry generally has suffered very greatly over the last three or four years, but in my area there is a particular problem. A type of bluetongue virus called CSIRO 19 has been discovered in Northern Australia. It was discovered in the Northern Territory initially and it has now been discovered in north Queensland. To protect the beef export market and the sheep flocks of Australia, the Commonwealth and the States have declared what they call a bluetongue line. It includes a good deal of the Northern Territory and all of the Cape York Peninsula, which is in my electorate. Cattle cannot be moved south of this line to market or for any other reason without undergoing a fairly complex system of testing, which I will not go into here. 
The problem will be realised when I point out that there are three quarters of a million cattle north of this bluetongue line. The restrictions which are imposed by the bluetongue line are costing the industry a very great deal and are having disastrous effects in the area. There is the cost of mustering, the cost of holding for testing and the loss of sales. In that area there are mostly store cattle, which are moved south for fattening. In the past month because of the line prices for store cattle have dropped from $100 to $60, a drop of $40. No industry can afford that sort of drop in a month. The prices a month ago were low enough anyway. 
I should like to talk briefly about the tobacco industry. In my electorate 43 per cent of all the tobacco grown in Australia is produced. Two towns, Mareeba and Dimbulah, depend entirely upon tobacco. No alternative crop is possible because of problems of distribution of primary produce in that area. Negotiations for a new stabilisation plan for five years from 1979 are under way. I do hope that there will be speedy agreement because growers are suffering losses due to both the price and the amount they are allowed to sell under the present agreement. On the other hand, manufacturers are announcing huge profits. I believe that there must be a balance between the problems of the producers and the very large profits of the manufacturers. The growers must be given a fair go. I hope that the Government will do all it can to ensure that the growers, who are very efficient and produce very high quality tobacco, are given a fair go. In a controlled industry the Government has a lot of say. 
I should like to turn briefly to the fishing industry. On 31 March Australia will proclaim a 200-mile fishing zone around Australia. That was mentioned briefly yesterday by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen).  This zone is going to cause many problems in surveillance and defence. It is going to cause problems and challenges for the fishing industry also. More than half of the fish eaten in Australia is imported from overseas. That is ridiculous when we have very rich fishing grounds which we could exploit. As soon as this 200 nautical miles fishing zone is declared we should act to encourage the fishing industry to exploit the resources of the sea. The world needs protein very badly. We should be able to provide the world with protein with our fishing fleets. We should be very careful about how many fishermen from other nations are allowed into the 200 nautical miles zone. I hope that there will be a system of licensing and that the proceeds of the system will be used towards the cost of surveillance in the area. That would seem to be a very good trade-off. 
There are many other things one could say about a big electorate. As I said, a big electorate is a complex matter. I believe that one of the major problems is the increasing differential between people living in the cities and people living in rural areas. This has become much more marked in the past few years. The imbalance in facilities and services between rural areas and the cities is very great. The cities are really getting all the benefits from civilisation- of course, with some of the disadvantages- but the country areas particularly the more remote areas, are suffering very badly. Great efforts must be made to redress that imbalance. I hope that this Parliament and the honourable members who represent city electorates will take an understanding view of the problems. I invite city members to visit the Far North. Very few have done so. Some of them have accepted invitations in the last few years. The honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton)  has been there twice, I think, in the last year or so. I would welcome visitors. If honourable members understand the problems they will certainly give a more sympathetic hearing to requests for measures to redress the imbalance of the services given to people in rural areas. 

Order! Before calling the honourable member for Batman I remind the House that the honourable member is about to make his maiden speech. I ask the House to observe the usual courtesy of listening to the honourable member without interruption. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Order! The Minister's time has expired. The discussion is concluded. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Has the Minister for Trade and Resources seen reports suggesting that cane growers will be forced to destroy 2 million tonnes of cane this year because of restrictions placed on them by the new International Sugar Agreement? Do those reports accurately reflect the position. 
-Can the Minister for Health inform me of the percentages of successful appeals to the social security appeals tribunals in each of the States? In the event of a significant disparity, could the Minister explain the seeming anomaly? 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I have received a letter from the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The Government's failure in energy policy and its indifference to alternate energy research and energy conservation. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

-The honourable member for Capricornia will address his remarks to the Chair. 
State administered settlements were not attaining those standards. 
This is a dangerous man in charge of Queensland. It is for this Parliament to stop him before he blinds more people as he did by interfering in the eye care program, before he kills more infants and before he damages more brains by his unenlightened and completely untrue account of what is going on in Queensland. I ask the Minister to refer this matter to the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs which, I am sure, will be discussing it in any case under its present terms of reference. I ask the Minister to reassure the House that he will live up to his obligation and ensure that legislation is produced in time to stop this takeover by Queensland, otherwise Aboriginals will be brain-washed into accepting what the mining interests want by a man who has become rich on mining speculation- the Premier of Queensland. 
-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Sitting suspended from 5.50 to 8 p.m. 
-The House is engaged in the dying hours of debating the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply to the Governor-General's Speech in anticipation of its presentation to the GovernorGeneral tomorrow. The debate does little more than reflect the great disparity of view that exists between the two sides of politics in this House. It is inevitable that the Address-in-Reply should have attracted an amendment from the Opposition, which emphasises again the lack of commonality of view and the continuing concern that Australian people cannot come to some accord on the requirements necessary to re-establish our nation on a sound footing. I am inclined to say that the solution to out dilemma probably lies somewhere between the divergent views. It is an inevitable requirement of overcoming our present dilemma that there should be some common understanding among Australians as to the nature of our dilemma and the formula that might lead us into the more prosperous times that Australia might freely regard as its entitlement, being a land that is so bountifully served by national resources. 
It is absurd for the Opposition, with all due respect, to argue that wage levels and standards of living can be maintained with total disregard to the overall economic situation, just as it is folly on the part of private enterprise to believe that that term should be construed as a licence to rape, pillage and exploit as distinct from a situation in which people will be fairly rewarded for initiative, enterprise, energy and risk. As a nation, as a people, we have to accept the fact that we are required to live within our means. It is true, as I am convinced can be proved by the record, that we have for some considerable time within the total political spectrum embarked further and further into a fool's paradise. Australia, as a trading nation, is required to meet the market conditions prevailing in the trading world. We have increasingly priced ourselves out of that market. We have lost competitiveness and we have been required virtually to retreat from the exposed position in which we found ourselves to another position where we can consolidate and advance again. We are precariously exposed under enemy fire- if I may speak in analogous terms- and it is prudent that we should withdraw- not retreat- consolidate and advance again. 
If the work force persists in the folly that improved wage and award conditions are preeminent it does so in ignorance of the fact that the best job conditions on earth are worthless if one does not have a job. Jobs can be made available through only two sources- through a vibrant and vital private enterprise system or through a socialist edifice which creates jobs without necessarily having regard for economic viability. We are faced with the fundamental choice of opting for one of two types of society. Whilst I would not advance either of them as representing near perfection I suggest that the record, consistent with the Australian character, would show the advantages to the average Australian to be most predominantly on the side of the free enterprise system. 
I wish tonight to make some reference to the Governor-General's Speech. In it he said: 
Emphasis will be given to assisting Aboriginals to become more self-sufficient and acquire the skills to manage their own affairs. 
New  initiatives  will be undertaken concerning Aboriginal health, alcohol abuse and juvenile welfare, and the Government looks forward to the fullest consultation with the National Aboriginal Conference and the Council for Aboriginal Development on these and all other issues affecting Aboriginals. 
I have quoted that section of the GovernorGeneral's Speech because for some time I have been sorely troubled by a domestic problem in the city of Maryborough, which is within the electorate of Wide Bay. A number of my constituents have had less than their due by being circumstantially the victims of a national conscience. I shall trace the background to this situation. It came to my attention some two and a half years ago- in about September 1975- when I returned to my electorate from Parliament on a Friday. All honourable members would be painfully familiar with what is involved in that regard. On taking a position in my electorate office to conduct interviews, I had three or four Aboriginal people, male and female, attend my office. Uncharacteristically, it was a wet and miserable day in Maryborough, Queensland. These people had been living on the bank of the Mary River. They were Aborigines and were for all practical purposes destitute, without shelter and without future. They sat on the other side of my desk. They had a problem that would not go away. It demanded the maximum of my attention. For two hours they sat there with plaintive expressions, probably suggesting a greater competence on my part to help them than was consistent with the truth of the matter. I felt bound to do what I could do. 
Happily I was aware that it was the intention of the Federal Government of the day to fund the acquisition of some houses in Maryborough in which these people might be accomodated. So my course of action was to endeavour to accelerate the funding of those houses so that these people might occupy them at the earliest possible time. It was not possible that afternoon to achieve that objective, but by dint of most impressive co-operation from citizens of Maryborough, particularly the trustees of the showground, we were able to take the people off the river bank and accommodate them in one of the buildings at the showground. The trustees consciously took some risk because, tragically, it is commonly known that whilst there are some impressive instances of Aboriginal assimilation there are many instances where the reverse is the case. Yet the trustees of the showground, on their individual judgment and without reference to those to whom they were responsible, exposed themselves and the property of the showground to the whim or the degree of responsibility of these people. In some few weeks they were accommodated in dwellings in Maryborough. That was in 1975. 
The white neighbours in the immediate vicinity understandably were mildly apprehensive. But I say without any reservations whatsoever that the ambition of the neighbours of these newly settled Aboriginal people was laudable. They felt that it was their responsibility as Australian citizens to try to facilitate the assimilation of those Aboriginal people. They tried very hard. But the tragic fact of the matter is that for two and a half years the neighbours of the Aboriginal families in Sussex and Alice Streets, Maryborough, have been subjected to an experience that is grossly unfair. They have, in effect, borne the national guilt. 
The nation has accepted, through both the present Government and the former Labor Government, that the Aborigine has been less than fairly treated and there is almost an excess of zeal in repairing the deficiencies and making amends. Whilst that enthusiasm is to be applauded, it is regrettable that this mass enthusiasm should be concentrated on a few Australians who are left to bear the burden of the national guilt. The tragedy of it is that, with $44,650 being made available in September 1975 to purchase three houses in that year, it could have worked well, but for two and a half years there has been an unending series of disruptive and disorderly incidents. I have approached the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  on a number of occasions. I have spoken to the Department on countless occasions. The stock answer is that these Aboriginal people are Australian citizens, they are residents of Maryborough and they are answerable to the laws, the ordinances and the norms, just as any other citizen might be. At first blush that seems to be a perfectly reasonable proposition, but it presupposes that those conditions will contain the position. That is not so. 
The Minister says: 'If there is disorderly behaviour, contact the police; if there is a health or congestion situation, contact the health officer'. All these things have been done to a point of absolute tedium. The police are tired of coming out. It is a situation of startling frequency, night after night, quite often. I have stood in neighbouring houses and listened for 15 or 20 minutes to the vile language and the disorderly, almost riotous, behaviour. I grieve for the small Aboriginal children with their beautiful, wide, innocent, brown eyes, knowing that they are growing up in an environment such as that. I have seen Aborigines themselves leaving the house to ring the police. This goes on time after time after time. 
In a number of cases the neighbours are railway workers. They are required to take trains to Gladstone or some other considerable distance. They have to leave their homes, their wives and their children in a situation which is mildly explosive. The language is obscene. There is a latent threat in terms of human behaviour. Yet the Government says: 'We can do nothing about it. We have entered into this arrangement. We have shut off the escape route. The Aborigines own the properties. They are required to eject people or to discipline themselves. Maybe that is a good idea if people within that group will discipline themselves, but it is difficult to identify who must be disciplined. There could be 1 8, 20 or 25 people in the house. They come and go. One is sympathetic to their particular problem. They have tribal or racial characteristics that make that sort of behaviour the norm. 
But we cannot blind ourselves to the fact that some Austraiian citizens of Maryborough are now in a situation in which the values of their properties have been eroded, if not destroyed. They cannot be disposed of; they cannot be sold. These people live under the continuing irritation of a sense of threat. They are concerned for their families because of the violence, the disorderliness and all the other characteristics that turn an otherwise tranquil urban situation into one of high trauma. I mentioned earlier the excess of zeal under which we have expended hundreds of millions of dollars and yet have created a situation that not only transfers the national guilt to a few people but also undermines the prospect for assimilating the Aborigine because an inevitable consequence of this situation must be that if it were suggested that further homes be purchased in Maryborough, or the Maryboroughs of Australia, it would arouse an absolute storm of protest. So, this evening in this Address-in-Reply debate I speak for those people in Maryborough, Queensland, and for those people throughout our land who might be similarly situated and who are bearing the national guilt. I appeal to all those people who might have some contribution to make to remedying this situation to apply themselves with earnestness and diligence because presently it exists as a cancer in our society, harmful to those people who are innocent victims of it. It is certainly counter-productive to the ambitions for the advancement of the Aboriginal people. 
In the few minutes remaining to me I would like to say that, whilst the Governor-General in his Speech felt free to state that Australians now look to the future with new found confidence, that confidence must be conditional. Whilst our nation's prospects are limitless and by working together Australians can overcome the great challenges of unemployment and inflation and restore our nation's economy to full vitality, it must be accepted that that state can be achieved only if we are realistic and meet the conditions of the market place. It is quite legitimate and proper for the work force to exploit the market place in terms of value for its labour and skills. It does not seem to me to be illogical that the work force is required to retreat within the market place if values diminish. Values must diminish if we price ourselves out of markets and destroy job opportunities. 
I had the opportunity to visit Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore as a member of a parliamentary delegation. I was both impressed and concerned to see the extent of the off-shore establishment of Austraiian industries and to know that in fact that costs Australian jobs at home. On economic grounds those industries could not pursue their activities in Australia because it would be uneconomic. So we have exported those jobs. It must stand to reason that if we export jobs we reduce the prospects for Australian workers. Within the parameters of responsibility and proprietary, the work force must accept the fact that its labour and skills are worth only what the market will bring, and what the market can pay is conditioned by the trading arrangements and prospects that prevail. Conversely, private enterprise cannot expect to maintain or to maximise profits in a similar market situation. We have to be realistic enough to realise that all the theories and all the philosophies that are put forward will not feed people. We are born into a world in which we are not exempted from the requirement to toil and labour for our daily needs. 
In the pursuit of that objective one can only hope that everybody involved will derive a fanshare of the national bounty. A 'fair share ' is not to be confused with an equal share which pays no regard whatsoever to variations in energy, initiative and all those other qualities that distinguish one person from another. I put aside those people who are denied exploitation of opportunity by some misfortune which has left them physically or mentally handicapped. Whilst the Government quite admirably adheres to its resolve that inflation must first be arrested, we cannot ignore the fact that there is small reward in taking inflation completely under control if in the process we all wither on the vine. It would be a pyrrhic victory indeed. Certainly unless inflation is contained there is no prospect for us all. It requires a continuing balance between the requirements and the needs of all sectors of the community. 
It is a folly indeed if the Australian people believe that they can persist in this extravagant style of living in what over recent years has become nothing more than a fool's paradise. Australia has sufficient potential bounty to allow more than a fair reward to all Australians, more than the present population, but we must keep our feet on the ground and recognise that there must be incentive for people to work. There must be a fair reward for their endeavours. Unless we can bridge this gulf between the two philosophies and accept that the truth lies between the two poles, we can only stumble on into a future devoid of the light of optimism and hope. 
-The discussion is concluded. 
-I inform the House that, accompanied by honourable members,  Mr Speaker  waited today upon  His Excellency  the Governor-General at Government' House, and presented to him the Address-in-Reply to  His  Excellency's Speech on the opening of the first session of the Thirty-first Parliament, agreed to by the House on 1 5 March 1978. 
His Excellency was pleased to make the following reply: 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Order! It being 1 1 p.m., the debate is interrupted. The House stands adjourned until tomorrow at 2.15 p.m. 
House adjourned at 1 1 p.m. 

 -Mr Speaker has received a letter from the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The failure of the Minister for Trade and Resources in Japan to defend Australia's trading interests. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
The Committee made other recommendations - 
In other words I referred to the other recommendations, which the honourable member said I did not-  but I think it is important to note these that I quoted as they provide a sound rebuttal to our more radical environmentalists. 
I was not talking about every environmentalist; I was talking about our more radical environmentalists. Perhaps it would be a good idea if the honourable member actually read what was said. 

 Mr COHEN (Robertson)- I wish to make a personal explanation. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Order! 
-There is no substance in the point of order. For the information of the honourable member, the Minister may - 

 -Mr Speaker has received a letter from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The misleading statements on Aboriginal welfare by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 


 Mi HAYDEN (Oxley-Leader of the Opposition) (2.15)- The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  is an agreeable man- so agreeable, in fact, that he is able to agree at the same time to two conflicting policies on Aboriginal welfare. On the one hand, publicly, he pretends to support Aboriginal welfare programs which are of the same nature as those which the Aboriginal movement presents and on the other, privately, he enters into sleazy, secret deals with the Queensland Government, allowing the Government of that State to maintain raciallybased policies on Aboriginal welfare. Unfortunately it is policies of the latter kind that stick. There is no doubt that the problems that have been confronting the nation in recent times, arising from the Queensland Government's thoroughly inexcusable and quite unacceptable behaviour towards the missions at Aurukun and Mornington Island, impose themselves on the Minister and his Government because of his fickle and inconstant role as Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. The secret deals into which he entered and the ground he constantly gave away under pressure from the Queensland Government incited the Queensland Government to act outrageously. 
A wide range of legislative power is available to the Australian Government. It could have been applied with considerable effect in Queensland to establish and preserve the basic rights of Aboriginal people in that State. In no single instance was that wide range of authority adopted. I refer, for instance, to the Aboriginal Land Fund Act, the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Discriminatory Laws) Act, the Racial Discrimination Act, the Aboriginal Lands and Associations Act. Not only did the Government not apply these authorities available to it but also the evidence is that the Minister positively prohibited their use. For instance, the Office of the Commissioner for Community Relations has reported scathingly about the racist attitudes permeating the Queensland Government's Aboriginal welfare policy. It said in an official report: 
An authority on the Queensland legislation has pointed out 'that the administration of reserves has created not independence but a repressive and demoralised dependence'. 
It went on to point out that the whole administration of Aboriginal welfare in Queensland by that State Government is infected with these racist overtones. In spite of that, not only was the authority under the Racial Discrimination Act not adopted but also the evidence is that the Minister prevented it from being adopted in defence of Aboriginal rights. The authority under the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders (Queensland Discriminatory Laws) Act not only was not adopted but also was prevented from being adopted by the tactics accepted by the Australian Government under pressure from the Queensland Government. For instance, under State legislation it is permissible for the Director of Aboriginal Affairs to take away the savings and property of Aboriginals in Queensland, to cut wages, to control their movements, to deny them the sanctity of their home, and to separate spouses from their families which are left on reserves. These thoroughly unacceptable and outmoded racist principles have been enshrined in the legislation and policies on Aboriginal welfare of the Queensland Government. It is alien to the international conventions that we have adopted. But not once has the Minister taken firm action on these matters. I repeat that the evidence is to the contrary, that is, that the Minister has positively prevented the authority being used. 
I have a copy of a letter which he signed and sent to  Dr Rowley,  the  Chairman  of the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission, dated 3 February of this year in which he said: 
Your letter of 7 December 1977 was also the first advice to me that the Commission had taken relevant legal advice in respect of the Racial Discrimination Act. Not having been consulted on a matter of such evident policy significance, I am not prepared to give any assurance that funds would be available. 
By itself that might not have seemed so significant, although it is certainly worrying; but in association with other matters for which the Minister has been responsible, clearly what he was seeking to do was to impose a fiscal discrimination, a fiscal prohibition, on the Land Fund Commission which was very rightly seeking to exercise the authority available to it to protect the rights of Aboriginals in Queensland. That was misleading behaviour on the part of the Minister. He sought to mislead Aboriginals. He sought to mislead the Australian population. He sought to mislead this Parliament by pretending that he was a man of genuine compassion in these matters. 
Another matter concerns the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Act of 1976. It was assented to in December 1976. It was an important piece of legislation. It gave Aboriginals the right to incorporate. That meant very simply that for the first time, if the law was effective and they could take it up, they could incorporate and establish land right claims- possess land through the proper processes of acquiring it. But the legislation was never proclaimed. It is not even proclaimed now, although yesterday belatedly, in the face of the miasma that he has made for himself through the craven way in which he has conceded so much to Queensland, he indicated some amendments to the Act. Some 15 or 16 months after his own legislation had been assented to, it has not been proclaimed. The more important thing is that it has not been proclaimed because the Queensland Government objected to its being proclaimed. The Queensland Government resented the principles involved in it coming into practice. On 10 December 1976 it wrote a letter protesting against this matter. Yet the Minister, in September 1977, had the gall to say in replying to a question from the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  that he hoped to proclaim the Act very shortly. He knew then that he had no intention of proclaiming it. Queensland had made sure that the law was a dead letter from the Start. So again he was misleading the 
Parliament and he was misleading the people, including the Aboriginal people. 
On the matter of land, which is directly related to that subject I have discussed, he again failed dismally. In 1 977, in the face of resistance from the Queensland Government when the Land Fund Commission sought to acquire land at Archer River near Aurukun- more importantly, near Comalco Ltd- it was indicated that he was considering what the next step ought to be. It was indicated that he considered the matter of great importance. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said in the Parliament: 
The Minister for Lands refused to approve the transfer and that is where the matter stands at the moment except that the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs are considering what the next step ought to be. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs knew that there would be no more steps because on 19 January 1977, in a letter to the Prime Minister, the Premier gave the game away. We happen to have a copy of that letter. He indicated that there had been an arrangement- a secret, shoddy deal- between the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and the Queensland Government to ensure that the expectations of the Aboriginal people in this matter would not be met. Furthermore, the evidence of the letter makes it clear that despite the undertaking that the Prime Minister gave that there was concern- by implication, that the Government was still committed to achieving land rights for Aboriginals in this area- when he said to the Parliament that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs was still considering what steps to take on the matter, he had no intention of considering the matter further. A letter of 19 January from the Premier's office in Brisbane to the Prime Minister says in one part: 
I note the assurances given in your letter of 9 December that your Government will not meet any request from the proposed Council for assistance. 
This refers to the land at Archer River which I mentioned before. In another part of the letter he said: 
My immediate concern is that the recent land purchases by the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission are in direct conflict with State policies. 
We well know what those policies are. The people who moved to old Mapoon mission area were quickly forced out by what can be described as nothing short of coercion on the part of the Queensland Government. They are the policies- policies of assimilation, policies of restriction and policies designed to prevent the Aboriginal people from establishing a clearer sense of cultural identity and the achievement of land rights, freedom and independence; those things which importantly go with acquisition of land and land rights, but more importantly for Aboriginals. The most disturbing part of the letter is that the Premier goes on to say: 
Of course the Commission is quite competent to purchase and to hold the lands involved. 
In spite of the Commission's competency and in spite of the concession by the Queensland Government that it was compatible for the Land Fund Commission to buy this land, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs was prepared to enter into this shoddy deal which grossly misled the Parliament and the nation. In February 1977, scarcely 2 months later he was giving encouragement and hope in the Parliament to Aboriginal people and to the community who share concern for Aboriginals. The Minister may well be a charming person but on the evidence here he is nothing more than a smiling double-dealer as far as his ministerial responsibility is concerned. He expressed concern about racism and yet he erected fiscal barriers to ensure that the Land Fund Commission would not be able to protect the rights of Aboriginals in Queensland against the incursion of the racist policies of that State Government. He introduced the Aboriginal (Councils and Associations) Act to allow Aboriginals to incorporate their presence so that they could acquire land. The legislation was passed but some 15 or 16 months later he has still not arranged for the legislation to be proclaimed. Indeed, a letter from the Queensland Government of 10 December was obviously the influential force that persuaded the Government not to proceed with this matter. 
On the matter of land acquisition in the Archer River area- a matter of considerable importance to the Land Fund Commission, to the Aboriginal people and to the Minister- he encouraged people as recently as 7 December 1976 to believe that the Government would do something about the matter, when in fact, the evidence is that on 9 December 1976 a letter went from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to the Premier of Queensland giving an undertaking that nothing would be done. A letter dated 9 December 1976 would have been prepared well before that date and would have been the product of consultation between the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and the Prime Minister; that is, before 7 December when the undertaking was given in the Parliament by the Minister. Again he misled the Australian people and the Parliament on several scores. 
I come now to the Land Fund Commission which is in the process of getting its comeuppance because of its efforts to protect Aboriginal people. The penalty it is going to pay arises because it is not prepared to stick to the elaborate fiction that the Minister likes to broadcast that we have a government concerned about Aboriginal rights and welfare. In a letter sent to  Senator Keeffe  the Minister said: 
No directive, instruction or advice has been issued to the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission restricting its acquisition program in Queensland. 
What the Minister made clear in a letter to  Dr Rowley  on 3 February is:   . . firstly, that the Commission inform the Minister before entering into any land negotiations in Queensland; secondly, that the Commission provide to the Minister details of any Aboriginal corporation involved in any land projects; and, thirdly, that the Commission not complete any proposed land purchase without first consulting the Minister? 
On the face of it, perhaps these are reasonable requirements in terms of fiscal responsibility but in association with the evidence I have produced of the way in which secret and sleazy deals have been entered into between the Minister and the Queensland Government, fiscal responsibility and fiscal controls had nothing to do with it. What the Minister was seeking to do was to geld the operations of the Land Fund Commission. These are all serious matters. What the Minister sought to do was to hobble the Commission. A letter dated 14 July 1977 is further evidence of this. The Minister wrote to  Mr Tomkins,  the then Minister for Lands in Queensland and said: 
I can assure you that the Land Fund Commission will not be proceeding with negotiations for purchase of Glenore Station. 
That communication was conveyed to the Prime Minister by the Queensland Premier. The real reason for this is that the Queensland Government asserts that it is opposed to Aboriginal land rights because it believes that it leads to a dispersion of Aboriginal residents in mission areas and, presumably, it is not able to impose as much control as it would wish over Aboriginal people. 
Finally, I refer to a minute of a meeting in the Minister's office on 14 March this year. It is clear from this that, contrary to what the Minister has been saying, he directed that a Cabinet submission be prepared proposing the incorporation of the Land Fund Commission into an Aboriginal entitlement capital account. It is clear that the direction came from him and not departmental officers. The evidence is that the departmental officers were not happy with the idea. Furthermore, all members who have had experience as Ministers will know that when Cabinet submissions are prepared, any changes that follow are of minor detail. The outline is given to the officials by the Government. Again, the Minister has misled the Parliament and he cannot be trusted. 
I ask the Minister for Health: Has the Government given consideration to establishing a firm basis for determining the minimum patient contribution for nursing home patients when future increases in pensions are granted? 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I uphold the point of order. 
-The House stands adjourned until Tuesday, 2 May next, at 2.15 p.m., unless  Mr Speaker  shall, by telegram or letter addressed to each member of the House, fix an alternative day or hour of meeting. 
-If the honourable member is attempting to raise a point of order I inform him that what arrangements are made is not a matter of concern to the Chair. There is no point of order. 
-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Prime Minister said that I did not understand the situation. He went on to say:   . . what is proposed by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition is a nonsense suggestion. 
I now draw the attention of the House to the fact that the honourable gentleman on 24 April in Alice Springs said that a judicial inquiry would fully protect all witnesses called to give evidence and would allow the full testing and probing of evidence. 
-The honourable member may not refer to a debate which has taken place earlier in this session. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr  MillarOrder!  The honourable member will resume his seat. There is no substance to the point of order. 
There will always be people who unfortunately seek to denigrate those in the community, particularly those in public life, for some personal advantage. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports has not raised his standards since he resigned as Leader of the Labor Opposition in the Victorian Parliament. I register my concern that Opposition members in this Parliament are prepared - 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is there a seconder of the motion? 
-Is there a seconder to the motion? 

-Order! The honourable member is getting away from the clause which is designed to accommodate the matters about which he expresses concern. 
-The honourable member may proceed. 
-Is leave granted? 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the six measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
And the reason I can't release an interdepartmental committee report is because it contains commercial information given to it by operators through the Territory. The way  Mr Morris  blandly uses and misuses commercial information given in these confidential papers, he makes it much more difficult for me to table such a report. 
I state categorically that the Minister's statement is completely false. I have not had access to the commercial information in the confidential papers given to the inter-departmental committee or to the Minister by operators in the Northern Territory. I have not had access to the confidential papers to which he referred and, consequently I was never in a position either to use or misuse the information they contain. I reject utterly his suggestion that I would misuse information in confidential papers. I regard his statement as defamatory and I am seeking legal advice on appropriate action. 
-The question is that the debate be now adjourned and that the adjourned debate be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. Those of that opinion say aye, to the contrary no. - 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Can the Minister for Health inform the House whether there is any prospect of assistance to those people required to give full time attention to chronically ill or infirm parents who might not at present qualify for domiciliary nursing care benefits? 
-If the Minister wishes to make a personal explanation he may do so. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? There being no objection, I shall allow that course to be followed. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I was about to call the honourable member for Higgins, but I notice that both he and the Minister for Foreign Affairs are on their feet. 
-I join briefly in this cognate debate in which two of the Bills might be regarded as having some substantial historical significance. On this occasion I shall more particularly address myself to the Fisheries Amendment Bill 1978. This Bill, of course, will amend the Fisheries Act 1952 and extend Australian fishing jurisdiction over foreign fishermen out to 200 miles beyond the low water mark by the creation of a 200-mile Australian fishing zone. It is the outcome of lengthy, laborious and sometimes tedious negotiations in the international forum. The relief occasioned by its implementation should not be allowed to flow into those essential activities necessary to justify Australia's claim to a water surface area approximately equivalent to the land mass of the Australian continent. 
I mention in passing that it seems slightly ironic that Australia, having been induced to adopt metrication on the score of universality, should now be considering a Bill of international ramifications couched in statute miles rather than in kilometres. One wonders whether the allegedly universal urgency for metrication was in fact more of a myth than a reality. Australia, with the second longest coastline of any country, ranks only fiftieth in terms of world annual catch. This clearly demonstrates the relatively minimal exploitation of the water resources in Australia 's history. This has occurred for a number of reasons of course, not the least of them being that the waters surrounding Australia are not as prolific in fish life as might generally be imagined. Of course the Australian fishing industry has not fully exploited the resources that exist. Australian vessels are small and Australian fishing techniques are unsophisticated. Indeed, with the exception of the introduction of the sonar location of fish shoals and mechanisation of net handling tactics, essentially Australian fishermen are using the same fishing techniques as their forebears used at the time of Australia 's establishment. Many other countries, particularly Taiwan, have a much greater knowledge of Australia's fishing resources. Indeed, their knowledge is so vastly superior to ours as to give them a decided advantage. There are 360 Japanese tuna boats in Australian waters and more than 160 Taiwanese trawlers operating off the north-west coast, which gives some idea of the extent of the involvement of overseas countries. The problem of high operating costs besets the Australian fishing industry, and the difficulty of market access is also a problem that will be difficult to remove. 
Nevertheless, under the new arrangement we will have to expand quickly or surrender exploitation to other countries. The United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea requires a member to give other nations access to the surplus of its allowable catch. I believe that that requirement is rather significant and stands as a very serious reminder to those people who have a somewhat insular attitude towards the development of Australia 's natural resources, both in the sea and on the land mass. It rather suggests that world opinion is fast moving towards an attitude that inevitably will declare that what is in the world belongs to the world and that if we cannot establish our capacity to develop our resources we will not be able to continue to guard them jealously as exclusive to our nation's personal wellbeing. 
Under that requirement, of course, Australia is at liberty to negotiate for some advantageous position by way of trading fishing rights within the 200-mile zone. But trading presupposes that a country has something to sell, and because we have demonstrated historically our lack of capacity to develop those resources, I am not convinced that we can persuade foreign nations to advance a consideration to us for fishing rights within the area described when they know full well that, if we persist with our present inefficient and ineffective measures, in some brief time international opinion will direct Australia to make available to foreign nations those waters within the 200-mile zone. At that stage no value might attach to the surrendering of any entitlement Australia may have. 
It is interesting to note that it is estimated that only 40 per cent of edible fish at present imported each year into Australia- that is frozen packaged fish, canned herrings, sardines and smoked fish- could be supplied by local fishermen. A value of $20m per annum to the Australian market, which has grown at a constant rate of 2.3 per cent over the last 15 years, gives some indication of the value of the ocean resources on present operating levels. In all cases where measures such as this are introduced there is an incidental spin-off which would afford some bounty to our economy. Larger catches, if they are established by the enterprise of the Australian fishing industry, would lead to more modern processing. That in turn will demand increased freezing capacity, storage and equipment, and the transport and shipbuilding industries also will benefit. Whilst we look initially at the sea and what is contained therein, there is a great opportunity for expansion if we are alert and seize the opportunity to develop our Australian fishing industry. In that area, electronic equipment suppliers and manufacturers should also benefit. 
Having established entitlements within the declared zone, the practices must be policed. There must be some surveillance to ensure that the regulations and arrangements are being observed and adhered to. Many propositions can be canvassed as to how the surveillance should be implemented. Whether by expansion of our defence forces we could ensure that sufficient surveillance is maintained or whether we should establish a coastguard or fishing patrol are questions that could be properly investigated. Quite clearly, Australia with its limited resources must inevitably have considerable difficulty in maintaining continuing effective surveillance. I should imagine that, as in the past, there will be illegal intrusions into Australian fishing zones. The Australian Fisheries Council will have a very heavy responsibility in determining the conditions that will apply to the exploitation of these ocean resources. It is alert, of course, to the interests of Australian fishermen and to the conditions that must necessarily apply. 
One could not for a moment deny the validity of the claim that to the greatest extent possible the resources should be preserved for Australian fishermen and Australia as a whole. Whilst it can be understood that in some cases Australian fishermen have an instinctive resentment of possible intrusions of foreign fishermen, it seems inevitable that a compromise must prevail. The declaration of a 200-mile zone is possibly the simplest step for a nation to take to vindicate its actions on the international scene. It will call for good judgment, acument, and a realisation that insular national attitudes in a shrinking world can be counter-productive. I support the Bill. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Before calling the honourable member for Isaacs I draw the attention of the House to the very high level of conversation. I requested earlier that the House be silent. I was reluctant to interrupt the honourable member for Reid and rob him of time but I remind honourable members that this behaviour is a rank discourtesy to honourable members who have the right to be heard in silence. 

 -Mr Speaker has received a letter from the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The increasing cost burden on the sick and the poor due to the Government's further dismantling of Labor's comprehensive Medibank scheme. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

-Is the amendment seconded? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. Will the Minister inform the House on the present position of the application by the sugar industry for an increase in the domestic sugar price? 
-Order! The honourable member for Cunningham may address himself only to the original clause 1 1 to which the fifth amendment relates. Clause 1 3 to which the sixth amendment relates is not presently before the Committee. 
Motion (by  Mr Hodges)  put: 
That the question be now put. 

 -Mr Speaker has received a letter from the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The July 1 crude oil price increase in the context of the Government's failure to establish a secondary taxing mechanism on oil production profits. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 


Order! I remind the honourable member for Adelaide that by his frequent use of the word tariff' he has enabled me to give him considerably more latitude, possibly more than he is entitled to receive. I ask him, in the remaining minutes available to him, to come back to the Bill. 
In summary, I merely wish to point out that the Opposition sees a lesser role for the tariff in the future as an instrument of industry policy. In particular, I should like to see the Industries Assistance Commission being asked to establish bench-mark tariffs which would be the minimum levels necessary to maintain a viable industry in the long-term. I should like to see the Commission using its resources on that aspect rather than to be putting out these grass fires around the place. I should also like to see the IAC establish a timetable for the reductions in tariffs to these bench marks. One of the few compensating factors about what we understand to be the Government's new policy of reducing tariffs by 40 per cent over 8 years is that at least there will be a timetable which will allow people to make the necessary adjustments slowly rather than in a hurry. I recognise that that was one of the difficulties of the 25 per cent across-the-board cuts. However, they were brought about in a very different atmosphere. Whilst not opposing the Customs Tariff Validation Bill the Opposition urges the Government to recognise the vacuum in industry strategy in the hope that a statement will be made in this Parliament very soon on a wider industry policy. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The honourable member for Blaxland will realise that if leave is granted for him to continue his remarks at a future time he will have left only approximately two minutes of the time allotted to him. 

 -Mr Speaker has received a letter from the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The Government's failure to provide positive action to create new jobs in the light of recent sharp falls in total civilian employment, in production and in consumer confidence. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ruddock)  adjourned. 

 -Mr Speaker has received a letter from the honourable the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The failure of the Government to adequately respond to the rural crisis. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 


Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 -Mr Speaker has received a letter from the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The need for this House to uphold the principle of human rights and freedom for all people and accordingly to condemn any nation which denies human rights to its people or to any individual. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

-Is the amendment seconded? 
-The honourable member will resume his seat. There is no substance to the point of order. 
We do not want  Mr Wran  putting all these rail trucks over the railway lines at Tempe, Rockdale and all the other stations. We do not want the coal dust.  Mr Wran  has hoodwinked the people of the area. He is putting more dust into the area, as a result of his action, than would have occurred before. I will be watching the development at Botany Bay very closely. I have the interests of the Bay at heart. I have lived there for 35 years. I do not want to see it destroyed and I am not going to let the Premier of New South Wales, with his harebrained schemes, put coal dust on the people in my electorate of Barton. I know that the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  will not allow that to happen to his constituents either. I do not think that  Mr Wran  will be returned as Premier. I sincerely hope, for the sake of the people of New South Wales, that he is not. I know that if it does happen that he is returned the coal loader will be developed straight away and the people in the area will suffer. I think that the people of the area are awake to this. They are a wake-up to  Mr Wran  and to the honourable member for Hughes and that this will not happen. 
-The question presently before the House is: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
-The honourable member's time has expired. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is concluded. 
-I take the Minister's point, but I cannot satisfy myself that the remarks of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition are not pertinent to the motion. 

 Mr Fraser would use a decision to give up ministerial salary allowances to iustify a horror Budget. 
I think I was reasonably accurate in what I said on 22 June last. That was the position at the time because members of the Press and the media generally wanted to know the Opposition's attitude to the fact that the Prime Minister, apparently without consulting anybody, had indicated to the Press that the Ministers would not be taking the increase. That was one of the determinations and one on which we made our position clear. 
But let us come back to what it is all about. Let us look at what has happened to decisions made by the Remuneration Tribunal in the past. There have been previous disallowances. They were made on the spurious grounds that such disallowances would set an example. In fact a case for such a disallowance was made in the Senate by a distinguished senator who, at the same time, was never asked to disclose his other sources of income- and they were deemed to be substantial. Nevertheless, he argued for the disallowance on the basis that he was setting an example to the Australian people. He wrote to the Remuneration Tribunal at the time and said that every Australian entering public life should set such an example. But nobody ever bothered to cross-examine him on his other sources of income- and, as I said, they were very substantial. In fact it was suggested that they were earned while he was a member of parliament and drawing a salary. The point is that the Government should not be following the bad precedent of trying to set an example in this case. If the Remuneration Tribunal or any tribunal dealing with wage determinations takes evidence and then gives a ruling, the Government should accept that ruling. The Government gave evidence that it did not seek an increase but it lost the case. So why does it object so much to the Tribunal's determination? Why do we see this token measure being applied to indicate that the Government expects the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to use the same sort of approach in dealing with wage increase hearings? The Government is completely out of kilter. For that reason we object to the tokenism of the Government's approach. We have no objection to the fact that Ministers wish to forgo the increase. Again, it would be far more open, if Ministers were to reveal whatever other sources of income they might have. 
There is another factor involved. Determination No. 7, the disallowance of which relates to officers and office holders, applies to a number of people including members of the Opposition. We have no objection to the determination relating to our increases being disallowed; let us put that on the record. We never sought increases so we can hardly object if the determination relating to them is disallowed. But we want to make it clear that a number of people who are in a lower category of remuneration will really suffer if a determination providing for relatively small amounts is disallowed. They do worthwhile additional work in this Parliament for which they ought to get additional remuneration. To disallow that determination because Ministers decide that they want to forgo their increase, I think, is an unnecessary hardship on those people. Again, it belittles the Remuneration Tribunal because the Government is taking segments of the Tribunal's determination and saying that the Tribunal was obviously wrong in its findings. Let me make it clear: Anybody in Australia can make representations to this Tribunal. The Press, the editors and the newspaper proprietors can all go in and give evidence as to what they think members of parliament ought to receive by way of remuneration. It is a public hearing. We do not want to have re-trials of it in this chamber. It ought to be made clear that once the Remuneration Tribunal makes its decision that decision is basically binding. Let us have none of this grandstanding- people trying to attain notoriety on the basis that the Tribunal did not know what it was about and that even when it makes its finding, the Government will disallow it. We object to that completely. 
The other point that has to be made is quite pertinent to the Opposition. At present our entitlement to Opposition staff, that is, leaders' staff, is 34. When the present Government was in opposition, the Labor Government allowed it an entitlement of 38 staff. Our staff numbers have been reduced by four. We were disappointed to receive correspondence from the Prime Minister saying that he does not want to give us the additional staff that the Remuneration Tribunal has now allowed us. I draw the attention of honourable members to clause 27 on page 19 of the review of the Remuneration Tribunal. The Tribunal states, in relation to additional staff: 
We are in no doubt, however, that an additional member of staff should be made available to shadow ministers, and so determine. We further determine that this staff member be employed under the terms and conditions which apply to electorate assistants. The number of shadow Ministers to whom this entitlement shall apply shall not exceed the number of Ministers of State from time to time. 
There are 27 Ministers of State and there are only 20 shadow Ministers so, in fact, we would be entitled to have 27 shadow Ministers and, in accordance with this determination, an additional staff member. We have never used our full entitlement in that regard. This determination, which I submit cannot be disallowed, now is being interpreted by the Prime Minister as allowing us another 10 staff members. If that is the position, it is contrary to this determination. The correspondence we have received from the Prime Minister is to the effect that he does not regard this as a determination; he regards it merely as a recommendation. I draw the attention of the House to the fact that the tribunal itself said: 
We . . . so determine. 
Under the legislation, that is, the Remuneration Tribunal Act, when a matter is determined it stands unless disallowed. I note that there is no question of disallowing it by way of a motion here. Arrangements existed as to what staff should be available to the leaders of the Opposition. I remind you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that when the present Government was in Opposition, 38 was the entitlement for the leaders of the Opposition. I have a statistical table which I can show my colleague the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  which shows that we have 34 so we do not exceed that figure. We have now received advice that there will be only an additional 10 staff allowed by the Prime Minister pursuant to this determination. Shadow Ministers are placed in the position of forgoing their entitlement. If they take their entitlement, the leaders of the Opposition will be obliged to reduce their staff by 10. That is wrong in principle from every aspect of the matter. Leadership of the Opposition requires a fair amount of skill and a lot of work to try to match the resources of the Government. At the present time we note that the staff of Government Ministers outnumbers the staff of the leaders of the Opposition by six to one. If honourable members look at the personal staff of Ministers and the entitlement of the leaders of the Opposition, they will find that we are outnumbered by six to one. To have that number reduced, by implication, by a further 10 is outrageous and unfair. That is what the Prime Minister's correspondence means. 
I welcome the fact that the determination is allowed to stand but I strongly urge the Minister to go back to the Prime Minister and say: 'Have another look at the correspondence you are writing to the Leader of the Opposition and make it clear to him that if you say that this is not a determination and that you are only going to allow 10 instead of 20 you are, in fact, going to deny the Opposition leadership its full entitlement and in fact reduce the number of 34 by 10 '. He should remind the Prime Minister that we never had the numbers that were allowed to the Opposition when we were in government. I make those points because it is very important, when discussing matters relating to the facilities of this House and the Opposition itself, that points be put in the proper context. An Opposition is entitled to function within the democratic process. It should have as much expertise as possible, within the limitations of finance and as deemed reasonable by the Government. It is completely unreasonable now, when the Tribunal determination has made a finding in respect of submissions made to it, for the Prime Minister to intervene and say two things that are completely wrong- firstly, that the recommendation is not a determination but only a recommendation. It is a determination - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 
-Is the motion seconded? 

 -Mr Speaker has received a message from the Senate transmitting a resolution concerning the proposed appointment of a joint select committee to inquire into and report on the provisions and the operation of the Family Law Act 1975 and requesting that the House of Representatives concur and take action accordingly. 
Motion ( by  Mr Ellicott)  agreed to: 
That the message be taken into consideration at the next sitting. 
-I call on the honourable member for Reid to confine his remarks to the Bill. 
Will the Treasurer inform the House whether the  Vi  per cent increase in the standard taxation rate as announced in the 
Budget will be taken into consideration when allocating money to the States and local authorities under formulas that currently apply? 

Order! The honourable member for Cunningham is not free to anticipate the debate on the Budget, which is on the Notice Paper. He may refer to the Budget in general terms to demonstrate why a demonstration should or should not have taken place, but he may not anticipate the Budget debate in specifics. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is it the wish of the House to adopt that practice? There being no objection, I shall allow that course to be followed. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Motion (by  Mr Roger  Johnston) proposed: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The discussion is now concluded. 

Order! It being 1 1 p.m., the debate is interrupted. The House stands adjourned until 2.15 p.m. Tuesday, 19 September 1978. 
Is the Minister for Trade and Resources aware that the European Economic Community is now dumping large volumes of sugar in Papua New Guinea, literally on Australia's doorstep? What action does the Government propose to take to protect Australia's legitimate interests as the world's most efficient producer and exporter of sugar? 
-It being 10.30 p.m., I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
-There is no substance in the point of order. 
We have to look only at the statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 3 September before the Land Council had any opportunity to look at the draft agreement to see that he said that mining at the Ranger site would begin in about three weeks' time. That statement was made by the Prime Minister prior to the Northern Land Council meeting. The Government knows full well the submissive way in which the Aboriginal people respond to this kind of pressure. The Government cannot exonerate itself from the actions of a public servant,  Mr Bishaw.  The Government has only itself to blame for the dissension and the bitterness which today exists amongst the Aboriginal community in Arnhem Land. 
In the few moments I have left to speak, I wish to reply to those people who think that the Labor Party has not taken a firm stand on this issue of uranium mining and export and has not warned the Government and the mining companies. The Labor Party's policy is firm and it has put its policy firmly to the mining companies and the international finance companies which would be involved in this uranium mining. The Labor Party's policy in this regard is that Labor will repudiate any commitment of a non-Labor government to the mining, processing or export of Australia's uranium. We warn any mining company or any international finance firm that if it gets involved in Ranger or any other uranium mining venture, it does so at its own risk. We warn such companies because the Labor Party rank and file give sound support to the Australian Labor Party 's policy. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Order! It being 10.30 p.m., I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
-The Chair rules that the Standing Order referred to requires that the documents in physical form quoted from in the House are the documents which have to be tabled, upon request. It is my understanding from the Treasurer that he has tabled all the documents from which he quoted in the course of the debate. Therefore, I rule there is no substance to the point of order. 
-On behalf of  Mr Speaker  I present the following reports from the Joint Standing Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House: 
Report relating to the proposed construction of a cooling tower enclosure at the rear of the provisional Parliament House. 
Report relating to the installation of guard boxes at the rear of the provisional Parliament House. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
-The honourable member has put his point of order. The Chair, in entering the chamber, did not hear the remark from the honourable member for Holt. If the honourable member admits that he made the remark, I require him to withdraw it in appropriate terms. 
-The Chair is well aware of that requirement. If the honourable member for Macarthur is citing an illustration of how a matter may be misrepresented that is acceptable. I am sure that the honourable member for Macarthur is fully alert to the Standing Orders that determine the manner in which reflections on other honourable members must be made. 
Parliament to the detriment of the reputation of the honourable member for Adelaide. This company was involved in many transactions in North Adelaide, Walkerville, Medindie and Leabrook. Allegations could also be made under privilege in the New South Wales Parliament about the real estate transactions which have been carried out by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  through a series of trust arrangements. I refuse to make any such allegations. I have been on the receiving end of that kind of nastiness. I know how easy it is for honourable members opposite to distort the truth. I am warning them that if they persist in their particular kind of attack, some of their colleagues are equally open to the sort of villainous and vicious attack, which I had hoped would never come from this side of the House, that has been levelled by honourable gentlemen opposite. The transactions of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition include, for example, a shopping centre at Mount Gravatt in Queensland, a housing development on the New South Wales coast and a proposed shopping complex in Sydney. Many of them took place when he was a Minister of the Crown. Neither the Leader of the Opposition nor his predecessor,  Mr Whitlam,  has ever sought to obtain in the way the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has declarations of pecuniary interests from his colleagues. For example, in the Melbourne  Age - 
I address a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the increasing dissatisfaction at the seeming tardiness of the Primary Industry Bank to bring its facilities to the client level will the Minister inform the House of the present state of establishment of the Bank and, more particularly, when its operations will begin? 
-I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 

 -Mr Speaker has received letters from both the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  and the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  proposing that definite matters of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion today. As required by Standing Order 107,  Mr Speaker  has selected one matter, that is that proposed by the honourable member for Adelaide, namely: 
The Fraser Government's failure to justify its vast overseas borrowing program. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

-The honourable member for Hindmarsh may proceed. 
-Is leave granted to the Leader of the House? 
Opposition members- No. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Is the motion seconded? 

 -Mr Speaker has received a letter from the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The devastating threat to the future of Australia from Labor calls for nationalisation of the major elements of private industry. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

-There is no substance to the point of order. The honourable member for Newcastle will resume his seat. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! I draw the attention of the honourable  member  for Hotham to the fact that the Committee is considering the expenditure of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. I request the honourable member to direct his remarks to that subject. 


Order! It being 11.0 p.m., the debate is interrupted. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Transport. He will be aware of the cheap air fares operating across the Atlantic Can he say whether the open slather approach on the Atlantic route will lead to a further lowering of the price of airline tickets for flights across the Atlantic from London to the United States? 

 -Mr Speaker has received a letter from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The failure of the Government to meet its promise to reduce interest rates by two per cent over 12 months. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering each of these matters? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-The following nominations of members to the legislation committee to consider the Public Service Amendment Bill have been received. Government members are  Mr Viner,  the member in charge of the Bill,  Mr Donald  Cameron,  Mr Dobie, Mr Falconer, Mr Fisher, Mr Haslem, Mr Hodgman, Mr Katter, Mr MacKenzie, Mr Simon  and  Mr Wilson.  Opposition members are  Mr Humphreys, Mr Keith  Johnson,  Mr Martin, Mr Les  McMahon and  Mr Young. 
-It being 10.30 p.m., I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
-There is no point of order. 

 -Mr Speaker has received letters from the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly),  the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Ewen Cameron),  the honourable member forTangney  (Mr Shack)  and the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  proposing that definite matters of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion today. As required by Standing Order 107,  Mr Speaker  has selected one matter, that is, that proposed by the honourable member for Bradfield, namely: 
The impact of the New South Wales fuel strike on economic recovery. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their placesMr CONNOLLY (Bradfield) (8.1)-This matter of public importance is being debated in Parliament tonight because of the vital needs of the Australian community to have ready access at all times to adequate quantities of fuel. We are aware of the delicate negotiations which have been conducted today by  Mr Justice  Ludeke with the objective of getting the truck drivers employed by Caltex Oil at the' Banksmeadow terminal back to work. Unfortunately, that particular incident is not isolated. For two months there has been a series of industrial disputes in the oil industry in the States of Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria and Western Australia. 
These strikes have involved refinery maintenance workers, refinery operators and transport drivers. Storemen and packers have imposed bans on the loading of premium grade petrol into tankers. Maintenance workers have seriously cut production at the Clyde refinery and stopped it completely for three weeks. This week new industrial troubles arose at the Altona refinery and at the Shell refinery in Victoria. Tomorrow, production will be reduced by 25 per cent. Unless the disputes are settled by next week, production will be reduced by a further 50 per cent. Despite the serious impact of these disputes, the number of personnel involved in this industry and in these strikes is small. For example, the strike at the Caltex Banksmeadow terminal involves only 128 drivers of the Transport Workers Union, 37 members of the Federated Storemen and Packers Union, 16 members of the Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union and 15 members of the Federated Clerks Union. It is important to remember that this was a wildcat strike and there is no evidence that union officials were involved or even advised. However, the impact of unnecessary strikes for relatively minor matters in key and strategic industries can and does have a catastrophic effect on the business community, especially small business. At a time when greater employment opportunities are being sought for the Australian people, such strikes by small numbers of people who do not know where their interests as citizens should lie lead to further high levels of unemployment. 
Strikes destroy confidence. They destroy the ability of consumers and investors and create an unstable economic and social environment. The strike action that we have seen in recent weeks has affected the entire east coast of the Australian continent from Melbourne to Brisbane. The area has been seriously affected by almost continuous disruption of the fuel supply industry. In future months when we look at the unemployment statistics and other economic indicators I hope members of the Opposition and the people of Australia will realise that we cannot possibly bring back to this nation a degree of economic stimulus and stability if small sections of the work force, for whatever reason, take the law into their own hands and decide: 'To hell with Australia and to hell with our fellow citizens. We will do what we want to do'. If this means going to a strike meeting and then going fishing, so be it; they do not care. Perhaps the saddest aspect of all is that in the oil refining industry, the majority of the people who strike are earning incomes of between $15,000 and $20,000 a year. So much for the average wage! One could suggest that they are going on strike because they can afford to. They can afford to take a day off and they do not care how many other people suffer as a result. 
What we are seeing today could be termed a watershed in Australia's industrial relations. We have heard so much about the impact of technology on job opportunities, yet capital intensive industries are very susceptible to strike action by small numbers of key employees. It would appear that Australian industry is being placed in the position where it may be damned if it remains labour intensive and also damned if it becomes capital intensive. This occurs because a small group of people in influential positions in industry are able to use their power to stop the manufacturing sector. In the refining industry, most technical employees in the classifications I mentioned earlier are not earning the basic wage. They are earning a very significant wage in terms of what the average Australian expects to take home in his pay packet over a 12-month period. Regrettably, these men strike because apparently they can afford to. They know that they can hold the economy and their employers to ransom indefinitely. 
Stable industrial relations are, and always have been, a key element in our economic recovery. Confidence is a very fragile plant in this community. The previous Administration did its best to destroy it- to pull it out by the roots. Slowly but surely we are regaining the confidence of the business community, but confidence needs to be fertilised with stability based on the community working together and accepting responsibilities as a nation, and being prepared to take second place on occasions if the nation's interests are in the balance. These strikers are clearly not interested in the nation 's progress. They are interested only in themselves. This nation will stand or fall ultimately on the quality of its citizens at work for our nation, not only on what comes out of the ground, or is manufactured in our factories. 
Stable industrial relations are a vital element to our economic recovery. For three years we have seen the savings ratio gradually fall as people believe that their future is more secure. They are prepared to spend more. If they do not, the extra jobs will not be created because production will not rise. Energy is essential; without power there can be no work. If there is no work there is no pay. Without doubt this is the most fundamental truism ever. Yet so many people wish to ignore it. We know that the increase in people's spending capacity is essential to generate greater industrial demand throughout this nation. The Service Station Association of New South Wales stated yesterday that some 2,000 station hand employees had been stood down because of the recent fuel strike at Banksmeadow. Many of those workers will not be reemployed because of the impact of self-service facilities which are now being brought into the service station industry. Throughout the community manual workers are being replaced by technology. Often this is for reasons beyond the control either of the employer or of the hapless employee. 
The current strikes obviously are directed at obtaining increases in wages outside the guidelines set by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. For example, the recent strike at the Clyde refinery on 18 September last came after Commissioner Neil had issued a statement from the previously held work value conference asking unions to produce more evidence as to why they should receive wage rises based on so-called significant changes in work value. They could not do it; so they went on strike. The dispute at the Broadmeadow terminal, where the tanker drivers have asked for $ 10 a week allowance for car damage, is another example of this. If the Maritime Services Board stopped building the container terminal tomorrow, I doubt that the extra allowance would be expected to cease- quite the contrary. Allowances of that type, and demands by other groups within this industry for free petrol, for example, are merely stratagems to overcome the guidelines established by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. This Government has fully supported those guidelines which state that no pay increases may be given above indexation or any part thereof, and increases in wages for identifiable changes in work value is the only other criterion on which they may be granted. 
The effect of these disputes on the fuel distributors has been catastrophic. In recent days in Sydney only 400 of the 1,200 service stations have remained open. How many will go bankrupt? Why is it that thousands of Sydney motorists should be held to ransom because fewer than 200 people, without the support of their union, simply decided they wanted to go on strike. They believe that they do have a problem.  Mr Justice  Ludeke has made that clear in his statement today. I commend him for the manner in which he has suggested the dispute should be solved and it will be supervised by the Commission. The National Roads and Motorists Association also has agreed to provide skilled personnel to carry out the necessary inspections of the cars on which, allegedly, the paintwork has been damaged because of the effect of sand blasting from the work nearby. 
These problems can be solved by management and workers getting together and seeking solutions. I will not stand in this House and say that all strikes have been caused because of irascible unions. Regrettably, there have also been occasions when employers have been at fault. But in this particular industry in the last few months, what we have seen has been an almost co-ordinated approach by members of various unions to sabotage the future welfare of the entire Australian people. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Order! The honourable member for Gellibrand will address the Chair. 
As we understand it, there are many big nonlisted groups- private companies- including groups trading in textiles and other commodities, which channel most of their big profits through various tax havens. These private companies are at an advantage because they do not have to publish the sources of their profits. There is widespread use of devices to divert profits to tax havens where companies pay low tax rates and then repatriate the dividends to Australia without incurring any extra tax penalty, as things currently stand. For instance, goods may be bought on the world market by a Hong Kong subsidiary which sells those goods to the Australian parent at a large profit which is then repatriated to Australia but on which they have paid only the low Hong Kong company tax rate of 1 7 per cent. That is what happens in respect of private companies, lt is acknowledged even by those who were doing much of the lobbying that there was a lot of tax avoidance by private companies operating in this way. Importantly, there were many large listed companies which earned a lot of income from foreign sources. A list published in the  Australian Financial Review  on 19 July showed that about 25 per cent of a sample of 120 top Australian listed companies have subsidiaries operating in Hong Kong or other tax havens. 
The kind of money that is being channelled through Hong Kong and other tax havens bears some explanation and development in this House. For instance, the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd has ships registered in Hong Kong. These ships registered a profit of $ 1 .2m last financial year but would have paid only 17 per cent tax on that amount compared with the 46 per cent Australian company tax rate. So, clearly BHP was in there lobbying hard for the Government to abandon its proposal. Other companies with significant overseas profits in low tax areas include, and I mention only some of them referred to in the  Australian Financial Review  survey, the Adelaide Steamship Company Ltd involving a profit of $312,000, Australian Consolidated Industries Ltd $154,000, Comalco Ltd $718,000, Dunlop Australia Ltd $219,000, Nylex Corporation Ltd $431,000, Pioneer Concrete Pty Ltd $3. 2m, Thiess Holdings $1.4m, and there were others which I will not mention. In the New Hebrides, Burns Philp and Co. Ltd has channelled through $ 1.1m in the last year and W. R. Carpenter and Co. Ltd has channelled through $415,000. In Bermuda, CIG Ltd has put through $368,000; in Guernsey the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd has put through $ 1 36,000; and in the Bahamas, the James Hardie company put through $638,000 and H. C. Sleigh Ltd $22 1,000. That is not put forward as a comprehensive list but as an example of the way in which large companies in this country can channel income through foreign tax havens and thereby escape paying the large amounts of tax which would apply if they had to pay the Australian company tax rate. By abandoning the proposal to prevent that tax avoidance, the Government is enabling these companies to continue to escape that level of tax. It is particularly important to note that this is being done at the same time as the Government is imposing an income tax surcharge of  VA  per cent on the Australian taxpayer because it is desperate to raise revenue. I am sure that the irony of that will not be lost on the Australian population. 
It is important also to look at other reasons for introducing the proposal which has now been abandoned. By allowing the loophole to continue Australian companies have been encouraged to go off-shore, that is, to South East Asian nations, because of the tax inducements there. As we all know, over the last several years there has been a move by Australian companies into South East Asia because there are various inducements to investing in and operating businesses there as against in Australia. That is partly due to very substantial wage differentials. It is also partly due to concessions which are made by way of" subsidies and so on. It is not unimportant to note that in most of those South East Asian countries the work force is pretty regimented. This also has certain inducements because the companies will not face any industrial strife. It is for these reasons that the companies have gone over there. In addition to those reasons there have been the substantial tax concessions which are available because of the loophole in Australian company tax law. We believe that this has been an important factor and that the tax system itself has been encourating companies to go off-shore and, in a sense, export Australian jobs. At a time when we have massive unemployment- it will be over the half million mark in the next couple of months- surely it is significant that the Government is abandoning a tax measure which may have done something to prevent the erosion of job opportunities in Australia by Australian companies continuing to export jobs to South East Asian countries. 
It is important to note that a recommendation of the Asprey Taxation Review Committee was precisely what the Government said should be done in a statement made previously by the Treasurer. The Asprey Committee recommendation was that we should close off this loophole on the grounds of equity and economic efficiency. The Government also has used those arguments. The Treasurer, in his speech on 8 June announcing the closing off of this loophole, mentioned some of the arguments that were used by the Asprey Committee in formulating its recommendations. He has since used the argument in defence of the proposal that economic efficiency and equity in the tax system demand that these measures be taken. Now those arguments have been jettisoned. If we look at the Treasurer's statement to see why this has been done it is very hard to believe that the Treasurer really believes his own statement which reads in part: 
It is clear from the submissions we have received that many Australian companies see, as a direct consequence of a foreign tax credit system, an erosion of the competitive position of Australian companies overseas. 
He did not say that the Government sees it that way but that the companies see it that way. There is no explicit mention of agreement with the companies, only a statement of concern that it might affect investment in ASEAN countries. There certainly is no convincing argument put forward by the Government. We can conclude only that an important tax measure, which was an important recommendation of the Asprey Committee, to close off an important tax loophole and one which was going to do something to stop the erosion of job opportunities in Australia, has been abandoned by this Government simply because it has been put under enormous pressure from large business interests in this country which comprise the major support for the Government parties. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hodges)  adjourned. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 -Mr Speaker has received letters from both the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  and the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Ewen Cameron)  proposing that definite matters of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion today. As required by Standing Order 107  Mr Speaker  has selected one matter, that is that proposed by the honourable member for Robertson, namely: 
The abrogation by the Fraser Government of its national responsibilities for environmental matters. 
Before calling upon honourable members to rise in their places, I caution the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  against interjecting while the Chair is addressing the House. I therefore call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

-I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-There is an alternative avenue for conveying information to Ministers. The point raised by the honourable member for Prospect is taken. I have no doubt that the matter will be attended to very shortly. 
-The discussion is concluded. 
-Does the Minister claim to have been misrepresented? 
I understand that the honourable member referred also to property held by the company. The Sinclair Pastoral Co.- it and my family interests- owns ten houses and has a mortgage on another home. The basis for acquiring homes instead of shares has been in order significantly to divest myself- in view of allegations and assertions about the extent to which the holding of shares might well be said in some way to be a matter which affects my exercise of public office- of shares in companies. I have significantly, through the Sinclair Pastoral Co. in my own name, divested myself of most of the shares in public companies that I formerly held. As I have said, the company now holds some 10 houses and has a mortgage on another. Of those 10 houses there are only three on which at the moment rent is paid. 
-Does the Minister claim to have been misrepresented? 
I am the principal of A. Walsh Investments and the head of Allan Walsh Pty Ltd and I am completely opposed to what my son Creighton is doing from an insane hatred of Sinclair. It is all erroneous. Allan Walsh. 
I seek to table that telegram. I am not aware of the contents of the declaration but I believe from the discussion I had with  Mr Creighton  Walsh that he now seeks to withdraw those allegations. I believe, therefore, in view of this telegram that it is necessary that I lay it on the table of the House and rebut whatever allegations are made within that declaration. 
-The matter of privilege which has been raised by the honourable member for Holt will be considered and a report will be given to the House. 

 -Mr Speaker has received letters from the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer),  the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Ewen Cameron)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  proposing that definite matters of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion today. As required by Standing Order 107,  Mr Speaker  has selected one matter, that is, that proposed by the honourable member for Casey, namely: 
The serious threat to the Australian community from the strike in the fuel industry. 
I therefore call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development in receipt of official reports on the quality of rehabilitation measures implemented by D.M. Minerals in respect of its sand mining operations on Fraser Island? Further, do such reports indicate at this stage that the Fraser Island Committee of Inquiry's conclusion that rehabilitation could not be achieved is not necessarily correct? 
-The discussion is concluded. 
-If the honourable member is seeking to take a point of order he should base it on the Standing Orders. If he is seeking to make a personal explanation on the grounds of having been misrepresented, I will allow him to proceed. 

 Mr NEIL (St George)-As to what the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  has said, firstly I am not a member of the subcommittee to which he referred. Secondly, all work that I do for constituents, as I expect with all other members of the House, is done on a proper basis. Any suggestion that it relates to campaign matters is a disgraceful statement and entirely false. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering each of these matters? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Is leave granted? 
-The honourable member has the indulgence of the Chair. 
-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-Is the honourable gentleman foreshadowing an amendment at the Committee stage? 
It is confusing, but the point I am trying to make is this: I trunk what the Government wants to say is that if one is in the tourist industry and one has spent money one ought at least to make more than what has been spent; otherwise you can get into the situation of this Bill where you are running at a loss and you are still going to get a subsidy- in other words, get it on your expenditure. The Opposition is saying that there ought to be some question of having a look at the income. I understand that it has been indicated that the Department feels it is a bit too hard to look at that situation. We think it can be done. We suggest that registration cards at hotels or motels could show the home addresses; car renters could show their licences; tours booked abroad could provide for remittances from abroad. It is better to have some rules, we say, that can be reasonably interpreted rather than no rules at all. For that reason we will move those amendments. 
Another one is in respect of the small business that may be prejudiced. We make the comment that if the Government is setting a limit as it does after three years of $25,000, the report of the Board indicates that of 1,725 grant claims processed and paid in 1976 and 1977, 862 grants involved between $1 and $2,500; 354 involved grants between $2,500 and $5,000. So it can be seen that there is a large number of small businesses not getting a lot of money, but getting something very much less than $25,000. It would appear, if we applied it in this sense, that many of them would be excluded. In other words, the majority of the grants were below $5,000. In our view it may be that this figure of $25,000 could prejudice small businesses and that ought to be looked at in the light of what we are saying. We also point out that there is not definition of tourist services. The Bill simply provides that tourist services are what the regulations call tourist services. It would be better if the Government legislated in that regard. 
Clause 17 amends the offence of breaking the requirements of section 39. The new section clearly involves a misreading of the original section in the sense that it would not be an offence to present the Board with information that was false or misleading unless it had been done with knowledge. What the Opposition is trying to suggest here is that a person is guilty if it is false. The question of mens rea or intent does not come into it. I think that is a bit savage. If it just happens to be wrong, you are guilty. I think we can do better than that. Under the new section 39 ( 1 ) (c) a person can be convicted for making a misleading statement or false statement and sent to prison for six months for something which he did nor know was misleading or false, or did not have any reason to believe was misleading or false. The Opposition opposes strict criminal liability such as that and accordingly the Opposition will move an amendment to require an element of intent; that is, that the person is deemed to have some knowledge of what he is doing. The final matter relates to section 13, sub-section 4. It has been brought to my attention by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins)  who is in the House that there has obviously been a history of the Board's asking people for more information about their claims, without telling them what sort of information it wants. 
Whilst we recognise that there is an appeal provision we think that that is a bit stupid! The provisions we have in mind would state that if the Board wants more information it has to specify the information sought. We will leave these matters for consideration in the Committee stage. We will not press our amendments but we are very anxious that the Government considers them. We are well aware of the fact that the Board has the power to consider claims but it may not do so, and that seems to be a difficulty. There is no definite obligation in the Bill to try to get detailed consideration. In summary, the Opposition supports the Bill but feels that it could be much strengthened. It feels that the situation would be improved if the amendments it proposes to move are accepted by the Government. 
-by leave-I present the report of the Australian Parliamen.tary Delegation to Japan in July 1978. A limited number of copies is available from the Table Office. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I  seek leave to make a brief statement in connection with the report. 
Leave granted. 
I  express regret that in the dying hours of this session time limitations prevent me from offering comments appropriate to the occasion, but  I  accept the situation in which we are placed.  I  would, however, feel remiss if  I  did not express the appreciation of the delegation to our Japanese hosts for the manner in which we were received and accommodated and my personal appreciation as leader of the delegation to the delegates who brought their individual talents to a delegation which  I  think, in all due modesty, may lay some claim to establishing the Australian parliamentary image firmly in the minds of our Japanese hosts.  I  shan not extend my remarks. Possibly in the future we will take advantage of our tour to refer to the knowledge we gained during that experience. 
-Order! 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-It stands as proposed. 
-The motion is not on the Notice Paper. This motion seeks to suspend the Standing Orders to permit the admission of the matter for debate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Is the motion seconded? 
-Is there a seconder of the motion? 

 -Mr Speaker has received letters from both the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  and the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Ewen Cameron)  proposing that definite matters of public importance be submitted to the House today. As required by Standing Order 107,  Mr Speaker  has selected one matter, that proposed by the honourable member for Shortland, namely: 
The alarming growth in Government expenditure on ministerial travel. 
I therefore call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 


Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Killen)  adjourned. 
-There is no point of order. I call the Minister. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  I ask the honourable member for Corio to remain silent. 
Motor Vehicle Plan- Ministerial Statement, 22 February 1979. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hayden)  adjourned. 

Order! It being 10.30 p.m. I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. In view of the great concern expressed by newsagents at the recent determination of the Trade Practices Commission, will the Minister inform the House what measures may be adopted to protect the livelihood of newsagents and to ensure that full newsagency services are maintained within the community, particularly in country areas? 
-The question is: 'That the House take note of the paper'. I call the honourable member for Berowra. 
-The debate having concluded, the House stands adjourned until 10.30 a.m. tomorrow. 
House adjourned at 11.3 p.m. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering both measures? There being no objection, I shall allow that course to be followed. 
-It being 10.30 p.m., I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bourchier)  adjourned. 
-Order! It being 10.30 p.m., I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
-Is the motion seconded? 
-Is there a seconder of the motion?  Mr Jacobi-  I second the motion. 

Order! There is no point of order. 

Order! It being 11 p.m., the debate is interrupted. The House stands adjourned until 2.15 p.m. tomorrow. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Before calling the honourable member for Berowra I draw the attention of the House to the fact that it is debating a serious and sensitive question and every honourable member has the right to address the House in silence. I ask honourable members to refrain from interjecting. 

 -Mr Speaker has received a letter from the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The Government's failure to fulfil its obligations to protect the human rights and the right to self-determination of Aborigines in Queensland. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

-Is there a seconder to the motion moved by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)?  There being no seconder the motion lapses. 
-For the information of the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Peter Johnson)  and of other members, I point out that the ringing of the bells does not strictly indicate the period allocated for the calling of the division. The time allocated is measured by the sand clock. At the expiration of the running of the sand the Chair calls: 'Lock the doors'. If the bells should unintentionally ring beyond that period that does not extend the opportunity to honourable members to enter the chamber beyond the allotted time. The honourable member's remarks are noted. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 -Mr Speaker has received a letter from the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The unnecessary purchase of and the attempt to evade Parliamentary scrutiny in the buying of VIP aircraft. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places - 

I refer the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to recent action of the Australian Broadcasting Commission by which that body increased the cost of ABC news services to country radio stations by some hundreds of per cent- in one instance from $2,860 to $10,000. 1 ask the Minister: Is a statutory body free to ignore Government policies on cost restraint particularly in the matter of maintaining important services to country Australia? Is the Minister aware that in some cases the savage increases with less than a fortnight's notice of implementation will have the effect of virtually wiping out profitability of some stations? Can the Minister assure the House that country people will still retain access to the ABC news service with its unquestioned superiority and value? 
-It is now past 12.45 p.m. The time allotted for precedence to General Business has expired. 
-The honourable member for Berowra during his speech made mention of tabling certain documents. Is he seeking leave to have those documents tabled? 
-Is the amendment seconded? 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 -Mr Speaker has received a letter from the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The need to ensure that no new uranium export contracts are approved by the Government until such times as the grave risks associated with the nuclear industry have been resolved. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

-There is no substance in the point of order. 
-I uphold the point of order. The Chair is becoming concerned at the honourable member's tendency to drift outside the terms of the Bill. I ask him to address himself to the Bill. 
Before I was ruled out of order, I hope you will concede the fact that I made the point that as an Australian I support this Bill, because the national railway network is vital for this country in the twenty-first century. Referring to the financial provisions in this Bill and the financial provisions for Tasmania, I am not going back into the past and I will not tell the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  about what happened in Mount Gambier, but I do say that if any fair minded person- I ask you to let me say this- looks at the deal with respect to the transfer of the railway system of South Australia to the Commonwealth Government and the transfer of the railway system in Tasmania to the Commonwealth Government, he will see that they were sold out. 
Debate interrupted. 
-It being 10.30 p.m., I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 

 -Mr Speaker has received a letter from the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The failure of the Government to provide an assurance that it will not permit any exploration, testing or mining on or in the vicinity of the Great Barrier Reef. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

-The remark was not heard by the Chair because of the disorderly behaviour in the chamber. If the honourable member for Parramatta, who is not occupying his proper place in the House, is prepared to withdraw he may do so. 
It is perhaps inevitable when debating a Bill dealing with a matter of such importance that members on both sides of the House be brought to irresistable conclusions. From time to time there has been a quite unusual consensus as to the problem and the manner in which it might be resolved. The National Railway Network (Financial Assistance) Bill 1979 is designed to fulfil the Commonwealth Government's undertaking to the States to engage in the upgrading of the national mainline network. To that end, the Commonwealth has undertaken to provide a sum of $70m over a five-year period to the States which operate their own railways. South Australia and Tasmania are specifically excluded from the provisions of the Bill as a consequence ofthe earlier taking over by the Commonwealth administration of the day and the railways within those States becoming Commonwealth railway systems. 
The funds to be provided, under section 96, will be interest bearing repayable grants with terms and conditions that apply to normal semigovernment borrowings. It would appear, regrettably, at least to this point, that governments continue to avoid serious consideration of the fundamental question whether railway facilities essential to the nature of our country- with its vast distances and sparsity of population- should be free from the crippling yoke of interest payments which seriously limit their ability properly to service the community in the national interest. It may well be argued that the overall economy and well-being of Australia might best be served if the establishment of an essential basic infrastructure were funded on a straight-out nonrepayable grant basis. The intent of this Bill could well provide the basis for a rapid expansion in railway capacity, achieving simultaneously a very significant engagement of those presently unemployed with consequent savings for the Treasury. If" ever the fiduciary issue had an application, the proposal implicit in this Bill would best accommodate it. We could do again what we once did with the Transcontinental Railway. 
A significant aspect of this Bill relates to the provision for lines other than those linking capital cities of participating States to be declared main railway lines in consideration of the national interest. This provision is quite essential to provide for the requirements of the State of Queensland in particular, where the main line north of Brisbane servicing a number of major provincial cities and their hinterlands extends for a distance in excess of the total distance from 
Melbourne to Brisbane. The creation of a fast, efficient and economical service to the far North would support the concept of decentralisation more in Queensland than in any other State of Australia. This decentralisation is consistent with Commonwealth Government policies. In this respect it is noted that, whilst the States have an opportunity to nominate projects for inclusion in the schemes, there is to be no set formula for allocation of funds among the States; but, wisely, the moneys will be granted on a priority basis in the national interest. The Queensland Government has nominated for the inclusion in the scheme of the upgrading of the Acacia Ridge Rail Freight terminal and the Brisbane and Rockhampton terminals. Considerable emphasis has been placed in recent times on multi-mobile transport where by co-ordination the most effective utilisation might be achieved from our available resources. More recently a new factor has emerged in respect of the most effective modes to employ. Other speakers have alluded to it. I refer to the impending crisis in fuel oil availability. This crisis has highlighted the folly of past decisions and indecision as a result of which our railway systems, and for that matter our coastal shipping services, have been allowed to degenerate to a level where their role bears little resemblance to the proud role they played in establishing this country in its formative years. The lack of foresight has created a situation where road transport has become the major transporter of domestic commodities. The penalty attaching to this situation is that our road system is overtaxed by thundering behemoths gulping copious quantities of liquid fuel and placing ordinary road traffic, if not at acute risk, certainly in a state of utter consternation. 
Our national inability to maintain roads capable of accommodating increasingly faster and heavier road transport may be appreciated from the anguished cries of State and local governments for additional finance to meet the requirements. Tragically, the requirements in this respect can never be met. Immediately upon the upgrading of roads vehicles of greater weight and speed appear in order to take advantage of the improved conditions, only again to reduce the roads to a state of disrepair. It has always been a futile struggle to provide from our limited resources the sufficient funds to meet the situation. 
Railways offer the solution to the problems now confronting our nation. It has been established that no other form of transport can move a given weight of freight at a lower cost per kilometre. With the introduction of palletisation and roll-on-off transfer procedures, an efficient railway system would not suffer significantly from comparison with the road transport services which, of course, would remain a very vital complement to the multi-modal service. The upgrading of the national railway network is an objective which few people, if any, would fail to support. It goes without saying that what is desirable is not necessarily practical in monetary terms. Much of our railway track was laid over 50 to 75 years ago and has not been upgraded, other than in comparatively few instances. With the use of modern track laying techniques, substantial progress could be made, although it must be conceded that little prospect exists of upgrading tracks to the extent where present substantial track gradients would be removed. This undertaking would be too massive even to contemplate. To bring our railway lines to a constant gradient would leave great scars across our countryside, which would be a matter of concern, no doubt, to our environmentalists. 
The introduction of central traffic control is essential to greater efficiency, and it is pleasing to note that this method is being introduced on several systems. It has a corollary, of course, in that it disturbs the staffing situation. It requires that people, often in remote areas, uproot themselves and be transferred to other activities in different centres. But it is an irresistible trend of progress; it cannot be resisted on that ground. The resultant faster movement of traffic as a result of central traffic control, with higher frequency and the need for the upgrading of looplines, has become imperative in achieving the full benefit of central traffic control. More looplines are required and they must be of greater length, to accommodate the longer trains presently in use and those which might be anticipated. 
It is inevitable that as the demand for the service increases it will put great strains on the present system, looplines notwithstanding. A saturation point is reached where there is no longer profitability and costs escalate to a point where the system becomes counter-productive. In that respect there was a rather interesting observation in the report of the Bureau of Transport Economics on mainline upgrading. I shall quote from it later. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was drawing to the attention of the House the fact that increasing the volume of traffic on a rail system is not simply a matter of putting an increasing number of trains in one end and hoping they will arrive at the other end on schedule and without complications. Quite apart from the physical features of such an exercise there are extraordinary results on a cost-benefit basis. I wish to quote from a study of the Bureau of Transport Economics on mainline upgrading and, in particular, the evaluation of a range of options for the Sydney-Brisbane rail link. Under the heading of 'Commercial and Resource Capacity', the report states: 
Whenever an additional train is scheduled it produces an increment of revenue and, at the same time, an increment of cost. At low traffic density relative to the line capacity the additional revenue is greater than the additional cost. However, as traffic increases the revenue from each additional train remains substantially constant while the costs increase because of the congestion effects on existing traffic. Thus the net revenue increment for each additional train decreases with increased total traffic and the point is eventually reached where an additional train adds nothing to total net revenue. This is denned as the commercial capacity of the line and defines that point at which the railway, as a commercial operator, would decline further traffic. Subsequent growth in the total freight would be diverted to the next preferred mode. 
The strongest argument for the upgrading of railway lines is the great benefit that would accrue from the savings in oil fuel consumption. Australia- particularly Queensland, happily- is very favourably placed because of the huge coal resources to press on with the electrification of lines. This would lead to greater efficiency, reduction of pollution and, of course, fuel economies. As I have previously said, Australian railways virtually pioneered this country. With the turn of the wheel their time has come again. I mean not to be ungenerous when I say that concomitant with the decline of the railways as the most popular form of transportation, there has been a serious erosion in the morale of railway employees. Most of them have applied themselves with resolve under very difficult and often archaic conditions. It was inevitable that they should suffer the humility of being involved in what virtually became a  Cinderella  service. 
I would suggest that State governments, in considering their priorities within the terms of this Bill, give thought to the provision of a new symbol, perhaps in the form of a high speed train which would catch the interest of the public and regenerate a pride of involvement within railway employees. I cite the Newcastle-Sydney situation as a classical one in which such a high speed train could be introduced. It is rather significant that the traffic by air between Newcastle and Sydney is at an extraordinarily high level. I understand that there is a commuter service leaving on the hour every hour from Newcastle to Sydney and, rather sadly for the operators involved, they must remain at risk as a consequence of the review of facilities at Kingsford-Smith airport which, in the end, could lead to the requirement for that service to operate from another airfield. 
As the honourable member for Paterson points out, there are sevices even in addition to the one I specifically mentioned. In such a situation it must be a very attractive proposition that the people of both Sydney and Newcastle who have occasion to visit the other centre can enjoy the comfort and the convenience of high speed travel between the two points. 
Concurrent with the upgrading of the tracks must be an improvement in the conditions under which railway employees work. In speaking to this Bill the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  delivered what I believe to be a well-prepared and objective assessment of the existing situation. However, I have one criticism to offer in that he apparently felt bound to adhere to the unfortunate practice in this place of spoiling a good argument with a political swipe. I refer particularly to his criticism of what certainly would appear to be the inadequacy of the funding this year under this Bill for a project which, on a national basis, would require some thousands of millions of dollars. It must be evident to all honourable members that whether one is managing a country, a corner store or a family budget there is a limit to financial capacity. Had the honourable member for Shortland suggested areas of present expenditure from which the Government might withdraw and thus provide the funds for an essential project, he would have rounded off his speech in a statesmanlike fashion. 
The Government is to be commended for its good intentions in this Bill, but in so doing it cannot escape the responsibility of making the final determination as to how best the total resources of our nation should be employed. Such a determination clearly would not meet with the approbation of all. Conversely, if any government sets out to please everybody, it will please nobody. This Bill is a step in the right direction. It must command the support of all honourable members. I oppose the amendment from the Opposition and support the Bill. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering each of these measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
I am pleased to have the opportunity to join in this cognate debate on the Norfolk Island Bill, the Remuneration Tribunals Amendment Bill and the Norfolk Island- Government Policy- Paper. Although I have been requested to limit my remarks in the interests of saving time so that passage of this Bill may be facilitated, I feel more than an ordinary interest in the Bill for no more impressive reason than that I had the privilege to represent the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  on the inaugural East- West Airlines Ltd flight to Norfolk Island some little while ago. During my two-day stay there, I had the opportunity to appreciate the extraordinary qualities of the island, to enjoy the hospitality of the residents and, furthermore, to measure the intensity of view held on the island. Whilst I say 'intensity', I was not unimpressed with the diversity of view, all such views having a proper place in the considerations relating to the measures presently before the House. 
I think it is generally accepted that Norfolk Island is quite unique in most respects. The Government has responded to that fact in accepting that these Australian citizens in this Australian Territory should not be treated as all other Australians. It could be said, in simple terms and with the weight of logic, that the Norfolk Islanders are either Australians or they are not Australians. I know that a counter view is expressed that in fact the Norfolk Islanders are Pitcairners. History to a considerable extent supports that contention. But I am not unaware that it was suggested- I believe, from memory, by an administrator of the island at the time- that if the 
Norfolk Islanders' title to Norfolk Island was based on their Pitcairn origin, more logically they should establish their claim on Pitcairn Island. I am sure that nobody would seriously propose that the Norfolk Islanders should adopt such a suggestion. But that does indicate clearly the diversity of opinion as to what strict entitlement actually exists. 
I was not unimpressed on approaching Norfolk Island, not without some trepidation. Some half an hour out there is no assurance that the island will be clear for landing and one is not particularly impressed with an aircraft that is operating at its operational extremity, with alternative landing points of Auckland and Noumea. But happily the sun shone on the island, as the tourist brochures insist that it invariably does, and on our approach it was a stark reminder of the inroads of civilisation to find the grand Norfolk Island pines lopped to establish an approach or departure gradient for the aircraft. One is very aware that if the island develops with a tourist potential, as undoubtedly it could do, and there is a need or demand for the introduction of jet services, the inroads environmentally will be even more substantial. I am led to believe that the glorious St Barnabas Church could suffer some damage by the introduction of jet services. But established clearly on one's first introduction to the island is the fact that the island is so unique in character that any significant intrusion of more sophisticated civilised societies- I mean no offence when using that term- could imperil the delicate nature of the society and the island. 
I think that quite often some of the honourable members who speak to this matter in all conscience tend to fall into the trap of forming judgments and making assessments of places removed from the mainland of Australia against an Australian background rather than against the background of the society immediately concerned. Wherever it is, we tend to measure conditions and entitlements against those which exist in this country. In the first instance, such arguments are quite persuasive. But if the introduction of those alleged improvements result in the decay of the society which brings contentment, joy and stability to a community, we must seriously question whether we are working in the best interests of that community. In the legislation which is before us we have a clear indication of the Government's desire to maintain Norfolk Island in its unique character. Clearly there are matters which must require attention. The tax haven situation is one which looms as a cloud rather than a mantle over Norfolk Island because it remains subject to the possible introduction of legislation to close off the taxation loopholes. I see this not as a threat to Norfolk Island. It is arguable whether the benefits to the Island of this tax haven machinery are as substantial as many people think. I am quite sure that the island from its own resources could offset any loss of revenue which might flow from the registration of companies and the peripheral activities which attach to those operations. 
It is argued that social welfare benefits should be available to the islanders. Some discontent is expressed with what is described as the 'grace and favour' practices of looking after their own. I simply say that it would be a bold soul who would endeavour to sell that philosophy on the record which we, with our sophisticated society in Australia, have established in those fields. Certainly our motives cannot be questioned. It is quite laudible that we relieve the needy. But we find all too often that the more we set out to relieve the needy the more needy and the more numerous they become. Those people left to carry the burden attaching to that particular philosophy become so massively deterred that they find it is not worth the effort and they give the game away. Paradoxically, there is then nothing with which to relieve the needy. So, on my observation, Norfolk Island appears to have a reasonably balanced community, with its roots in history and a strong desire to remain there. 
Why is there consternation among presumably quite a number of people on the island about the legislation which the Government proposes to enact? It must be accepted that in the breasts of all men lurks the desire at least to be independent and, as far as possible, to be master of ones own destiny. Concomitant with that is all the responsibilities which attach to total independence. I suggest that in this Bill we have set the stage for a progression towards self-government for the people of Norfolk Island. With all kindness, I think that perhaps the Norfolk Islanders may have erred in taking a most pessimistic view of what is proposed. Certainly, safeguards are contained in the legislation. There are some impediments to the unimpeded pursuit of the desire and objectives of those Norfolk Islanders who have views different form those of the Government. But that does not mean that this legislation cannot work. This Bill does not represent the final step towards Norfolk Island's selfgovenment. If, on the enactment of this Bill, flaws are discovered in it, certainly the Australian Government will be amenable to holding further dialogue on the matter to determine whether the aspirations of the Norfolk Islanders cannot more properly be met. 
I wonder whether this is not another Norfolk Island characteristic. I refer honourable members to the report of the Royal Commission into Matters Relating to Norfolk Island, headed by  Mr Justice  Nimmo. In 1866, Norfolk Island was subject to some threat, as it was seen at the time, in respect of the establishment of a Melanesian mission station. In writing to Governor Denison, the Reverend G. H. Nobbs, the island 's pastor at the time, said: 
I trust yourself and our other influential friends will countenance my opposing so very undersirable an addition to our social circle as a hundred or two of heathens strong with the odour of unmitigated depravity. 
I wonder whether some of our Norfolk Islanders regard the Federal Government as equally maladourous. I can assure those honourable members who hold such a view that, on my observation, that is certainly not the spirit of the Federal Government's approach to the matter. I am quite confident in saying that the Norfolk Islanders will resolve their problems under the benign mantle- I hope I do not sound too condescending- of the Australian Government's concern for their well being. The legislation ensures that the Assembly will be able to exercise its democratic function in making abundantly clear the wishes of Norfolk Islanders. Certainly that ambition may be denied by provisions within the Bill, but there is no reason to believe that it is the intention of any person involved to thwart the ambitions of the Norfolk Islanders. 
If the Australian Government took the line of least resistance and cut that bond which unquestionably binds Norfolk Island with the mainland of Australia, whilst the Norfolk Islanders might experience the heady delight of independence, on the morning after would come the sober realisation that in many respects they had severed themselves from the sort of aid which the Australian Government can make available to them under a more mutually benign arrangement. I am quite sure that this legislation, when it is enacted, will meet very substantially the expectations of the Norfolk Islanders. If the transition seems to be too demanding I would suggest that there is no greater example of transition than that demonstrated by the Norfolk Islanders. 
I again refer to the Nimmo report and I put very kindly one dramatic aspect that warrants presentation. It relates to that time when in 1800 Young, the second but last of the original Pitcairners, died and Adams was left as leader of a community of himself, 10 women and 20 children, the products of the preceding years of cohabitation on both Tahiti and Pitcairn Island. Adams, the sole adult male survivor of some 1 1 years of mutiny, piracy, attempted murder, murder, arson, suicide, theft, assault, battery, abduction, and probably carnal knowledge and rape, then became a devout student of the  Bible  and the  Book of Common Prayer,  each of which had been salvaged from the  Bounty.  He proceeded to instruct his little community in strict Christian ways and deep abiding loyalty to the British Crown. His pastoral care, which continued for some 28 years, became a singularly influential factor in the subsequent history ofthe Pitcairners. I would strongly suggest that if the Norfolk Islanders, the Pitcairners as they were, demonstrate the capacity to adjust to change as was evidenced in that situation, they will handle this transition with the slightest of discomfort and the maximum of success. I support the Bill. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! Before the honourable member proceeds I should acquaint him of the fact that there are no amendments before the Committee yet. The Minister has not moved them. The honourable member is anticipating the moving of those amendments and is not strictly in order in addressing himself to amendments that are not before the Committee. 

 Mr ELLICOTT (Wentworth-Minister for 
Home Affairs) (9.44)- by leave- I move: 
Clause 4, page 2, line 14, omit 'section 8', substitute 'this Act*. 
Clause 4, page 2, after the definition of 'Deputy President', insert die following definition " 'enactment' means- 
a law (however described or entitled) passed by the Legislative Assembly and assented to under this Act; 
an Ordinance made by the Governor-General under section 27 or in pursuance of section 68; or 
an Ordinance continued in force by this Act; ". 
Clause 4, page 2, lines 23 and 24, omit the definition of Ordinance'. 
Clause 4, page 2, lines 32 and 33, omit the definition of Territory', substitute the following definition: 
Territory' means Norfolk Island, that is to say, the Territory of Norfolk Island as described in Schedule 1 . '. 
Clause 5, page 3, lines 2 and 3, omit 'Territory of the Commonwealth', substitute 'Territory under the authority of the Commonwealth'. 
Clause 7, page 3, line 38, omit ', whether before or after the giving of that advice ', substitute 'in accordance with subsection (3)'. 
Clause 7, pages 3 and 4, omit sub-clause (3), substitute the following sub-clause: 
For the purposes of sub-section (2), the Minister may give the Administrator instructions in respect of advice tendered to the Administrator for the purposes of paragraph (I) (b), and may give the Administrator instructions in respect of the referral to the Minister of any such advice.'. 
Clause 11, page 5, after sub-clause (3), insert the following sub-clause: (3a) If the Administrator is not present at a meeting of the Executive Council, the members of the Executive Council present shall elect one of their number to preside.'. 
Clause 11, page 5, after sub-clause (S), insert the following sub-clause: (5a) The Administrator may convene a meeting of the  Executive Council at any time, and shall convene a meeting whenever requested to do so by 3 or more members of the Executive Council. '. 
Clause 17, page 6, line 37, omit 'Ordinance', substitute enactment'. 
Clause 17, page 6, Une 38, omit 'Ordinance', substitute enactment'. 
Clause 17, page 7, line 2, omit 'Ordinance', substitute enactment'. 
Clause 17, page 7, line 3, omit 'Ordinance', substitute enactment'. 
Clause 18, page 7, line 8, omit 'Ordinance', substitute enactment'. 
Clause 19, page 7, line 14, omit 'Ordinances', substitute laws'. 
Clause 19, page 7, line 17, omit'Ordinances' (twice occurring), substitute 'laws'. 
Clause 19, page 7, line 24, omit 'Ordinances', substitute flaws'. 
Clause 20, page 7, line 28, omit 'Ordinances ' ( twice occurring), substitute 'laws'. 
Clause 21, page 7, Une 37, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 21, page 7, line 39, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 21, page 7, line 41, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 21, page 8, line 1, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 21, page 8, line 2, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 21, page 8, Une 3, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 21, page 8, line 5, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 21, page 8, line fi, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 2 1 , page 8, line 9, omit 'shall ', substitute 'may'. 
Clause 21, page 8, Une 11, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 21, page 8, Une 16, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 22, page 8, Une 21, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 22, page 8, Une 24, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 22, page 8, Une 23, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 22, page 8, Une 26, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 22, page 8, Une 27, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 22, page 8, Une 28, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 22, page 8, Une 31, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 22, page 8, Une 35, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 22, page 8, Une 38, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 22, page 8, Une 39, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 
Clause 22, page 8, line 40, omit 'Ordinance', substitute law'. 

 -Mr Speaker has received a letter from the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely:' 
The threat to the national interest by State parochialism and division between the Deputy Prime Minister and the Prime Minister over mineral export policy. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 


Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-It is now almost 12.45 p.m. The time allotted for precedence to General Business has expired. 
-The honourable member for Hughes is not required to raise a point of order. He is entitled to rise to his feet and immediately draw the attention of the Chair to the state of the House without engaging in debate. 


Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I ask the Acting Prime Minister whether he can inform the House as to the present prospects of the United States ratifying the International Sugar Agreement? 
-The right honourable gentleman has the retrospective indulgence of the Chair to make that explanation. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hodges)  adjourned. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Order! The honourable member for Wills will resume his seat. The Chair is familiar with the Standing Orders. If the honourable member for Wills, on a belated entry into the proper area designated for the business of this House- as distinct from the side benches- is serious in his protest, then leave is not granted. 

 -Mr Speaker has received a letter from the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The Government's failure to inform the Parliament of the implications of the Australia/Korea Nuclear Co-operation Agreement. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering each of these measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. I am reluctant to interrupt the honourable member for Capricornia and cost him time which he has available to address the Committee. All honourable members are aware that each member has the right to address this Committee or the House in silence. Interjections are contrary to the Standing Orders. I have requested honourable gentlemen to observe silence. If they persist in their action they will leave the Chair with no option but to deal with them. 

Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I remind the House that it has been agreed that a general debate be allowed covering this Bill and the Income Tax ( Mining Withholding Tax) Bill. 
-Has the Minister for Trade and Resources seen reports which imply that the Government's export drive will be prejudiced by delays in payment of export incentive claims? If so, what steps is he taking to rectify the position? 
-Is the honourable member for Reid seeking leave to make a statement? 


 Speaker has received advice from the Government Whip that he has nominated  Mr Thomson  to be a member of the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs in place of  Mr Katter. 


 Speaker has received letters from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  proposing that definite matters of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion today. As required by Standing Order 107,  Mr Speaker  has selected one matter; that is, that proposed by the Leader of the Opposition, namely: 
The Government's failure to honour its promise of lower taxation. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 


Order! It being 1 1 p.m., the debate is interrupted. The House stands adjourned until 2.15 p.m. tomorrow. 

 -Mr Speaker has received letters from both the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  and the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  proposing that definite matters of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion today. As required by Standing Order 107  Mr Speaker  has selected one matter, that is that proposed by the honourable member for Lilley, namely: 
The need for defence and communication bases to operate effectively in Australia for this country 's protection. 
I therefore call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

-The discussion is concluded. 
-I have received a letter from the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The use of a selective and disguised S2,000m petrol tax on motorists to hide the real impact of the Prime Minister's high tax policies. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

-Is leave granted? 
-The action is slightly irregular but the Minister's intentions are beyond question and I think the practice might be permitted. 
I would like to congratulate the Minister on the $200,000 which is being spent on domestic tourist promotion to encourage Australians to tour Australia in off-peak seasons. I do not think I need to enlarge upon that. I have mentioned this many times before. It is essential that we encourage Australians to see their own country. There is nothing more to be said in regard to tax deductibility for depreciation of income producing buildings. We fought for this as far back as 1971-72. The Minister will be getting a swollen head, but these are very welcome initiatives. 
I will deal later with the question of Port Arthur. I am interested in getting more details of the $2m being spent on the Uluru and Kakadu national parks. I have not had a chance to see the details of this expenditure. The research on the economic significance of tourism is very welcome. I particularly commend the work being done by the Bureau of Industry Economics. The work that the Bureau has done probably has gone a long way towards setting the ground for the Minister to be able to get this proposal through Cabinet. This work has been valuable because it has given the industry and the economists the information that they lacked. Most of the time we have been talking in the dark about the significance to Australia of tourism. We were very often guessing. Now we know that the tourist industry is worth to the Australian economy almost as much as the car industry and is not far behind the mining industry. I understand that the final report is likely to be even more glowing than the interim report. We look forward to that report. 
I know that the Minister cannot answer at this stage, but I would like to ask how much of the $3.25m for export development grants was taken up last year? I heard that very little, if any, was taken up in the year within which it was introduced. I do not know why the industry has not taken advantage of these grants. Perhaps it did not have the opportunity to do so because the grants were implemented not all that long ago. I would be very interested to hear from the Minister at a later stage as to what is happening in that area so that we know what is likely to be spent and what is proposed by the industry. I feel that the Minister is stretching the long-bow in claiming that there are so many benefits for private companies. I think there is a specific tourist benefit which is available to all private companies. I doubt whether all the research on tourism which is being carried out would be restricted to the Great Barrier Reef. It would be in the general area. 
Having said all the nice things I now wish to make a few criticisms in the whole area of tourism. I still think we have to look more closely at a national strategy. There is a tendency, and there has been, for a lot of the things to be done in an ad hoc or piecemeal fashion. This is all right for a start, but let us get on with a national strategy and make sure that we do not lose the impetus achieved from the re-interest of the Government in tourism. I have been a strong advocate of developing what I call a tourist track around Australia. This would involve bringing people in through the northern parts of AustraliaTownsville, Darwin and Perth- and developing a track down the coast of Australia and through the Queensland areas- Cairns, Mackay, Rockhampton, the Gold Coast, Sydney, through to Canberra, Melbourne and Tasmania, back up to Adelaide, and then either out through Alice Springs and Darwin or through Perth. In doing this we will encourage people to come to Australia because they will not be forced, as they are now, to back-track when they want to see parts of Australia. At the moment most of the tourists coming here visit the south-east corner of Australia- Sydney, Melbourne and Canberra. In the main that is where they are going. We are not getting the development in areas where we have our greatest tourist attractions- the Barrier Reef and the Northern Territory. There must be development and we have to start by building an international airport in Townsville. 
Over the last few months I have been fortunate enough to talk to some top people employed in Trans-Australia Airlines. One thing that is well known in Australia is that we are unable to offer domestic air fares as cheap as we would like. Air fares in Australia are high. There are reasons for that and I accept some of those reasons. We cannot introduce the large, wide-bodied aircraft because if we were to do that at the moment we would be forced to restrict the number of nights between our major capital cities and our major regional cities. It is far better for the Australian traveller to have more frequent flights. It has been suggested to me by top people employed in the international and domestic aviation" areas, that TAA would like to buy three airbuseswidebodied aircraft- and that it would use those in flying from the regional areas of Fiji, Nandi, Honiara, Noumea, Singapore, Port Moresby and Bali, that they would be able to fly them into Australia through Townsville, across Australia and out the other way. I am sorry if I am being a little vague in my explanation. By so doing they would be able to keep their aircraft going 24 hours a day, which they cannot do at the moment because of airport curfews. If they are allowed to buy three air-buses and are allowed to fly on the regional routes they would be able to reduce significantly the cost of air fares within Australia. This has already been discussed in the domestic review of flying and has been accepted as something that can be done. 
I was quite staggered to find out from top TAA executives that they can do this and want to do it. The only thing that is stopping them is that Ansett Airlines of Australia does not have the money and will not be able to buy the air-buses. As a result TAA is being prevented from doing so. We all know the reason for the reduction in air fares. It is not because more people are travelling or because the airlines are more efficient; it is because wide-bodied aircraft have reduced the costs of flying. The international 747s, 380s and so on, will seat 240 or 260 people as against 90 to 1 80 in the Boeing 707s and the DC9s. So once we reduce domestic aircraft costs in Australia we will really be on the way to developing a very significant domestic tourist industry as well as encouraging international tourists. 
I take this opportunity to criticise the Minister for one thing. He and a number of Government members have been raising constantly the question of penalty rates. As I have said before, I came to this matter with an open mind and the more I heard from the industry, the more I realised that they were talking absolute nonsense. I want to quote- I have quoted him before-  Mr Roger  Kirby, the managing director of the Travelodge chain of hotels and motels. Travelodge owns 47 Australian motels with 4,000 rooms and is the biggest accommodation chain in Australia.  Mr Kirby  had this to say: 
Penalty rates are a very small proportion of our total costs. They are 3 per cent of our revenue and 1 5 per cent of our total wages bill. We can live with them quite happily. Our best estimate is that if we were to remove penalty rates from our payroll it would reduce our average room cost by only SOc. The average award rate for one of our maids is $137 a week and after eight hours they get an extra 30c an hour. 
Anybody who has travelled overseas will know that the cost of accommodation and food in cities like London, New York, Stockholm and Tokyo is way above that in Australia. In many placesLondon, for example- the wage costs are much below Australian costs. I would also like to see more done in the area of man-made attractions. It is good to see that the Government has reintroduced funds for man-made attractions. This was a great initiative of Frank Stewart. He did a magnificent job with regard to Old Sydney Town, Lachlan Village and Sovereign Hill. The Government's grant in regard to Port Arthur is bringing back something that Frank Stewart introduced. However, there is a lot more we can do in this area. I do not believe that it need cost a lot of money. We could do it on a dollar for dollar basis or on a $ 1 for $2 basis with the States and local communities. We could plan two, three or five-year programs and develop our existing attractions such as those I have just mentioned. Perhaps we could do something in those StatesWestern Australia, South Australia and Queensland- where there are no man-made attractions of this nature. For a very small amount of money, say, $ 1 m or $2m a year, we could get a lot done. 
I might add that even though the Government has introduced depreciation deductibility for accommodation, we need also to look at some deductibility in the future for private enterprise man-made attractions. Here I mean things like Sea World and Marineland in Surfers Paradise. I will talk to the Minister about this matter later but I point out that there is quite a deterrent to those people who build some of these attractions which have to be pulled down because they may be of interest for only five, 10 or 15 years and then rebuilt. These people will not do so because they cannot get tax deductibility. Another thing that I should like to mention, and I will be raising it again in the Budget debate, is that it is a pity that with all the work being done on the Great Barrier Reef, the Government has not made a decision to declare fully the Great Barrier Reef marine park. That is essential if we are to ensure a long-term tourist industry for Australia. Overall, I congratulate the Minister and the Government on a job well done, but let us not believe that the job is completely finished. There is a lot more to be done yet. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bungey)  adjourned. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the three measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering these measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I refer the Minister for Transport to comments made yesterday in Parliament by the Opposition spokesman on tourism, the honourable member for Robertson, and to Press reports this morning claiming that the Government has rejected a plan by TransAustralia Airlines to buy three wide-bodied Tristar jets. In the light of the claim that the sources of the information were top TAA executives, can the Minister say whether, to his knowledge, the alleged statement represents the attitude of TAA management and whether the claims are in fact the case? 

 Mr NIXON It is a fact that Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia have been looking at the feasibility of the introduction of wide-bodied jets. It is not true that TAA has a proposal at the moment for the purchase of wide-bodied jets, nor is it true that TAA has been to the Government with such a proposal. I read with some interest a report that a member of this House had said that he had been talking to three top executives of TAA and that they had said that they had put a proposal to the Government for the purchase of wide-bodied jets and that the Government was sitting on it or refusing to deal with it. I can only assume that the three top executives were clerks at the front desk of TAA, who have as much of an idea of what is going on in the board room as Cohen has about the governing of this country, because there is no accuracy at all in the report. 
-There is no point of order. 
The poverty of transport links and the extreme difficulty of moving from north to south or from east to west in the Lalor electorate is another factor which inhibits the social interaction that ought to exist between the seven separate urban components which comprise Lalor. One could give another very easy illustration. Eric Page's recent book  Where to eat in Melbourne  points out that dinning out is one of the major social activities in the metropolitan area. He lists 700 restaurants in the metropolitan area, of which precisely three are found in the west. 
The most serious example of cultural and social deprivation is the wide gap between the levels of educational absorption and educational expectation in the west and the east. I believe that it is a tragedy that the Whitlam Government, despite the generosity of its spending on education, absolutely failed to narrow the gap. In some ways it could be said that it even helped to perpetuate the already existing gap in educational expectation between the east and the west. Of course, the reasons for this are historical. Our educational system is not well suited to narrowing the gap. Australia has a split level educational system with first and second divisions which perpetuate existing social, ethnic, class and regional divisions in society instead of resolving them, which of course was the classic small '1 ' liberal hope for universal education. 
The first division is aimed at producing the officers and non-commissioned officers of Australia's social army, whilst the second division covers the other ranks and rejects from the system. The first division may be defined as being, firstly, predominantly urban middle-class; secondly, achievement-oriented and with a high expectation of success; thirdly, aimed at producing qualifications for a career with the presumption of affluence, readily marketable skills, and a high degree of professional satisfaction and personal autonomy to determine work patterns; and fourthly, marked by a high level of absorption in post-secondary education. The second division in Australia's educational system may be defined as being, firstly, predominantly working class, ethnic, rural or regional; secondly, failure-oriented with a low expectation of success; thirdly, producing people who will compete for a declining number of relatively low paid semi-skilled or unskilled jobs, often insecure, with a low degree of personal satisfaction and little personal autonomy; and fourthly, marked by a low degree of absorption in post-secondary education. 
Educational absorption at post-secondary level in the first division can be as much as six times greater than in the second division, as can be seen from participation rates in education for first division electorates such as Bradfield and Wentworth in New South Wales, Kooyong and Chisholm in Victoria and Sturt and Boothby in South Australia, and second division electorates such as Sydney and Reid in New South Wales, Burke and Lalor in Victoria and Port Adelaide and Bonython in South Australia. Specifically, for example, the 1976 census figures showed the contrasting rates of educational absorption at the tertiary level in the electorate of Burke, which is marginally worse than Lalor, and Kooyong, which has the highest absorption rate in Victoria. The ratio was in the order of 1 to 5.94. In other words, there was a discrepancy of virtually 6 to 1 . 
In my electorate the discrepancy was about 5.5 tol. 
The greatest sector of unemployment is among young people. The Australian Bureau of Statistics figures show that 16.5 per cent of unemployed people are in the 15 to 19 year age group compared with the overall figures for all ages in Australia of 5.8 per cent. The difference is a factor of 2.85. However, it must be recognised that Australia has an unusually high proportion of young people competing for jobs, as our educational absorption rate is low. Paradoxically we have both a higher level of youth employment and a higher level of youth unemployment, just as we have smaller numbers in full time education. This reflects firstly the lack of interest generated in much of Australian education and secondly the relatively slow growth of an information economy compared with, say, the United States or Canada. Educational absorption is lowest in industrial suburbs, country towns and among girls and the children of migrant families, where education is geared to expectation of failure. It is taken for granted that most students will drop out of school and enter the labour market. In the affluent middle-class suburbs there is a general expectation of educational success and a high proportion of young people complete tertiary studies. 
Australia has an unusually high proportion of young people competing for jobs. Young people aged from 15 to 24 years may be divided into roughly three groups. Group 1 comprises those who want to complete tertiary education and actually do so. Group 2 comprises those who have the capacity to complete and undertake tertiary education but who for a variety of reasons prefer early entry into employment, early marriage and establishing a home to waiting for several years to complete a degree and then seeking work. Others in this group, of course, have been socially conditioned to accept lower expectations than those in group 1 . Group 3 comprises those who have no intention of entering tertiary education and would be unlikely to succeed. 
In practice, it is largely those in group 3 who are unemployed because the jobs they might obtain are secured by people in group 2. If more people in group 2 were absorbed in full-time education far more jobs would be available for those in group 3. In the United States, basically, the people in group 1 and group 2 are competing with each other within a framework of continuing education. There are plenty of jobs available for those in group 3. This is one of the reasons why the United States has been more successful than any other country in absorbing additional numbers in the work force. On the other hand, in Australia it is basically the group 1 people who go on towards tertiary education. Those in group 2 then compete with those in group 3, not with those in group 1. The result is that we have unusually high unemployment figures in group 3. 
However, I must say that the electorate of Lalor compares very favourably with the kinds of urban conditions which we find in many other countries. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  an article entitled 'Bright Lights, Big City', which appeared in the  Indonesian Observer. 
Leave granted. 

 The article read as follows- 

BRIGHT LIGHTS BIG CITY 
Within the lifetime of children born today, almost twothirds of the world's population will be living in cities. Graham Hancock of the 'New Internationalist' reports on "the largest migratory movement in human history"- the trek of the poor from countryside to metropolis. 
In 19S0 Mexico City, with a population of just under three million, was a mere stripling amongst urban giants. By the end of the century it will be the largest metropolis in the world. More than 30 million people will live there. Brazil's Sao Paulo is under going a similar process of dramatic growth. Its population was two and a half million in 1930; ten million in I97S; and is not likely to be less than 26 million in the year 2000. The list is a long one: Bombay, Calcutta, Karachi, Peking, Shanghai, Seoul, Cairo, Rio de Janeiro are all in the 1 5-30 million mega-city line up for end of the century. Only New York and Tokyo, in the developed world, will be in the same league. 
Demographers can only explain about half of urban expansion in the Third World in terms of 'natural population growth '. The new factor, the really explosive change that has taken place in the last few decades, has been the increasing willingness of vast numbers of rural people to uproot from their villages and farms and head for the cities. Migrants from the surrounding countryside arrive on the outskirts of Rio de Janeiro, for example, at the rate of about 5,000 every week. The authors of 'Only One Earth' estimate total migration from the rural areas of the Third World to be somewhere in the region of 75,000 people every day. 
The key word of course is people. If, as one expert has argued, we are witnesses to 'the largest migratory movement in human history' then there must be a good deal more to it than just the remorseless march of statistics down a page. There are the conditions and circumstances that make village life, a life based on subsistence or small-scale agriculture, less and less bearable for more and more people. There are the consistent biases in development strategies worldwide that lead to over-investment and concentration of resources in cities to the detriment of the countryside. 
As Dick Whittington appreciated long ago, cities are where the action is. Though the romantic attraction of the bright lights has to be offset against the intense discomfort, insecurity and difficulty of the shanty towns that await most immigrants, it cannot be entirely discounted as a motive for migration. 
One young Ghanaian described his reactions on first arriving in Accra from the countryside: 'I became a sort of idiot as we moved along, for I stood to gaze at whatever Englishmade articles I had never seen before'. Village life, clearly, had nothing comparable to offer him in the way of status, stimulus or adventure. 
However, more pragmatic reasons predominate in most people's minds. One survey in Peru found that 30 per cent of migrants living in shanties had come to the city to find work. One of the ironies of Third World urbanisation, of course, is that it is occurring without any possibility of a concurrent expansion of productive urban-bred industries and jobs. Indeed the modern industrial sector in developing countries rarely employs more than 5 per cent of the available labour force. Nevertheless, cities do provide work a-plenty for resourceful migrants- from prostitution to boot cleaning; from begging to refuse collecting. Most of all, they provide the opportunity to benefit from one's resourcefulness- which the rural areas, stagnating in underdevelopment and under investment, do not. 
There is a consistent and long lasting trend in many parts of the Third World for the rural poor to become poorer while the urban poor can at least keep pace with the cost of living. In India, for example, the proportion of rural people below a very basic poverty minimum rose from 39 per cent in 1 960 to 54 per cent in 1970. In Bangladesh urban income per person is roughly 3 times as high as rural income. Brazil maintains a similar ratio despite extremly rapid growth in real national products per person. 
And the buck does not stop at employment opportunities or higher incomes. City life holds out other equally important attractions. In India, the child born in a community of more than 5,000 persons has seven and a half times as good a chance of receiving a University or College education as the child born in a rural village. This disparity is actually much less than in most poor countries. Similarly the townsman has nine times as good a prospect of medical attention as the villager in India, 1 1 times in Ghana, 33 times in Ethiopia. It seems to be almost a 'rule' of underdevelopment that the poorer, the larger in area, and the less densely population the country is, the bigger is the disparity between town and countryside. Agriculture, after all, only gets priority. It is still the cities that get resources. (UNFFPA) (24) 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is there a seconder to the motion? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Trade and Resources. I refer to the announcement by Comalco Ltd that it intends to establish a very large aluminium smelter at Gladstone. I ask the Minister What are the implications of this announcement for the Australian economy? 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The Chair does not uphold the point of order. 

Order! It being 10.30 p.m., I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
-I think it might suit the convenience of the House to suspend the sitting. Does the honourable member wish to proceed? 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Trade and Resources. It follows a question addressed by the honourable member for North Sydney to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. In view of Australia's heavy dependence on export trade can the Minister indicate in finer detail what effect significant wage increases at this time would have on Australia's export performance and the development of our national resources? 
-It being 10.30 p.m., I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 

 -Mr Speaker has received a letter from the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The failure of the Australian Government to introduce policies to effectively assist young home makers offset rising prices of housing and land. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 


Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-This afternoon during a debate on a matter of public importance the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  sought leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a lengthy document. Leave was granted conditional on the incorporation presenting no problem to  Hansard.  1 have since been advised by the Principal Parliamentary Reporter that the Government Printer considers the document not to be of a quality acceptable for printing. Leave to incorporate the document is therefore now withdrawn. 
-Is leave granted? 

 -Mr Speaker has received letters from both the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  proposing that definite matters of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion today. As required by Standing Order 107,  Mr Speaker  has selected the matter which, in his opinion, is the most urgent and important, that is, that proposed by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, namely: 
The Government's failure to disclose its policy in respect of the multilateral trade negotiations and the codes of conduct thereunder. 
I therefore call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 


Order! There are too many members on my right offside. 
The club has always adopted an attitude of helping the locals. When the team wins on Saturday it will be a victory for the battlers. Need I say that at this time when the Government is crushing the battlers it is nice to see a team from my electorate do its bit for the working people of Australia. Canterbury-Bankstown has been a club which has always provided bursaries for its local players. In fact, George Peponis is one of the great representatives of that club and a man who has been nurtured by the club and has gone on to do well as a doctor. In fact, he is a man who is an excellent representative of the area, very much a man of Canterbury-Bankstown and very much a man of Grayndler. I think it would be remiss of me if I did not stand here in this Parliament this evening and offer that team my best wishes and, I hope, the best wishes of the Parliament so that it will go on to bring glory to the club and, might I say, glory to the working people, the battlers of Sydney and New South Wales. 
-The discussion is concluded. 

Order! The honourable member's time nas expired. 
-I uphold the second point of order and I ask the honourable member for Port Adelaide to be relevant to the matter. 
Let me read to the House section 88F of the Industrial Arbitration Act of New South Wales. The principal section of the Act regards as unfair, harsh, unconscionable and against the public interest if the remuneration received by the person performing the work is less than that which would be received if such person were employed under the award. The inquiry is conducted by a person who is not under any challenge from any side, whether it be the housing industry or the trade unions. Are the people working in the New 
South Wales building industry working under a scheme which is now described as body hire? Are they working under this scheme and receiving far less than they would receive if they were working under an award? Another point that has to be made is that there is absolutely no evidence at all- there is not one skerrick of evidence- that any trade union in the building industry in New South Wales has come out against the contract system in that State. The rhetoric and the ranting of the honourable member for St George did not put that point forward at all, and nor will the next  speaker  for the Government. The unions have gone before the inquiry. The evidence is there. It can be made available to the Government. The unions are not against the contract system but they are against body hire. They are against a system where people in New South Wales are being forced to work under conditions in which they are earning up to $ 100 a week less than the award rates. That is what is happening in New South Wales. If honourable members would like to see what is happening in New South Wales I shall show them by reading from the  Australian Financial Review  of January this year, which states: 
At six o 'clock in the morning the group of men standing on the vacant allotment near the corner are looking a bit anxious, standing straight in their working gear, ready for work. 
As the organisers look them over they fall silent. The next few minutes determines whether they have a job for the day, or whether they will have to trek home for another day in front of the television with only the dole money to keep the household running. 
The organiser tells them how much work there is for the day, and then goes down the line of labourers, picking the ones he wants. 
Catching his eye and looking fit are crucial. A nod will mean round $50 in cash at the end of an eight-hour day doing labouring work on a building site. 
In most cases tax will not be paid. The article continues: 
It means the difference between barely existing on the dole, with unpaid bills and an edgy wife, and plenty of cash in the wallet and all the other advantages of semi-regular income. 
This is body hire- a practice which has been mushrooming in Australia 's depressed building industry. 
This is body hire, it is not subcontracting as the honourable member for St George would try to have the House believe. That is the argument that is going on before the inquiry. I invite the Government to use its intelligence, or the remainder of it, to go before that inquiry and argue against the case that has been put by people who are concerned. Let me read the letter that has gone out from the Labor Council of New South 
Wales, which is co-ordinating the trade union submissions. That letter states: 
The current inquiry into the Nature and Terms of Employment in the New South Wales Housing Industry being conducted by  Mr G.  A. Burns, former NSW Conciliation Commissioner, is creating widespread public interest. 
Employer organisations such as the Housing Industry Association, the Master Builders' Association and other like organisations, are conducting a publicity and petition campaign on the question amongst sub-contractors, using the builders and their supervisory personnel as the main organising force. 
They are accusing the Trade Union Movement and the Labor Government, of seeking to restrict the freedom of the individual, besides claiming that the unions are out to abolish the contract system in the cottage industry. 
It is for that reason that the Labor Council of New South Wales is writing to each State Labor member of Parliament to put the facts right and to seek your continued support for the efforts of the trade union movement to protect contract workers within the housing construction industry of this State. 
The position of the uade unions in the building industry is that they are not opposed to the contract system within the cottage industry, but they are seeking to have amendments made to the New South Wales Industrial Arbitration Act, which will give legal protection to the contract workers from those unscrupulous builders and developers who are grossly exploiting them. 
Such amendments to the Act would help to bring to an end a position where contract workers, whilst being treated as independent contractors and paid a price per unit, metre, for their work, receive up to $100 per week less than that of a building tradesman working on an award basis. 
Now honourable members would think that if there were any decency left on the Government benches, it would have delved into this inquiry. If the Government felt strongly about this matter it should have gone before the inquiry and put its views forward. Let me read to honourable members a letter from the Building Workers Industrial Union because it seems, in the mind of the honourable member for St George, to be the main culprit. Obviously from the import of his speech the honourable member for St George is in the pockets of some builder in New South Wales. The letter states: 
Dear  Sir, 
In the interest of those who want to see a healthy and viable cottage construction industry that serves the interest of the consumer and at the same time gives a just financial return to those who carry out the construction, we consider that- all those associated with the cottage industry are entitled to know the two main opposing viewpoints being put forward before the current inquiry into the cottage industry. Accordingly, we request that a BWIU representative be permitted to address your meeting to be held at the Blacktown Civic Centre on 20 August- 
That is a meeting of the New South Wales Division of the Housing Industry Association. The letter goes on to state that in return the union is prepared to allow a speaker from the Housing Industry Association to come before the Building 
Workers' Industrial Union to put its views. The letter continues: 
We seek permission to address your meeting because we believe that the HIA is grossly distorting the submissions that the BWIU has presented to the inquiry. We direct your attention to an example of what we regard as two irresponsible and contradictory statements recently made by spokesmen of the HIA. 
For example, your  Mr David  Sellars in the Daily Mirror of 10 July 1979, said that housing costs, as a result of the BWIU proposals, would be increased by 25 percent. This statement was subsequently contradicted and disowned by  Mr KirkbyJones,  who on Channel 7 on Wednesday, 15 August 1979, stated that the union proposals would increase costs by 10 percent. 
Both these statements are false and their conflicting nature must raise in peoples minds, ... a grave doubt about the credibility of statements made by the HIA in respect of this inquiry. 
In respect of the freedom of the individual, we would point out that the BWIU is not seeking to deny freedom of a subcontractor to negotiate a contract price, provided such contract price does not violate Section 88F of the Industrial Arbitration Act, which regards as unfair, harsh, unconscionable and against the public interest if it provides a total remuneration less than a person performing the work would have received as an employee performing such work. 
The whole presentation of the Government's case through this junior back bencher has been a farce. If the Government were serious about the matter it would do two things: The Minister would make a statement so that we could debate the matter and the Government would go before the inquiry, if it had sufficient evidence, to refute the allegations that have been made by the unions. No one in this country is going to allow a system of employing people, or body hire as it is now termed, in which people are paid far less than the award wages which have been won by the unions in the particular industry. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 


 Speaker has received letters from both the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  and the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  proposing that definite matters of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion today. As required by Standing Order 107,  Mr Speaker  has selected the matter which, in his opinion, is the most urgent and important, that is, that proposed by the honourable member for Corio, namely: 
The frequency and the extremely high cost of defence accidents. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

-The honourable member is not free to allude to the earlier debate. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The Prime Minister will be referred to as such. 
Debate interrupted. 

Order! It being 10.30 p.m., I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
In view of expressed concern at alleged cuts in Community Youth Support Scheme programs involving materials and project officers, I ask the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs to inform the House whether there is any substance to the allegations and, if so, to what extent they affect the continuing prospects for the CYSS and thereby the employment opportunities for young people in Wide Bay. 
-The honourable member for Robertson is possibly, but not necessarily improperly, taking advantages of a situation to broaden the subject of the debate. That is of concern to the Chair, but I do note that in the report of the Minister reference is made to the ecosystem, and it might be argued that black martin are part of the ecosystem. I strongly urge the honourable member for Robertson not to digress from the subject. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  I uphold the point of order taken by the Minister. I call the honourable member for Robertson. 
The Great Barrier Reef, Australia's major tourist attraction, may soon be stained by bloody violence and even destroyed. The lengthy chain of coral that flanks most of the east coast is a visual delight. But to an increasing number of Taiwanese fishermen and big business interests it represents a rich and more tangible reward in dollars. 
While most foreign vessels are content to operate legally outside the 1 9-kilometre limit, large numbers of Taiwanese in rickety, expendible junks, commit ecological rape every year. Their violation of the sedentary organisms, the clams, the triton and helmet shells, turtles and porpoises could result in the destruction of the reef. 
The blame for this plunder has been placed on small, independently-operated Taiwanese combines but the big companies that process the catches have been ignored. Since 1 976 there have been 22 prosecutions for clam poaching and some vessels have been confiscated. Yet the plunder continues unabated, with the Federal Government offering only token resistance. 
The damage being done to the reef, and its vulnerability, have been highlighted by  Dr R.  Endean, a lecturer in biology at Queensland University.  Dr Endean  was one of the first to point out the dangers to the reef of the Crown of Thorns starfish . . . 

 Dr Endean has been keeping some check on reef conditions by monitoring the catches by commercial fishermen. There have been marked drops in catch sizes in area devastated by the Crown of Thorns, or overfished or denuded of clams . . . 
The extent of the attack on the clams by Taiwanese poachers can be seen clearly from a light aircraft The white, opened shells dot the reefs, acting like beasons to searchers. A single Taiwanese junk with a crew of between 1 5 and 20 will leave no clams alive in a selected area. One Taiwanese junk caught in July this year at Swain Reefs, south of Mackay, had 1 1 tonnes of clam meat aboard when it was towed in. Since the average clam contains about 250 grams of edible muscle, the vessel must have taken about 30,000 clams. 
Such predation is the start of a whole chain of damage which may me irreversible', says Endean. 'It is known that clams filter the sea water, but as yet nobody really knows just how important they are to the system. It is believed that some species play a major role. ' 
Unfortunately, time does not permit me to continue. All of this article ought to be read by every member of Parliament. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is concluded. 
-Is leave granted? 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
-There is no point of order. The honourable member for La Trobe will resume his seat. I call the honourable member for Grayndler. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order!  I ask honourable members on my right to remain silent. In common with other members of the House, the honourable member for Grayndler has a right to address the House in silence, and I ask honourable members to maintain decorum. 
I believe there is a real and pressing casefor decentralisation of authority and that local governments will best perform many governmental functions in such critical areas as welfare, culture and the environment. The challenge which we face now is to make arrangements to balance public functions at each of our three levels of government with the financial resources to discharge them effectively. 
Some months later Gough Whitlam was elected the Prime Minister of Australia and swiftly started to implement those programs. There now appears to be a general agreement that local government is the most appropriate unit for the planning, administration and delivery of a wide range of community welfare services and facilities because it can take account of the different needs, values and preferences of individual communities and because it is the political unit closest to the communities being served. As long ago as 1950- the honourable member for La Trobe and his colleagues will be happy to hear this- the then Prime Minister  Sir Robert  Menzies agreed that a conference should be held to examine the financial relationships between the various tiers of government and acknowledged that local government was the third arm of government. Members on the other side of the House should carefully consider what I am about to say because one can remember all the promises they made when they were in Oppositionpromises easily made then and forgotten on the day of the election. The Liberal-National Country Party Opposition in its October 1975 social welfare policy speech, under the heading of 'Local Government and Community Participation', provided: 
A Liberal and National Country Party government views local government as the focus for service delivery, since welfare services provided at the local level will be very responsive to users' needs and wishes. Local governments have the advantage of: small size and proximity to the people; political accountability and responsibility; unequalled knowledge of local conditions and problems; the capacity to mesh together voluntary . . . services . . .; considerable potential for enhancing citizen participation . . .; the ability to co-operate with one another . . . 
A Liberal and National Country Party government will assist local governments to utilise these inherent advantages and potentialities effectively to meet the contemporary need for citizen participation and welfare provision by: 
ear-marking a fixed percentage of personal income tax . . . 
seeking to have States Grants Commissions consider the diverse welfare needs of local government in allocating them equalisation grants. 
It went on to speak about support for the Australian Assistance Plan. As soon as the LiberalNational Country parties came to government we saw what they thought of the Australian Assistance Plan: It went out of business. We are now seeing what this Government thinks about local government because it is very quickly trying to take away special purpose grants and the other means of assistance to local government in achieving some sort of equalisation of services in this country. I have indicated already that  Sir Robert  Menzies acknowledged the financial difficulties of local government as early as1950, but the conference that he proposed did not take place. An inquiry into valuation and rating in New South Wales never occurred. 
Between 1949 and 1970 the public indebtedness of local government authorities in Australia increased by 845 per cent and their interest bill increased by 1,931 per cent. During that period the Australian Council of Local Government Associations in a number of ways endeavoured to get central and State governments to agree to provide assistance to local government. The Labor Government's and the Australian Labor Party's awareness of the responsibilities and the needs of local government and the role that local government had to play in the overall structure of the federation was reflected in the action that we took when we were in government. In1973 the Labor Government broadened the role of the Commonwealth Grants Commission to inquire into and report upon the applications by local government authorities for financial assistance from the Federal Government. We proposed to provide local government with representation on the Australian Loan Council and to provide local government with access to borrowed funds at the Commonwealth bond rate of interest instead of the higher semi-government rate. 
This proposal was rejected by the State Premiers at a special Premiers Conference in October 1973. This proposal would have served as an important incentive to assist local government authorities to provide social welfare and other services which are most needed in some of the less fortunate municipalities and shires of this country. The proposal that the Labor Government put forward- namely, that the Constitution be amended to enable the Commonwealth to make general financial grants to local government- was defeated at a referendum. It was defeated because of the baying and the yapping of some of the less foresighted people in local government- people probably of the ilk of the honourable member for La Trobe- and these inexperienced councils who could not see beyond their noses and their own petty little bureaucracies. The vision the Australian Labor Party had for local government was to make it a proper partner in Australian federalism. The view of the present Government is that it should be reduced once again to the poor step-daughter who has to come begging for assistance not only to the States but also to the Commonwealth Government. 
We proposed that local government organisations should be eligible for a number of grants from various government departments. Unfortunately the present Government has reduced the avenues from which local government can obtain direct grants. These areas included child care, assistance to Aborigines and care for the disabled and aged persons. Those are the changes that were brought in by the Whitlam Labor Government to help local government to meet the needs of its constituents. Since the change of government in1975 that commitment to making local government an effective partner in the system has been reversed so that local government has become a passive recipient of Federal and State government largesse. For example, the Grants Commission, in its first report in1 974 and in its second report in1 975 on financial assistance to local government, set out individually the grants to local government authorities in Australia so that local government and governments of Australia could see where the money was going. 
However, in1976 the Grants Commission Act was amended to provide for the Commission's recommendations in respect of financial assistance for local government purposes to be made on a State by State basis. That is what this Government thinks about local government: it does not even let local government have a look in. The Commission's special report in 1976 took the form of percentage shares to each State as the proportions they should receive of the total funds to be made available by the Commonwealth for local government purposes. The Commission in its report said: 
Except insofar as the Commission could have regard to submissions previously made, it was not in a position to make contact with or seek evidence directly from local government authorities . . . Because the Commission was not in a position to make direct contact with individual local government authorities, it was not able to assess the needs of individual local government authorities. It followed that any changes which might have occurred since 1974 in the position of individual local government authorities were not taken into account. 
So, since this Government amended the Grants Commission Act in 1976 the Commission has not even been allowed to inquire from local government authorities what they thought they might like to receive from the Government. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
The import of that additional condition is that some States may, if they so decide, not even pay any of this tax sharing money to local government at all. In fact, if they do not they just have to pay it back to Consolidated Revenue. I put it to the House that that is not a way for this Federal Parliament to agree to enter into a relationship with local government. It is not in the spirit of the Government's own policy speech in 1 975. It is not, indeed, in the spirit of the statement made by  Sir Robert  Menzies in 1950. In particular, it is not in the spirit or the word of the great reforms for local government that the Australian Labor Party brought forward between 1972 and 1975. In fact, there is further evidence of this Government's attitude to local government in the Budget Papers. On page 107 of Budget Paper No. 7 the Treasurer said:  . . the degree of influence exerted by the Commonwealth over the particular amounts paid to local authorities varies considerably among the different programs as does the availability of information relating to those amounts. In some cases the amounts passed on to local government authorities are wholly at the discretion of the State Governments. 
I put it to this House that there should be some sharing in this. There should be a sharing of responsibility between State, Federal and local governments. This is just a program to ensure that local governments stay in vassalage. The Commonwealth Government has failed local government. In fact, the Commonwealth Government Grants Commission has also failed local government. Local governments saw that Commission as being a great way of participating in the federal system. In fact, the Grants Commission, in its special report, states: 
Recommends Option A which is to distribute in proportion to the respective unweighted populations of the States. Its reasons are that all other options entail analyses and decisions of a highly complex character - 
Is that not a shame? The report goes on: 
. and in many instances direct contact with individual local government authorities and possibly the furnishing of returns to the Commission by such authorities would be necessary. 
I would think that, if the Government is considering reasonably looking at the proposals to extend money to local government, it should expect some sort of return from local government, some input from local government into that decision-making. The commission in the long run says that because of Government policy it has been forced to avoid the necessity to make direct contact with and obtain information from local government authorities within the States. What a perilous situation we are reaching. This recommendation centralises a process of personal income tax sharing distribution. It seems to have been formulated in fear of the present policy of the Government, which does not encourage direct contact between the Commission and individual local government authorities created under the laws of the States. It is very much at variance, in fact, with  Mr Justice  Else-Mitchell's statement in 1972 when the Grants Commission was originally set up. He said: 
The present centralised policies which have been to reduce local government to a state of vassalage and councils to the role of mendicants need drastic re-appraisment. 
This formula does not take into account cost structures which vary according to size, geography and a range of functions and responsibilities undertaken by local government bodies. The Commonwealth Grants Commission proposals about income tax sharing preclude local information, prevent local government representation and income tax sharing on a per capita basis and are an equalisation principle in name only. The Commonwealth Government is indeed exercising a double standard. It is not being sincere when, on the one hand, it says that it wants local government to participate and, on the other hand, it says: 'Well, of course, you can participate only if you go cap in hand to the State governments'. In fact, some of the Commonwealth payments made direct to local government authorities as eligible non-profit organisations have been increased, but in the final analysis there has been a great reduction in the funds available. 
The present Government's policy showed through when it would not make funds available to local government to implement the Galbally Committee recommendations on migrant services. I put it to this House that most of the areas in Australia that are taking due account of the impact of migration schemes have been areas where some sort of assistance has been provided by local councils. They are in the forefront of ensuring that Australia is converting to a multicultural society and this Government fails to support them. In fact, it specifically precludes any assistance to local government under that section of the Commonwealth Government funding arrangements. 
All Commonwealth special service grants to local government have been decreased. Child care is an area where this is most obvious. Between1975 and 1976, $ 13.7m was allocated to local government under both grants to State governments which were to be passed on to local government and direct grants to local government - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-It being 10.30 p.m., I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
-It being past 10.30 p.m. I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Riverina) (10.3I)-On 9 October 1973 I raised the matter of a small country newspaper, the  Lachlander,  operating in Condobolin. This newspaper was under a takeover threat by a larger company called Western Newspaper Ltd. I am happy to be able to report to the House tonight that the  Lachlander  is still publishing and is now in its eighty-fifth year. It has been operated as a family business by the Ryder- Wood family for the past 26 years, although more recently without the assistance of  Mr Ryder-  Wood senior who passed away a few years ago. When Condobolin was in my electorate that newspaper never refused to publish anything I submitted. As I am still a reader of the  Lachlander  I am pleased to observe that the present Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  gets the same co-operation from the  Lachlander  as I did when I was the Federal member for that area. I am sure both of us admire the service given by and the dedication of the Ryder-Wood family. We admire the assistance that the  Lachlander  has given to the Condobolin district. 
I raise the matter again tonight because my attention has been drawn to another small country newspaper, the  New South Western Standard,  which is published in the WentworthDaretonEuston area in my electorate. I ask the people in that area to give this newspaper the support it needs and to watch it  grow.  This newspaper has drawn to my attention, and I am sure to the attention of many other people, matters that are vitally important to the welfare and livelihood of the citizens in that area. I draw the attention of this House to just a few of the many matters raised by the  New South Western Standard.  I refer to an article under the heading Citrus- or Synthetics '. As I have not time to read all the article I ask leave of the House to incorporate it in  Hansard.  There is nothing contentious in it. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 -Mr Speaker has received a message from the Senate acquainting the House that  Senator Keeffe  has been discharged from the Joint Committee of Public Accounts and that  Senator Georges  has been appointed in his place. 

 -Mr Speaker has received a letter from the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The failure of the Australian Government to protect black marlin in the Australian fishing zone. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 


Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The Minister may proceed. 

Order! Honourable members on my right will remain silent. I draw the attention of the honourable member for Reid to the fact that he has been granted leave of the House to respond to the statement made by the Minister. I have extended some licence to him but I ask him to remain more pointedly relevant to the Minister's statement. 
But because the Minister did not move that the House will take note of the paper, the House has given me the right to express my views on this important matter. 
This Government does not now even bring in a Bill each year for the allocation of housing funds to the States so that the question of housing can be discussed in this Parliament. At the time when umbrella legislation was going through the Parliament, I asked the Minister whether the Government would allow a debate on housing at the time when the Minister tabled his annual report each year. The Minister said that he would give consideration to it, but yesterday he tabled his report with not the slightest indication that he would grant me leave to make any comment on matters associated with the annual report. So I am now taking my right as a member and as the Federal Opposition spokesman for housing and construction to express how inadequate this Government is in the housing area and in relation to the construction industry as a whole. 
I come back to the situation of welfare housing. This Government has cut drastically the value of funds which have been transferred from the Commonwealth to the States under the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. The funds have been cut to such an extent that in 1974-75, 3.9 per cent of all government expenditure through the Federal Budget was allocated to States under the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. This year, total expenditure is about 1.1 per cent. In real terms, this is less than one-third of the total money being made available. In 1974-75, when Labor was in government, we made available to the States public housing funds for over 12,000 commencements. Houses were commenced in your State of Queensland,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  as in all other states. 
This year we will be lucky if there are 4,000 commencements because the housing situation is so bad. Housing prices are rising at a rapid rate. I will cite the median levels of cost for housing and land across Australia. As at 1 June of last year, the cost of house and land in Sydney was $58,900; in Melbourne, $47,500; in Brisbane, $33,000; in Adelaide, $32,400; in Perth, $41,300; and in Canberra, $37,200. I gave a figure of $58,900 for Sydney. In fact the figure has now risen to $62,200. Last year that figure was only $47,800. It has gone up by that much in one year alone. Those figures indicate the enormous rise in the prices of land and housing. 
I will cite the average cost of dwellings in some of the suburbs in Sydney to give some idea of how the prices of land and housing have risen under this Government. In Ashfield a cottage cost $40,000 in June 1978. In June of this year it cost $56,000. In other words, there was an increase of about 25 per cent in one year. In Gordon a cottage cost $70,000 last year. It cost $95,000 this year, an increase of 35 per cent. In Leichhardt, an inner city suburb, a cottage cost $31,000 last year and $38,000 this year, an increase of 23 per cent. There has been an enormous increase in the prices of land and housing. I now refer to housing loans. I said that in Sydney the median price for a house in June this year was nearly $59,000. If a person gets a loan of even $30,000 at 10.5 per cent repayed over 25 years he has to repay about $283 a month. That is one of the problems with regard to housing. It is an impossible position for most single income earners. It has been pointed out to me by my colleague, the Whip, on this side of the House that the grievance debate will follow; so I will conclude my remarks. 
Government members- Hear, hear! 
-The honourable member for Mitchell should not seek to be educated through the device of a point of order but I accept his sincere inquiry. The honourable member for Reid in truth is making a statement by leave of the House. Whilst it may be argued that in spirit the leave to respond is related to the Minister's statement, that is not specifically stated. The Chair has no authority to require the honourable member for Reid to be any more relevant than he sees fit. As he is speaking by leave of the House, it is in the hands of the House through the Standing Orders to take the steps necessary to bring the honourable member's remarks to a conclusion. 
Council. I make the same criticism to the Minister with regard to the people who will be members of that Council. It seems to me that its members will be representatives of the rulers or the employers and not of those people who work in the industry. The last point I make is this: The sad situation is that if there is any upturn in the housing and construction industries we will not have the skilled personnel to be absorbed in those industries. The economic policies of this Government have driven many tradesmen out of those construction and housing industries. We are not training the apprentices who will be required to work, particularly in the housing industry, if there is any upturn in those industries. Nor are we retraining unemployed people to work efficiently in the housing and construction industries, particularly the housing field. Therefore, I ask the Government and particularly the two new councils to consider at least that aspect of the problem. 

 -Mr Speaker has received a letter from the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The failure of NUMAS to recognise Australia's saturated labour market. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the four measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 

 Mr GARLAND (Curtin-Minister for Special Trade Representations)- by leave- In the Committee stage I shall be moving appropriate amendments to the Social Services Amendment Bill to correct a drafting error to ensure that, when the proposed new amendments for payment of pensions to persons in benevolent homes come into effect, pensioners then in benevolent homes will not suffer a reduction in the amount of pension being retained by them at that time. A similar amendment affecting Service pensioners will be moved by the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann)  during the Committee stage of the debate on the Repatriation Act Amendment Bill (No. 2). 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
-Order! There is no point of order. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Progress reported. 
-The honourable member will address the House through the Chair and ignore interjections. 
The third element in this muddled, contradictory, inexplicable energy policy is that the Labor Party's policy would encourage exploration and conservation. First of all, the Labor Party would deny world parity prices to explorers. It would say to them: 'If you come to Australia you have no hope of getting a market price'. Secondly, it would raise far more money through taxes and excise than is being raised at the present time. Thirdly, the Labor Party still says to the oil exploration companies that it would encourage exploration and conservation. The honourable member for Gellibrand, his leader, the honourable member for Blaxland and the Adelaide conference of the Labor Party are asking the Australian people to believe that the Labor Party, and it alone, has found the magic answer to the problem of the world's scarcity in energy resources. It is saying to the Australian people that in this world of dwindling energy reserves it alone can give cheap energy, subsidised energy, at no cost to the consumer price index and at no cost to the speculative investment which is needed in this area to find alternative resources. Of course, the honourable gentleman is asking us to believe the impossible- that the Labor Party alone has found the answer to this problem and that it can produce cheap energy despite the fact that crude oil is a rapidly depleting energy resource. 
The facts and the reality of inflation at the present time are that all the industralised countries are experiencing a resurgence of inflationary pressures. This is predominantly, but not entirely, due to increases in the price of oil. We have to ask ourselves very simply whether what the Australian Government is doing at the present time is the most appropriate response in all those circumstances. The honourable member for Gellibrand says that the answer is no because our energy policy is fundamentally wrong. Of course, he would have a different energy policy. He said that the problem is inflation. That has nothing to do with it. It concerns alternative energy policies. The honourable member spent three-quarters of his speech saying that most of the increase in the CPI over and above what he acknowledged would have occurred was due to increases in the price of oil and increases in health charges. The alternative is to pursue the fairyland energy policy to which the Leader of the Opposition and his cohorts adhere. 
In the area of health insurance the honourable member for Gellibrand would pursue a different policy. He would provide a much greater subsidy to the consumer. At the same time, of course, he does not say that it would cost so much more and would result in a very significant increase in the level of personal taxation in order to finance it. The honourable member for Gellibrand smiles. Well may he smile because he is still the author of that famous speech to Labor economists at Surfers Paradise in which he said that the first obligation of a re-elected Labor government would be to persuade people that they had to agree to a tax increase to rebuild the public sector. He need not feel lonely about that. He is not on his own. Another gentleman delivered a speech on 2 March 1979 in which, inter alia, he said: 
The challenge to traditional democratic socialism has been expressed in a number of deeply dispiriting doctrines. 
This is beautiful alliteration. He continued: 
One example, is the rapid spread of philosophies based on lower taxes and smaller government . . . This sort of approach strikes directly at the conventional democratic socialist notion that equality and equity can only be assured by a stronger public sector. 
The author of that statement was none other than the Leader of the Opposition. It was in his F. E. Chamberlain memorial lecture in Brisbane on 2 March. It is quite obvious what would happen to health insurance if a Labor government were returned. It would restore Medibank, as it promised at its Adelaide conference, although later the Leader of the Opposition said that it would take a while to do it because the shock to the system might be too great. Of course, the financing of a return to the open-ended nature of Medibank would have to involve an increase in personal tax levies. At least some members of the Opposition are candid enough to admit that they believe in that. That is fair enough. Let us have a fair choice and a fair battle. 
But the true comparison and the real test of whether this Government is doing the right thing or the wrong thing with Australia's inflation rate at present is to see how we are faring amongst the industrialised countries. Nobody would deny that energy price increases have had a deleterious effect on the inflation rates of every industrialised country in the world. Nobody has found the magic answer that the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Gellibrand have found- not the American Administration, be it the Democrats or the alternative, the British Administration or any of the Western European administrations. None of them has been able to solve the problem in the way in which the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Gellibrand have been able to solve it. What has happened over the past 12 months is that there has been an acceleration of the rate of inflation all round the world. The question we have to ask ourselves is whether we have responded in the right way or the wrong way. I put it to the House that, in all the circumstances, the response of this Government has been appropriate and that, in all the circumstances, our comparative performance has been very good and compares very favourably with that of other member countries, for example, of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. The truth is that for the six months to August the average rate of inflation in all OECD countries was 12.7 per cent. The rate of inflation in Australia during that period was 9 per cent. That is an improvement in relative terms to the same comparison that would be made over a longer period. 
Whatever people may say about absolute versus relative levels, in a world in which this country must trade in order to survive our relative rate of inflation is a highly significant matter. No country can avoid in some way the effects of the oil price rises of the past 1 8 months. Anybody who pretends that Australia alone can do that is living in fairyland, as apparently some members of the Opposition are doing, on the subject of energy. What has to be asked is whether this country has performed successfully in that area. I believe that this Government has been successful in implementing an effective anti-inflationary strategy. The Government said at the time of the Budget that the consumer price index during the current financial year was likely to be slightly over 10 per cent. Today's result is very much on track with the prediction that was made at the time of the Budget. Of course the CPI is likely to peak during the December quarter, as the honourable member for Gellibrand said. What he did not say was that the probability was that having peaked in the December quarter there would be a renewal of the downward path in the first half of next year. In December there will be the coincidence of most of the effects of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries' rises and the effects of the health insurance changes which were announced in May and carried forward in the increased health insurance premiums announced by the funds a couple of months ago. With those two matters both coming forward in the December quarter, it is only natural that the CPI should peak during that quarter. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand would have us believe that we could avoid that and that if the Australian Labor Party were in government it would have abolished, so far as Australia is concerned, any price effects of increases by OPEC in the price of crude oil. That is the effect of the argument advanced by the honourable member for Gellibrand. However much he may try to qualify it, the fact is that he was trying to persuade this House to accept that if the Labor Party were now in government it would have so arranged Australia's energy policy as to have avoided the consumer price index effects of the increases in the price of crude oil brought about by OPEC over the past 12 months. 
We of the Western industrialised world must learn to live with the fact that we will go on paying high prices for scarce energy resources. Any member of a political party in this country or in any country who parades around telling the electorate that there is an easy alternative to paying heavily for a dwindling energy resource is not only deluding himself but also deluding the electorate he his setting out deliberately to mislead. The reality is that one cannot avoid the inexorable fact that if something is scarce and if one encourages people to consume it, one is going to make it scarcer in an even shorter period. That is precisely the logic which the honourable member Gellibrand has advanced and it is precisely the logic that the Leader of the Opposition supports. The whole case of the Opposition in this debate perishes on the absolutely muddled and contradictory nature of its energy policy. 
-Is it the wish of the House that we adopt the procedure suggested by the Minister? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. The question before the House is: 
That the following proposed expenditures be agreed to: 
Parliament 
Proposed expenditure, $ 1 7,602,000 
Department  of  Administrative Services 
Proposed expenditure, $333,435,000 
Department  of  the Prime Minister and Cabinet 
Proposed expenditure, $52,343,000 
Department  of  Aboriginal Affairs 
Proposed expenditure, $103,538,000 
Department  of  Social Security 
Proposed expenditure, $327,230,000 
Department  of  Health 
Proposed expenditure, $ 1 , 492,266,000 
Department  of  Veterans' Affairs 
Proposed expenditure, $386,615,000 
Department  of  Immigration and Ethnic Affairs 
Proposed expenditure, $71,91 9,000 
Department  of  the Capital Territory 
Proposed expenditure, $80, 1 37,000 
Department  of  Home Affairs 
Proposed expenditure, $83,298,000 
Department  of  Defence 
Proposed expenditure, $2,659,4 15,000 
Department  of  Foreign Affairs 
Proposed expenditure, $572,957,000 
Attorney-General's Department 
Proposed expenditure, $91,688,000 and that the expressions of opinion agreed to by Committee A in relation to the Parliament be noted, namely: 
That the committee is of the opinion that there is an unnecessary duplication of administrative and budgetary functions within the multiplicity of departments that form the total administration of the Parliament. The committee therefore considers that the estimates for the Parliament should be presented under three headings, viz.: Senate, House of Representatives, and the three other departments, without particular items of proposed expenditure being specified, and 
That, in order to relieve accommodation congestion, the committee is of the opinion that the Parliament should have the first call on any accommodation which has become or becomes available in the near vicinity of the present Parliament House. 
-It being 10.30 p.m., I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
The Minister for Primary Industry will be aware that the Bureau of Agricultural Economics recently published revised trends for farm costs and farm income in 1979-80. I ask the Minister whether the figures imply that farmers' incomes for the coming year will be maintained at a relatively high level. 

Order! The vote will be recorded if the honourable member for Wills desires, but I warn him that if he tests the pace of the House much further he could well find himself scratched. 


 Speaker has received letters from both the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  and the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  proposing that definite matters of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion today. As required by Standing Order 107  Mr Speaker  has selected the matter which, in his opinion, is the most urgent and important, that is, that proposed by the honourable member for Robertson, namely: 
The Government's stated intention to hand over to the States certain areas of responsibility for environment protection. 
I therefore call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number qf members required by 

-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the two measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 

Order! It being 10.30 p.m., I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 

Order! Before the honourable member proceeds, he will realise no doubt that he could be accused of reflecting on an honourable member. I seek an assurance from the honourable member that that is not his intention. 
The Minister for Transport will be aware of the discussions at a State level regarding the contemplated withdrawal of one airline from the BrisbaneMaryboroughBundabergGladstone service. Will the Minister inform the House whether he is in a position to exert a proper influence to ensure the maintenance of adequate services to the area affected? 


 Speaker has received a letter from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The Government's failure to protect the rights of the Aboriginal community at Yarrabah Reserve in Queensland. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 


Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 

Chair has been particularly attentive to the sub judice question. There is no substance in the point of order. It being 1 1 p.m. the debate is interrupted. The House stands adjourned until 10.30 a.m. on Thursday. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The honourable member will quickly move to the point of order. 
-The honourable member for Bendigo is required to address himself to the questions before the Committee. 
The honourable member for Werriwa is upset also because he does not have enough time to debate this matter. Goodness me, he had three years in office in which to debate it and the Labor Party did nothing about it. He ought to sit in mute silence and allow a positive government that is doing something positive to proceed with its work and to get these Bills through so that we can carry out the actions that members of the Opposition are claiming should have been taken three years ago. I suggest that honourable members opposite should not argue the point about not getting a fair go. They had three years and they did nothing. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the seven measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-Is leave granted? 
Leave granted. 

 -Mr Speaker has received a letter from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The grave concern of the Australian people arising from the Indonesian treatment of East Timorese. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

-Is the amendment seconded? 
-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
-Is the motion seconded? 

 -Mr Speaker has received a letter from the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The Fraser Government's failure to devise and implement adequate industry development policies. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 


Minister may proceed. 
-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the two measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
-The honourable member for Holt will remain silent. 
-Is leave granted? 
Leave granted. 
Government intends to process fully the 1981 census. There are a number of points that I would like to make on that matter. Firstly, the statement made by the Treasurer seems to be somewhat premature. What happens to the 1 98 1 census will be determined by the Hayden Government rather than by the Fraser Government. I assure the House and the public that the 1981 census will be fully processed by the Hayden Government after that census has been completed. The Opposition is appalled at the fact that the Fraser Government took the approach to the 1976 census which it did, which was to take a sample of only 50 per cent of the population during the 1976 census, thereby wasting the time of 50 per cent of the Australian people in filling in the 1976 census forms and also, of course, making that census data much less reliable and useable. In other words, the census was only a sample. 
The census is the base data for a vast array of statistical analyses in this country. If that base data has statistical error in it, because it is a sample, that reduces the usability of that material and makes all future statistical analyses based on the census that much more subject to error. We regard this as a quite deplorable approach of the Government to sample only some 50 per cent of the population in 1976 and to delay any processing at all for one year. Both of those actions demonstrated an extraordinarily cavalier approach to this very important action of government, which is periodically to undertake a census of the nation to understand exactly what is happening in a whole array of human activity within the country. Our second point is that the Government has decided that the census will only ask 43 questions compared to 68 questions in 1976. We would like to make a number of points on this matter. We understand that we do not need to ask the same questions every time. Various questions were asked in 1976 which had not been asked before and it was important that they were asked then. I suppose it is not essential that they are asked every five years. Perhaps every decade will do. 
We understand that there are other questions which may have been shown to be not worth asking. The response to the questions was poor. People objected vehemently to asking them, or they were not able to understand the reply to make it statistically helpful. So, such questions are better abandoned. This example surely does not apply to this vast number of questions- some 25 out of 68- which were asked last time but which are not to be asked in the 1981 census. We can only conclude that the reason for there being such a considerable reduction in the number of questions asked is the lack of resources of the Bureau of Statistics. I remind the House that the latest annual report of the Australian Bureau of Statistics shows that the total operative staff of the Bureau has declined from 3,670 in June 1975 to 3,445 in June of this year, that is, a reduction of 225 members. With that reduced staff, the ability of the Bureau to undertake various activities, including census activities, is accordingly reduced. That must be one of the reasons which accounts for this considerable reduction in the number of questions asked. 
If there was to be a sample survey on some of the topics which were raised in those questions and which are now not to be asked, this would in our view make it less annoying that those questions have been dropped from the census. If sample surveys had been carried out about child care for instance- that is one of the questions being dropped- such surveys may give us the kind of information that we need. But those sample surveys to get that information will clearly not be held because the Government has not given the Bureau the resources it needs. Not asking those questions in the census means that that information is simply not available and will not be available whilst this Government remains in office. A measure of the extraordinary inability of the Bureau to undertake basic sampling surveys is shown by the fact that such items as household expenditure surveys which are basic to information in a whole array of areas, not the least of which are those areas which are the bases on which the consumer price index is established, are not to be undertaken in the near future. I mention also the consumer finances and expenditure survey. This is an extraordinarily important survey to find out about wealth distribution in this country. It has never been held. It was planned but it has had to be abandoned by the Bureau because of lack of resources. In that situation it is clear that we will not get the kinds of questions asked by way of sample surveys which we should have had if those questions are not going to be in the census. This indicates the real difference between the Government and the Opposition on this matter of information. 
We, as a party of reform and change, have a great interest in getting as much information as possible about what is going on and what the facts of life are in this country. We regard the census as tremendously important in that respect. But the Government, as a party of status quo and as a party which is not interested in change, is not interested in providing that information. Indeed it is concerned in many areas to hide the information which would be usable by a party of reform. 
Finally, I refer to some of the issues which are not going to be the subject of this census. I mention child care and the area of ethnicity. We find that the question regarding language regularly used is not going to be asked. That was a question put in 1 976 that will not be asked this time. I think that it is a pretty important question to get some information for policy in regard to education and other matters. Surely it would be interesting to know how retirement benefit cover in this country was operating and who has not such cover. We know from sample surveys that many blue collar workers have no such cover. We should be able to examine those trends. The source of people's income will not be asked this time although the actual amount of their income will. We regard the question of the source of income as being a very important question, not least as a check against the income question itself. There are various other issues which I will not go through at this time. 
We do applaud the Government's public awareness campaign. As the Treasurer said, the Government intends to hold a public awareness campaign to obtain public co-operation and acceptance of the census. That is an extraordinarily sensible thing to do. I understand that the campaign has been called for by the Australian Statistics Advisory Council. We fully applaud the Government in undertaking that measure. The other two measures mentioned by the Treasurer, and which were recommendations of the Law Reform Commission, are not matters which I have had the chance to consider at this stage. I will make the Opposition's view on those questions known at a later date. 
-There the matter must rest. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I uphold the point of order. 
Motion ( by  Mr Viner)  put: 
That the honourable member be not further heard. 
-The question is: That at a later hour this day the House will again resolve itself into a Committee of the Whole. 
-There is no substance to the point of order. The Bill originated in the Senate and the time has passed for that action. 
-The question is: 
That, in relation to the proceedings on the following Bills, so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Leader of the House making one declaration of urgency and moving one motion for the allotment of time in respect of all the Bills: 
-Is leave granted? 

 -Mr Speaker has received a letter from the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The intensification of stagflation in the Australian economy resulting from Government policies. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. 

 More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places- 

-It being 10.30 p.m., I propose the question: That the House do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
