-I ask the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs: Has a decision been taken regarding the continuation of interpreter-translator training courses initiated in 1975 at the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology, the Institute of Languages of the University of New South Wales, and die Canberra College of Advanced Education? What action is the Government intending to take regarding employment opportunities for persons who completed the courses in 1 975? 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I refer to the discussions that the Government properly initiated with employee and employer organisations concerning the future of the Prices Jutification Tribunal. When is the next round of discussions due to take place and what is the current position concerning the future of the Prices Justification Tribunal? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, it is a great honour and privilege to stand here today and to speak in this AddressinReply debate as the representative of the people of Higgins. I am well aware that I represent all the people of Higgins for I like other honourable members stand for and act for all the electors of my electorate in the work of governing and legislating in this Parliament. I,  Sir, am  their representative. I think that this House is most aptly named the House of Representatives and I as one representative of the people of Australia will remember this as I serve the people of Higgins. 
May I ask you,  Sir, to  extend to the  Speaker,  the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden),  my congratulations upon his election to that high office. May I record,  Sir, that  as I go through my electorate and as I speak to the people of Higgins I am told how pleased they are that  Mr Speaker  Snedden has been appointed to this high office. May I also congratulate the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  on his appointment to the position of  Chairman  of Committees. Since I have come to this place I have learned and seen for myself the respect in which he is held on all sides of the House. 
It is my pleasure today to support the motion moved by the honourable member for EdenMonaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  in supporting the Governor-General's Speech.  His Excellency  the Governor-General clearly stated the objectives of the Government. The role of government is to set national goals and to harness the nation's resources in the public interest so that the standard of living of all Australians can increase. The former Government took the attitude that it could spend on what it considered desirable without realising that it was impossible to do so without cutting the private sector to minimum prosperity. Its attitude was like realising that a mortgage was needed for the purchase of a home but forgetting to arrange the mortgage. It is, of course, proper to determine spending priorities, but this debate can only take place after it is known how much one can spend. Governments will have more to spend with a healthy private sector. It is only with a recognition that a healthy industrial and commercial sector is necessary that we can have sufficient growth in the private sector. It is only in this way that a government can improve the standard and style of living of the whole community. Only with the harnessing of a strong and healthy private sector can we improve the standard of living and lifestyle of all Australians. With balanced growth of the private sector the Government can syphon off adequate taxes for desirable but not wasteful social programs. I welcome the objectives in the GovernorGeneral's Speech to bring under control the highest unemployment in 40 years and the worst prolonged inflation in the nation's history. 
I also welcome His Excellency's statement that the Government's aim is to encourage the development of an Australia in which the people have maximum freedom and independence to achieve their goals in life in ways in which they decide and the recognition that the disadvantaged must be helped in ways which leave them the maximum independence. 
The creation of national wealth is important in achieving these objectives. There needs to be more emphasis on creating wealth rather than arguing how it will be spent. With increased community wealth governments can spend more on pensions, schools, roads, health and other welfare programs and on government administration. To create wealth we need profit and capital. Both these concepts have been under constant attack by our friends opposite. In times of inflation the challenges to creating community wealth are doubled. Inflation threatens our whole system and our way of life. Profit is a word misunderstood by many and certainly by my friends opposite. It is vital to our survival. I do not defend excessive profits but I do defend reasonable ones. It is through profit that wages and salaries are generated. It is from profit that taxes are paid- the higher the profit the more tax paid and the more money that governments have to spend. It is from profit that cash is generated for further investment. Figures produced by the former Tariff Board show that after tax profits of manufacturing companies on average are only a little over 4c in every $ 1 worth of sales and out of that 4c dividends have to be paid. Of course, the largest portion of every dollar of sales goes firstly into the purchase of raw materials and in wages and salaries. 
Australia is like a giant corporation and we are all shareholders in this great country of ours. The country needs capital to invest for the well being of all Australians. The accumulation of capital is denigrated by our socialist friends. The accumulation of capital is made almost impossible in times of high inflation. It is under attack on all fronts. Governments must respond to the challenges of erosion of capital. For instance, the value of one's savings bank deposits decreases every year. This hurts most Australians. All governments must examine their tax structures, for just to put people back to where they stood 5 years ago in terms of value of their savings deposits will require massive action. The Government's proposal to implement its tax indexation policy is a start in this direction. We must reduce the tax burden. Reduction of tax is vital in the fight against inflation. I welcome the Government's immediate objective to bring inflation under control so that there can again be jobs for those who want to work. With three out of four jobs in Australia being in the private sector the importance of a healthy and vital private sector is a key to solving the unemployment problem. 
Capital is not only national but also international in its character. That other much maligned institution, the multinational, the transnational or the international corporationall these words mean the same thing- has indeed been responsible for the international transfer of capital and technology around the world. Many things which are the product of the technological age that we all take for granted would not be enjoyed by us today but for this. This is not to condone the illegal activities of any corporation anywhere in the world, but we must realise that this ramification of bringing technology to all the world is important. 
All corporations, like all individuals, must obey the laws. We must have rules to encourage Australian ownership and there must be certain and defined guidelines so that investors know the rules of the game. We must have appropriate laws and regulations defining the Australian national interest in relation to new and existing overseas investment. I have said that all companies must obey the law, as all citizens must obey the law. Similarly, corporations must not abuse power. All abuses of monopoly power must be curbed, whether they are abuses by companies or abuses of monopoly power by unions. We, the public, must be protected on the one hand from the potential abuses of monopoly power in the private sector, and on the other hand from the potential abuses of monopoly power by organised labour. Strong and effective trade practice and consumer protection laws are vital to the future of the private sector. All individuals, all companies and all firms must accept this. 
However, I welcome the Government's review of the Trade Practices Act. It is particularly disturbing that the abuse of monopoly power by unions does not seem to be subject to the provisions of this Act but that the activities of corporations and companies are. This is an unnecessary and an unfair discrimination. I draw attention to the report by the Trade Practices Commission that it is powerless to deal with unions which engage in illegal trading activities. The Commission is unable to proceed against the Transport Workers Union in Sydney whose actions have caused the price of petrol to be higher in Sydney than it would otherwise be. Consumers ought to be protected against the abuse of union power. The aim of the trade practices legislation must be to protect the public interest. The public interest must be defined and seen in terms of the Australian environment. Ours is a vast country, with the main manufacturing centres on the east coast far from each other, with the main mining centres in isolated parts of Australia. Geography and population and the need for investment have to be taken into account as well as the needs of the individual consumer. 
I hope that the proposed review of the Trade Practices Act will resolve the conflict between the Industries Assistance Commission and the Trade Practices Commission. The Industries Assistance Commission on the one hand encourages firms to be efficient, to get together and to organise and rationalise their activities. To do this they may need to have an agreement between them, even to merge, or for one to take over the other, but in doing so they may in fact be committing an offence under the Trade Practices Act because their agreement, merger or understanding may be taken to be in restraint of trade. There are inconsistent objectives in these 2 statutes. The inconsistency inhibits and stops people from investing. I have referred previously to the importance of investment. A common form of investment today is by way of a joint venture where a number of companies join together, because today, with the large amount of capital required, it is often too expensive for one corportation or individual to spend the money alone. If a group of companies is to develop in this manner by way of a joint venture they are hardly likely to invest if their activities are likely to be an offence under the Trade Practices Act. Similarly, it is ridiculous for exporters in an industry to agree with each other on export prices if to do so is likely to commit an offence. 
Another effect is the price discrimination section of the Act which was borrowed by the former Government from a similar United States statute. I was always amazed that the former Government was ready to criticise the United States at all times while in the Trade Practices Act it borrowed many sections from the United States legislation without paying any tribute whatever. Under this new provision of the Act it is, in effect, an offence to sell to different people at different prices if the difference in price is likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition. I believe that a review will show that in some cases the effect of this section is to keep prices higher than they might otherwise be. I consider that the consumers- the customers and the people of Australia- are suffering. 
I welcome the Government's emphasis on directing welfare assistance to those in real need. I am delighted that it is recognised that voluntary welfare agencies are a critically important part of the welfare system. In regard to voluntary agencies I quote the report of the Henderson Commission of Inquiry into Poverty. It states: 
In order to provide what people want and will use, we recommend in general that generous subsidies be given to a wide variety of self-help groups . . . 
The report points out that there are many groups, such as single mothers and Aborigines, who understand the needs of their members and can make a most valuable contribution towards meeting them. Voluntary organisationswhether they be in the field of child care, preschool education, health, the aged, the handicapped or whatever- play a vital role in the delivery of assistance to those in need. Voluntary agencies and the work they do must not be denigrated. 
I conclude,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  by looking at Australia's position in the world today. I am pleased to see that  His  Excellency's Speech states: 'Priority will be given to the protection of Australian interests in areas adjacent to our continent'. I am delighted that the Government supports the efforts of the United States of America to balance the Soviet presence which has built up in the Indian Ocean since 1968, while hoping that mutual restraint will keep the presence of forces at the lowest practicable level. I applaud the Government's support of the United States development of modest communications and other facilities at Diego Garcia. Around the Indian Ocean a number of important African and Asian states, with which we have close and friendly relations which we value, exercise an increasing influence on regional affairs. Last week at the meeting of the Association of SouthEast Asian Nations in Bali, the meeting resolved that consideration be given towards securing recognition of and respect for a zone of peace. This is a valuable and understandable objective, for we must recognise and understand that not all countries wish to be involved in super power arguments. 
However, let us clearly understand what is happening around us. There has been a gradual Russian build-up in the Indian Ocean since 1968. It includes submarines and all other crafts of war. Russia has logistics facilities at Somalia on the east coast of Africa. The fleet calls at Aden. Details of the base in Somalia became available only recently. The Suez Canal is now open and the Russian fleet can encircle the world from the Black Sea to Vladivostok. A belt of Marxism is spreading across Africa. Russian advisers and equipment are spread throughout that continent. The tragedy of Angola is complete. It is an international outrage. Events in Angola have added a regrettable new dimension to international politics. Every country with a Marxist independence movement must shiver in its boots. Where will the puppet Cubans, backed with Russian aid pulling the strings, strike again? Will it always be the Cubans, or will other players be found? 
We must press on with the defence studies mentioned in  His  Excellency's Speech and develop capabilities on our western seaboard. We must have more ships. I welcome the announcement by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  of the purchase of 2 new destroyers. I welcome United States use of our facilities- not because I wish to be servile to the United States but because it is in Australia's national interest and because our 2 countries have democratic and pioneering traditions in common. There is great goodwill between the people of our 2 lands. I believe that, by our concern for events in the Indian Ocean, by our support of the United States development of Diego Garcia and by our support of United States efforts to balance the Soviet presence in the Indian Ocean, we can give reassurance and encouragement to the United States in its efforts to curb Soviet power and contribute to the defence of the free world. I thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and honourable members for listening to me with courtesy. 
It is with pleasure that I rise to speak in this debate in support of the Nitrogenous Fertilisers Subsidy Amendment Bill and the Phosphate Fertilisers Bounty Amendment Bill. I do so in the spirit mentioned by my colleague the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  who so well put the point of view that we on this side of the House govern in the national interest. We are a Party that represents all Australians. This superphosphate matter is a national issue. As I shall show, it is an issue that affects all Australians. As is well known, and as has been pointed out today, this country has deficiencies. As well as being deficient in a responsible, cohesive Opposition it is also deficient in phosphate and nitrogen. 
When Batman arrived in the area where Melbourne now stands and when McMillan walked over the mountains into Gippsland, and the pioneers went into the hinterland they found natural pasture growing. There has been an agricultural revolution in this country by the addition of these fertilisers to the pastures. But the original kangaroo grasses and the original pasture that was here in these early days have now gone. To take away superphosphate, to take away these fertilisers from the pastures, will mean that they must ultimately revert perhaps to the original pastures or to some other form, and scientists and none of us really know what it will be like. I hope that more research will be done and debate will occur before this bounty expires so that we will have enough knowledge of what is really needed in this area. Much of rural production depends heavily on the use of phosphatic fertilisers, particularly the fertiliser, superphosphate, that we are talking about today. I ask the question: What does happen to the Australian rural economy without superphosphate? 
The honourable member for Eden-Monaro also referred to the gulf between the city and the country. There is a divisiveness in our community today that is encouraged by the attitude of the Opposition, which breeds distrust between country and city communities. This is a matter of great regret to me personally as a person from the city, because it is only since the Industrial Revolution that most of us have been in the cities. It is only in this time that the nature of our society has changed. Every time I hear that great national song, Waltzing Matilda, I think that all Australians have a feeling of emotion and a feeling of nationhood and national pride when that song is sung in the cities or the country. It is a song about the country. It is a song about a swagman who sits by the billabong by a pond, and it is about a sheep. As I think about that national song I think: Well, if around that billabong the land did not have superphosphate fertiliser put on it, it would certainly be phosphate deficient. I think that is something all of us in the cities ought to remember, because in the cities we do depend on the country. In the morning the first thing we do is to have breakfast. The breakfast food comes from the country; the milk comes from the country; the sugar comes from the country; the meat we eat comes from the country. All these vital things in our lives, our very substance of living, come from the country and largely rely on fertiliser. We all have to eat. We all have this relationship with the country. 
To listen to my friends opposite one would think that the only people who live in the country are wealthy farmers. I have news for them. There are not only farmers in the country, there are country towns and great provincial cities in Australia that depend on a vital and healthy rural economy. To knock 'wealthy' farmers is to miss the point completely. The wealthy farmers that the Opposition talks about have in large part disappeared because of the Opposition's policies when in government. The larger a farm the larger the potential to make a large loss. Many of the large units of rural production in this country at the present time are making large losses. There are many small farms where there is poverty. The Henderson Committee report on poverty refers to rural poverty. In one case it referred to a dairy production area where one farmer with 5 dependent children claimed that his family had only fried onions to eat. He said that they did not eat meat except for pork bones. 
There are many people in the farming sector in real need of welfare assistance. Whilst we do not say that these measures are welfare measures, they in part will put some confidence back on the one hand and on the other put some life back into the economy in a financial sense. When farmers purchase superphosphate they create jobs. 
In one country town that I heard about a carrier who used to employ 12 people to distribute superphosphate fertiliser now employs only 4 people to distribute it. Farmers employ people. As I pointed out in my maiden speech in this House, the largest percentage of their business incomes goes firstly for the payment of wages and the purchase of materials and secondly in the payment of income tax. I have talked of poverty, amongst farmers and in the rural community. I shall quote from the Henderson report because I think we should understand the extent of rural poverty. The report stated: 
Of the 399 000 income units in Australia with incomes, before housing costs, less than the poverty line, 142 000 were living in rural areas. 
I turn now to the speeches against these measures made on behalf of the Opposition. Firstly, I refer to the speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  who started eloquently by talking about moral bankruptcy. If anybody knows how to bankrupt the businesses of Australia he does. He did not give us any examples of the harm that he had done to both the farming and business communities. He forgets that farmers run businesses. Farmers arc businessmen. They are small businessmen in some parts and they are large businessmen in other parts. They are no different from businessmen in the cities in that regard. The whole attack of the Leader of the Opposition was a knock. All we heard was a great, eloquent speech of knockerism He criticised the majority report of the Industries Assistance Commission. He referred to the competent Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  as a fledgling. He is some fledgling! We all know how high and well he is flying. When the Leader of the Opposition said that I thought how that honourable gentleman is like a lame duck flying around with a bit of shot in his wings from his own side of the House, looking around for a pond in which to settle finally when his Party has all its leadership problems sorted out. So much for his argument. We heard nothing new in it. The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  who I am pleased to say is in the House at present, made a better speech than his Leader did. I wish him well in the future in the leadership battle ahead. 
-I thank him for his interjection. 
-The honourable member might need a few. He does not have many friends. He knocked the large farmers as is easy to do, and said that when the previous Government was in office it looked at a scheme to give superphosphate bounty assistance only to the small farmers of Australia but found that that would not work. Nowhere from the other side of the House did we hear a constructive point of view of what the Opposition would do. Did members of the Opposition tell us how they would solve the problems of rural welfare? Did they tell us how they would solve the immense rural problems of Australia which the present Government is tackling? No, in the debate on these Bills we have not heard one constructive point, nor in the few weeks that this Parliament has sat have we heard any constructive words on how to govern the country. All we hear are attacks on the Governor-General and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Members of the Opposition knock everything in sight. I can assure them that the people of Australia, like the people on this side of the House, are sick and tired of that. 
I refer again to the speech of the honourable member for Blaxland. He said that he supported the Nitrogenous Fertilizers Subsidy Amendment Bill because, on balance, the nitrogen subsidy went to small farmers. Does that mean that he is against giving tariff assistance to the large manufacturing industries in Australia? We know how well the Opposition did when it was in government in bringing large and small manufacturing industry in city and country to its knees by reducing tariffs. But does his argument mean that no large industries in Australia- the steel industry and the car industry to name two- because they are large will not have any tariff protection, that the workers in those factories, the employees, all those Australians who are looking to this Government for assistance to get out of the economic mess caused by the previous Government, will not be assisted? I find complete inconsistency in his argument. 
In the final minutes of my speech I should like to refer to the relationship between the problems of rural industry and the problems of manufacturing industry. Also, as I have said, the problems of poverty have to be looked at. I should like to quote from the Green Paper on Rural Policy in Australia which was a report to the former Prime Minister. I should like to use this to counter an argument put by the Leader of the Opposition a few minutes ago when he said that the rural industry was in large part cyclical and therefore it is silly to give superphosphate bounty assistance to that industry in times when there is perhaps overproduction. I believe that what I am about to read to the House completely counters that argument. The Green Paper states: . . . cyclical fluctuations in incomes of rural producers can be expected to recur . . . These not only have adverse effect on the welfare of rural producers, on their employees and on the rural people and institutions dependent on agricultural industries but they have adverse resource allocation effects. It would make good economic sense, on both efficiency and welfare grounds, to distribute these incomes more evenly over time. By analogy, a hypothetical distribution of compensatory assistance over time, to make it countercyclical, would consequently improve economic efficiency in the rural sector and would remove one area of potential conflict between economic efficiency and welfare. 
I believe that the superphosphate Bill to which we are addressing our attention at present at least in part starts well on the way to doing that. We on this side of the House are interested in the people in the country, contrary to the views expressed by those opposite. 
I refer finally to the relationship in the manufacturing sense between city and country. Initially the wealth of Australia and its cities came from the creation of wealth in the rural sector and the mining sector. We relied for years on our exports of rural products to develop this great land of ours. The tariff was originally designed to encourage employment in the manufacturing sector and to create wealth there and generally to transfer resources from the rural to the manufacturing sector. Therefore the tariff has a compensating effect because of the loss to the rural industries of elements of income that they would otherwise have earned. I think that in any proper debate on this subject we always have to remember that there is a relationship between the manufacturing sector, the primary industry sector and, as I have said, the welfare area of those in need in the country. 
These measures are of an interim nature. I support the views of the honourable member for Mackellar who looks forward to the development of Australian deposits of phosphate rock. I look forward to an examination by the Government in the period that this bounty is in force until 30 June 1977 so that we can have a good look at what is happening in rural Australia, so that hopefully we can develop welfare policies to assist those in need in those areas and so that we can develop reconstruction policies in certain sections of the industry. We can have a complete look after the Industries Assistance Commission report is to hand to see where we are going in the development of this country. I am confident that at the end of the period the people of Australia will not be disappointed in our measures. 
-I ask the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs a question concerning a customs and narcotics matter. Is the Minister aware of the recent discovery on a Victorian beach of a suitcase containing drugs estimated to be worth in excess of $50,000? Does the Minister have evidence that smuggling is occurring on the Victorian and New South Wales coasts? Is adequate surveillance, including naval patrols, taking place to see that smuggling does not occur? 
-Is the Treasurer aware of recent Press reports that the State Savings Bank of 
Victoria recently made it more difficult to obtain a housing loan by changing the conditions of eligibility? Have some building societies recently increased interest rates on housing loans? Can the honourable gentleman inform the House whether he believes, in view of the issue of the Australian Savings Bonds at an interest rate 9.2 per cent per annum, that housing interest rates may soon fall and that housing loans may become easier to obtain? 
I rise to support the Superannuation Bill which introduces a new superannuation scheme for public servants of the Commonwealth of Australia. I believe that we must view this Bill in historical perspective in order to understand it. The first Commonwealth scheme was introduced in 1922. It was amended in 1943, 1 believe, to cover long term temporary public servants, and it was also amended at that time to cover persons employed by approved authorities. A Treasury committee was set up in 1971 under a Liberal-Country Party government. The committee reported to the Parliament in 1973 and recommended that a new scheme be established. In 1975 a very generous- a far too generous- scheme was introduced into this Parliament by the previous Government. This scheme was rejected. Today a sensible and practical scheme has been presented to the people as part of an election undertaking given by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations and the Administrative and Clerical Officers' Association. It is important that the Bill be seen in the light of that undertaking. 
I welcome the Bill for a number of reasons. There has certainly been a great pressure on a number of public servants who had important personal decisions to make. The old superannuation scheme was based on a unit form of pension contribution. Some members of the Superannuation Fund paid contributions of 2 per cent of their salary in their early years of service, while in their later years of service when they were over 40 years of age they were faced with having to pay up to 25 per cent of their salary in contributions in order to receive a reasonable benefit. That, of course, placed a great personal strain on a number of people. For this reason I welcome the new scheme. 
The position of women has been recognised in the new scheme and has been given special attention in 2 areas. Firstly, the qualifying or vesting period for preservation of rights has been reduced from 20 years to 5 years, so that if a woman wishes after 5 years to leave the Public Service for reasons of child rearing, she can do so, return at a later date and have her rights preserved. Secondly, provision has been made in respect of the pension paid to the surviving spouse of a deceased contributor. In the old scheme the pension ceased on the remarriage of the widow. Under the new proposal the pension does not cease on the remarriage of the widow or widower. This is a welcome step because the provision in the old scheme, and in fact in many private schemes, that the payment of pension ceased on remarriage is in fact a fetter on remarriage and in cases where there are dependent children it often encourages people not to remarry. I think that is contrary to the socially desirable ideal of a 2 parent family being a better family in which to bring up children than perhaps a one parent family. Therefore, I welcome those amendments. 
I wish to refer to the cost of the scheme and to the views of some Opposition speakers who have expressed disappointment with it. They believe that the scheme will destroy incentive and motivation in the Public Service. The honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  is quoted in the  Canberra Times  as saying that the scheme 'would destroy incentive and motivation for many younger public servants whose promotion prospects would be thwarted'. I believe that is completely untrue because this scheme is a most generous scheme and compared with schemes in the private sector it is unparalleled and will act as a motivation for people to work in the Public Service. It will encourage people to stay and work harder in the Public Service. I refer to a recent article in the  National Times  written by  Mr Robert  Gottliebsen, a respected financial journalist. The article is entitled: 'Check Canberra's superannuation scheme with yours'.  Mr Gottliebsen  states: 
For the first time, private industry can compare its superannuation funds with that of the Commonwealth Public Service. Public servants come out clear winners. 
I commend that article and comments to my friends opposite. If honourable members opposite compare private schemes with the proposal before the House they will see that that proposal is very generous indeed. 
I would like to refer to the position of existing pension scheme contributors because they will be entitled to the benefits of the new scheme but will not be required to complete 30 years contribu.tary service to qualify for the full Government financed pension and will continue to be subject to the less restrictive service provisions of the existing pension scheme. I think that point is worth pointing out. Under the scheme before the House a person retiring from the Public Service can receive a 50 per cent pension, being the equivalent of 50 per cent of his final salary on the day before he retires. He pays 5 per cent of his salary by way of contributions, which he can get back in a lump sum payment on retirement; alternatively he can commute that amount, as an alternative, to a pension. I would imagine that for contributors to private schemes the pension payable would be a proportion of average salary over the final years of service. The pension might be, say, 50 per cent of average salary over the last 6 years of service. Some of the larger and wealthier funds may average it over three or four years. This Public Service provision in itself is a very generous one and puts the private sector under pressure. As a measure of the generosity of this scheme I would suspect that only the largest companies give anywhere near the benefits available under this scheme. Of course, there are many small businesses which have lesser schemes and many medium sized companies and small businesses which have no schemes at all, and of course, they cannot compete. 
I think we should look at the effect of the scheme on the private sector when we are criticising this Fund for not giving motivation to people in the Public Service. I believe that the trend when economic conditions improve will be to put pressure on the private sector. I believe that pressure will be put on corporatons by senior staff to get schemes comparable to the scheme which is before the House. I believe that as a result some employee groups will get more than others because employers will see quite clearly that they cannot afford to give to everyone and will give only to those to whom they can. There is, of course, a risk that this may cause a greater gulf between executives of companies and people on the shop floor. I hope that this does not occur but there is a risk that it will. 
I believe that public servants must recognise that the benefits that they will be given in this legislation, which as I have pointed out are more generous than those given to the private sector, will have to be taken into account by them in future wage demands. They may in fact have to accept less by way of future wage increases than they might otherwise be prepared to accept. The private sector funds cannot guarantee and really cannot compete with the provisions in this legislation for cost of living increases to be added to pensions. A point of the Bill which I think is forward looking is the point providing for portability between the private and public sectors. Where a public servant wishes to transfer to the private sector his rights are preserved if he qualifies for the period of 5 years to which I have referred. Similarly, somebody coming from the private sector can bring with him that lump sum and buy back service. That is an important step because I believe that as a government and as a nation we ought to be encouraging the transfer of people between the private and public sectors so that each can understand the other better. For that reason I welcome this provision. 
A major question raised by this legislation is the one of financial responsibility which is a very important factor. Today, because this legislation is in a simplified form, the people of Australia and the members of this Parliament can know for the first time the cost of the scheme. We are on the road to discovering the real costs and, as parliamentarians in particular and as a Parliament as a whole, we have a responsibility to tell the people of this nation the cost of the scheme. We can see the real costs. I should point out that the extremely generous provisions of the City of New York scheme were one of the many factors that brought that city into its financial difficulties. I am not suggesting that this scheme is going to bring the Government of Australia into financial difficulties but I am saying that it is important that all of us should understand the cost of the scheme. 1 should like to refer to the explanatory memorandum, which states that if the Government liability for benefits were to be funded by the Government making its contribution at the same time as employees, the Government contributions for new contributors under the existing arrangements, expressed as a percentage of salary, under this new scheme would be 1 8.8 per cent of salary. That is, if it were a funded scheme, the Government would pay into the fund an average of 1 8.8 per cent of salaries. It is interesting to note that the private sector could not compete. I do not think that companies could put in 18.8 per cent of payroll for new members and I, by way of comparison, suspect that in the private sector the average contribution would be of the order of 7 per cent to 10 per cent. I hope that the Government actuaries can estimate the 1976 cost of this fund, and I ask the Minister to consider making these figures available to the Parliament and to the people. The estimated capital cost to the Government by way of the estimated capital values as at 30 June 1974 in respect of existing pensioners is contained in Appendix B of the explanatory memorandum and I ask leave of the House to incorporate that document in  Hansard. 

 -Mr Deputy 
 Speaker- (Quorum formed) I rise to support this legislation and in doing so should like to bring to the attention of the House the speech by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  because I think there were some fallacies therein. He talked about restrictive practices being rife in Australia and about their causing prices to be maintained at artificially high levels but he did not tell us about the restrictive practices carried on by sections of the union movement. Neither he nor the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  told us of the abuses of the use of monopoly power that exist in this area. No member opposite referred to the situation in New South Wales where the Transport Workers Union has a ban, part of which has been temporarily suspended for the purposes of the State election, on the supply of cheap petrol. We did not hear a word of the abuses m this area and I think the speech of the honourable member for Port Adelaide was deficient in that respect. 
He also said that the Australian people must be wary of any attempt to water down the trade practices legislation. I can assure him that there is no intention on the part of Government supporters to water down the Trade Practices Act. I can assure him and the people of Australia of that fact. We believe in strong and effective trade practices legislation in the public interest. We believe that the consumer- the man in the streetmust be protected on the one hand from abuses in the private sector and on the other hand from abuses by the use of monopoly power by organised labour to which I have already referred and about which my friends opposite have been remarkably silent. The average citizen stands in the middle. It is essential to the survival of the free enterprise system that we have strong and effective trade practice laws. It is also essential for the survival of our free enterprise system that the union movement recognises that abuse of power will no longer be accepted by the Australian community. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide also said that he thought that the activities of the Trade Practices Commission were being curtailed. I find no evidence of this. I have heard no complaint of this from the Commission. When the honourable member said that Federal officers of the Commission will have to take over when the State office of the Commission finds that more detailed inquiry is needed in a State in which a company may be operating I, probably like members of the Commission, found that insulting to the members of the State offices of the Trade Practices Commission who I am sure are most effective people carrying out the work of that office. Why he necessarily believes that someone should fly from Canberra to investigate a matter elsewhere in Australia where there are adequate and competent people to do so is beyond me. 
-It was the honourable member for Port Adelaide. I support the amendment that makes it possible for governments, both Federal and State, to make public interest submissions to the Trade Practices Commission on matters of authorisation. Matters of authorisation are heard by the Commission and parties have to prove, when applying for an authorisation, that a substantial benefit must be available. I hope that the Trade Practices Review Committee will look into this matter and perhaps at matters that were referred to in the old section 50 of the  Trade Practices Act  1971-73 because the public interest in anti-competitive matters is a subject for wide ranging inquiry. The old section took into account:  the needs and interests of consumers, employees, producers, distributors, importers, exporters, proprietors and investors; the needs and interests of small businesses; the promotion of new enterprises; the need to achieve the full and efficient use and distribution of labour, capital, materials, industrial capacity, industrial knowhow and other resources; the need to achieve the production, provision, treatment and distribution, by efficient and economical means, of goods and services of such quality, quantity and price as will best meet the requirements of domestic and overseas markets; and the ability of Australian producers and exporters to compete in overseas markets. 
I personally think that matters of that nature need to be taken into account as well as some of the competitive tests in some other sections of the Act. 
I welcome the proposed discontinuance of the special treatment that foreign companies receive under the Act in respect of takeovers. Under the existing legislation if a company gets a certificate under the Foreign Takeovers Act it can produce it to the Trade Practices Commission and the Commission must automatically let that takeover proceed. This Bill seeks to make foreign and domestic companies equal. This is a good thing. But on the subject of domestic and foreign companies, I hope that companies, prominent individuals and people from the private sector will appear before the Trade Practices Review Committee and as the result of their experience put cases for changes. I know that industry associations will do so. I know that they recognise that they have a proper part to play in such a matter and that they have a proper part to play in the free enterprise sector by representing various business interests. I also understand why in some cases companies prefer to have their views put by an individual association rather than by the company itself. Whilst I understand the reluctance and perhaps the desire of companies for anonymity it is important that individuals with experience contribute to national debate on this subject and on the general issue of the worth of the private sector. It is important that people of responsibility in the business community and the private sector contribute to the general debate on the defence of the free enterprise system. We in this Parliament proudly defend it. We speak on it. We are prepared to be accounted for on it. We are criticised by our friends opposite for our defence of it. I say to businessmen of Australia with something to contribute to the debate: Help the survival of your way of life by so doing. 
Quite a number of business leaders and eminent industry spokesmen have made outstanding contributions to the debate. But many others are reluctant to speak and remain silent. To them I say: Speak not only at annual meetings of companies, speak not only by way of a chairman's or managing director's address, but speak when you feel you have something to say to contribute to the national interest. It is not only business leaders who must contribute but those businessmen, executives and union leaders who have something to say. To the boards of medium and large companies I say: Let the heads of your economics, statistics, legal or research departments participate in public debate by speaking at seminars, by publishing articles and by generally making a contribution. Some of the private banks have made contributions in this regard by participating in economic surveys. Some corporations naturally have a reluctance to let executives who are specialists in particular fields comment in the public arena. Again I say to them: 
Let these people contribute because it is important in the' national interest and for the defence of our way of life and the free enterprise system that they do so. 
The next item to which I would like to refer is proposed new section 163a. This proposed new section envisages applications to the court for a declaration in relation to the operation or effect of the Act with one exception. I welcome this provision. I agree with the honourable member for Grayndler that it is not an enormously farreaching provision because of the nature of the interpretation that the courts have placed on it which is in part due to the constitutional limitations on the judicial power. To make a declaration the court needs a matter before it. A dispute or justiciable issue would need to be before the court. Perhaps the parties need to have a real interest in the matter. There would need to be something like a right being threatened or a claim to assert. What I do say is that this is a welcome amendment. However, I think it raises another matter that the Trade Practices Review Committee might like to consider. Parties may be engaged in litigation on a contract in a State supreme court and one of the parties may take the point that the contract at issue is an invalid one under the Trade Practices Act of the Commonwealth. Rather than perhaps needing to apply for a declaration under this provision to the Australian Industrial Court it might be worth considering and conducting a debate- and I put it at no higher level than that- as to whether there ought not to be some right of concurrent jurisdiction with both State and Federal courts, if that does not now exist. 
I would like to conclude my remarks by referring to some of the comments that were made by the honourable member for Grayndler. I took him to say that there was no public demand for change to the Trade Practices Act. Many businessmen have made legitimate complaints, not because they are breaking the law or because they are carrying on illegal practices but because of some uncertainties that have been created. I would have hoped that the honourable member for Grayndler with his business experience would have recognised that. He said that there was no public demand in the case of the price discrimination section of the legislation. Well, the people may not be rising in the streets for change in respect of legislation which was borrowed from a similar United States of America statute and which, as the honourable member knows, causes lawyers who have to interpret it great trouble and perhaps financial reward. To my mind the effect of the section in Australia has been to keep prices unnecessarily high in some cases where a supplier or manufacturer has been reluctant to reduce prices to one customer because he feels that he may be discriminating against another customer to whom he sold the same product at a higher price last week. I believe that if the matter were examined- I hope evidence is put before the Trade Practices Review Committee- we would find that people are paying higher prices in some areas as a result of this section. 
I also took the honourable member to sayand he can correct me if I am wrong- that he was not concerned about the area of conflict between the Industries Assistance Commission and the Trade Practices Commission. 
-With great respect and no disrespect I disagree with the honourable member. I think there is an inherent conflict between the philosophy of efficiency and rationalisation as expressed through Industries Assistance Commission reports and the Trade Practices Act. The very nature of the philosophy that comes through in Industries Assistance Commission reports is that industry has to be economic and efficient in this country. This philosophy will often involve people having to rationalise production. The Industries Assistance Commission discourages fragmentation or uneconomic small manufacturing units which means that people have to get together. To get together in the terms of the Industries Assistance Commission philosophy and the old Tariff Board philosophy is by its very nature likely to cause businessmen to worry about whether or not they are going to be guilty of an offence under section 45- the restraint of trade section. Businessmen are in a state of uncertainty because they want to obey the law. When they talk to a competitor they are faced with this uncertainty; when their lawyers say to them that they may or may not be obeying the law, because we have no interpretative case law, they are faced with an imponderable problem which inhibits their decision-making process. Problems are created for businessmen when they have to deal with 3 government bodies- the Prices Justification Tribunal, the Industries Assistance Commission and the Trade Practices Commission. All those bodies need to exist, but we must make sure that they co-ordinate their approaches in the national interest. I am pleased to support this legislation. 
I would like to speak briefly about clause 15 of the Bill which seeks to substitute proposed new section 163a, particularly proposed new subsection (3). The general wording covers an application for a declaration in respect of a matter in which the party gave or could have given a notice under sections 92, 93 or 94 of the Trade Practices Act-that is, a notice seeking a clearance. It follows that the general wording equally covers a declaration in application for authorisation matters under sections 88 and 89 of the principal Act. If an applicant is refused a clearance under section 92 he can, under this provision in the Bill before us, apply for a declaration that the refusal of the clearance was unjustified or, alternatively, that on the facts nothing in the section to which the matter refers- that is the restraint of trade section, section 45- prohibits his intended conduct. He has now used the action for declaration to give himself an appeal for which the Act does not provide. 
Similarly, in relation to applications for authorisations, an applicant can make an application for a declaration and also, one assumes, can make an application for a declaration that an authorisation ought to have been granted if it has been refused. It will be interesting to see how this works in practice because in relation to authorisation matters, as I understand it, there is an appeal to the tribunal constituted under the Act whereas in clearance matters that is not so. It will be interesting to see how it works in practice. Again this is a matter to which the review committee might wish to put its mind. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. He is doubtless aware that the Australian Olympic Federation is to decide in the next few weeks on the anthem or song for the Montreal Olympic Games. Is the Prime Minister aware of reports that the Australian Olympic Federation favours  Waltzing Matilda!  Is it also the Prime Minister's choice? If so, is the right honourable gentleman in favour of both the tune and the words? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the  Plum Island Report  concerning the survival of the foot and mouth disease virus in whole milk include a study of the survival of the virus in various varieties of cheese. 
If so, does the virus survive in the processing of (a) Cheddar, (b) mozzarella and (c) camembert cheese. 
-This Government cares. The new family allowances are probably the most far-reaching welfare step taken by any government since Federation. They give proof that the Parties on this side of the House care, that the Government cares, and that each and every honourable member on the Government side of the House is concerned about the people of Australia. I am sick and tired of hearing it being said on the other side of the House that we do not care. I am sick and tired of hearing talk about silver spoons and privilege. We are privileged all right. We are privileged to serve the people of Australia and they recognise our concern". The honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  talked earlier in the debate about the economic package being hot guff. He said that it was for the rich and that we were robbing the poor. He did not mention the family allowances. 
-The honourable member for Melbourne said that. He did not praise the family allowances that every Australian mother will be entitled to receive. I say to all Australians, particularly to social workers and to people in the welfare field, that we really care. This measure, above all else, proves that. We are concerned about people, we are concerned about helping people to help themselves and about helping those unable to help themselves and those really in need. That is our policy; nay, it is not only our policy- it is more deep seated even than that- it is also our philosophy. It is something that is unshakable and at the root of our belief, our concern for people, for every individual Australian. Every Australian must now be convinced that we are a Government and Parties so concerned. I received a letter from a constituent today. I would like to read it because it indicates what people in the electorate are thinking and how they have summed up our measures. It reads: 
I would congratulate the Liberal Party on the social compassion for the less well-off shown in the recent proposals and for the hope they give that inflation may gradually decline. I am sure we nave all got to realise production and work value for payment given is the real key. 
-Hear, hear! I agree with the interjection by my honourable friend. 
It is from a constituent and is unsolicited. It is a letter from somebody who is really concerned and who understands more than the honourable member for Prospect understands. I say that we are more concerned about real welfare than any other Parry in Australia. I say to every trade unionist that we are concerned about them, their families and their jobs. The trade union movement has rightly been concerned that workers on the minimum wage should be better off. The policy concerning family allowances for the family man and woman helps such people. I hope that we will get the recognition that we deserve for it. Our social welfare policy and approach seek to enhance the security, dignity and self-reliance of each individual. 
I would like to refer now to the report of the Henderson Commission of Inquiry into Poverty, which, I remind honourable members, was instituted by a Liberal-Country Party Government in 1 972. We instituted this far-reaching inquiry and we have now acted on parts of it. Let me quote from the section of the report entitled 'Measures to Assist Families'. It reads: 
The most urgent need of poor families is for income support. More money will alleviate the stress on these families, provide greater security, and increase the families' choices in the way they organise their lives. 
On the subject of child endowment the report states: 
We have seen that poverty among 2-parent families is related to family size . . . The- earnings of heads of large families are, in fact, very similar to those of heads of small families. 
The report goes on to say: 
As an immediate measure, therefore, the Commission would concentrate help to families through child endowment and abolish taxation deductions. 
We have acted. In 1972 we instituted an inquiry to report on this matter, and we have acted on this important part of that report in the national interest. Every mother will receive in the post every week a non taxable, means test free, cheque. She has a guaranteed income. She can plan on receiving that money reliably. It is a brilliant measure. It is sensible because no new centralist bureaucratic structure is being set up to administer it. We are using existing expertise and experience. Minimum growth will be required in the Public Service to administer it. It gives assistance to the mother in that it gives her the power and the choice of deciding how to spend the money received. To that extent we are giving her control over her life. My friend, the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean),  rightly pointed out earlier in the debate that this proposal will play a significant part in the recovery because every mother will receive that cheque and she will know on which items she wants to spend it. I am confident that she will spend it and so boost consumer spending and thereby help the economy. 
-I thank the honourable member for that interjection. What I said is true. I know that the honourable member recognises that. The proposal is a boost to the status of women generally; that must be acknowledged. The mother who wants to stay at home can be assisted in staying at home. It will give her this little nest egg every week. Similarly, if the mother wants to work, this assistance will help her if she wishes to pay for child minding or obtain some other assistance. We have recognised the special position and the degree of independence needed to help women in the community. These measures will help 300 000 low income families and their 800 000 children. We have, through this significant measure, channelled assistance where it is most needed- to the poor and to the disadvantaged. 
I tum now to some comments made by the honourable member for Melbourne and, I think, the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  about the Australian Assistance Plan. It is part of our federalism policy that individuals must be free to participate fully in government and that the forms of government must be decentralised to permit maximum response and involvement. Government must be brought as close as possible to the people. That is something that our friends opposite do not quite understand. The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has announced that the Government is agreeable to funding the staffing and administrative costs of the 37 Regional Councils for Social Development which have been funded during the pilot phase of the Australian Assistance Plan for a maximum period of 12 months from 1 July  1976,'  which involves a maximum commitment of $3m for the year 1976-77. During that period funding will also be provided for Australian Assistance Plan projects for which commitments beyond 30 June this year have been entered into, and the estimated commitment in this regard is approximately $2m. 
I point out that the Australian Assistance Plan was a pilot plan. It had 6 months of its 3-year period to run when our Government was elected to office last December. It is part of our federalism policy that Government must be closer to the people. That is in our mind in our announcements on the Australian Assistance Plan, and that will be the result of our actions. We are convinced that that type of activity is one which it is appropriate to administer and fund, if desired, at State and local government level. I think that is very important and it must be remembered by all of us. State governments will be able to make their own decisions as to what they want to do. 
I again refer to the Henderson report on the subject of State governments. It states: 
We therefore welcome the substantial moves in recent years by several States into the provision of more comprehensive family and community welfare services . . . much of the administration of welfare should be carried out by local communities under the leadership of local governments, but the responsibility for ensuring that no one in any locality is neglected is a State responsibility. 
That is what the Henderson Commission said about State governments, and that is a passage of the report which is not often quoted, if it is quoted at all, by our friends opposite. It is recognised that State governments, under our announcement, will need time to work out with local government authorities the form of any future involvement. Our announcement and our program will enable that to be done. I understand that officers of the Department of Social Security during this transition period of one year will be available to assist with the transfer of the Plan to the States. At the end of the period officers of the Department will be willing and able to assist the States in further development of the Plan if it is desired. Similarly, a number of items will be transferred for absorption by the States when the matter is considered by the Government and the States, and the financial agreement reached will take that into account at that time. The measures to which I have spoken this evening prove beyond all reasonable doubt that this Government is concerned about the people of Australia. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Was the maximum daily car parking rate at Tullamarine International Airport increased recently to $4.80 for any 24 hour period; if so, what are the reasons for the increase. 
Is there a heavy demand for car parking at Tullamarine International Airport during peak periods and will he provide statistics showing demand at the car park for each of the last 2 years. 
Are separate financial accounts kept in respect of that car park; if so, will he make them available in respect of each of the last 2 years. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Has any ( a ) financial or ( b ) other assistance under the Australian Assistance Plan been received by (i) Australian Red Cross Society, (ii) Catholic Family Welfare Bureau (Victoria), (iii) Salvation Army, (iv) The Childrens Protection Society (Victoria ) and (v) International Social Service. 
If so, will the Minister provide full details of the assistance provided during the years 1973-74 and 1974-75 and from 1 July 1975 to date. 
-I would like to speak briefly to clause 4 because I feel it offers a great challenge to the Ombudsman who will ultimately be appointed and a challenge to the administration of this Bill when it becomes law, because as the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  said in his second reading speech, this is the first time in a country with a federal system that an ombudsman has been appointed. There are problems with the size of Australia, with the geography of Australia. The last thing we want to do in this Bill is to add to the office of the Ombudsman a touch of Canberra centralism. The office is very much a personal one and we do not want to create the sorts of problems that the ombudsman is trying to solve. Will the ombudsman see every complaint? Will he travel around Australia? In the States of Australia and in New Zealand he can act personally and he can act consistently but in the Commonwealth environment can he see every report? He of course will have to delegate. Will he delegate to each and every State or will he delegate to others to deal with groups of government departments? He will have to be a very clever and astute person- and no doubt he will be- to organise the way in which he delegates because we will not want one set of precedents being created by a delegate in one State that is different from what is happening in another State. There is a great deal of challenge, as I have said, about this, and of course a great deal will depend upon the man who is ultimately appointed to the office. 
-The action of the Opposition in raising this matter of public importance for discussion in this House today is completely and utterly irresponsible. Honourable members opposite are adding to the fear and panic being created by the Left wing unions in Australia. How can they criticise our policy on shipbuilding? It is the policy which they announced in December 1973. That policy which was laid down by them in office provided for a maximum rate of subsidy of 45 per cent to be phased down to 25 per cent by 1980. That subsidy is currently 35 per cent. That policy also provided that shipowners would source their requirements overseas if the overseas price was less than the Australian price after subsidy. It is their policy that we are talking about today. By their action they are attacking themselves. It is an incestuous matter to put before the House because they are attacking their own policy. 
This Government has not just carried out the policy that was in existence; it has done more. There has been a speedy reference to the Industries Assistance Commission- perhaps the speediest reference ever. Action is already under way. The new  Chairman  of the Commission is taking action. We have let tenders for a $40m 6000 ton amphibious heavy lift ship. We have announced that $50m will be spent in building patrol boats in Australian yards for the Australian Navy. Nine patrol boats will be built and there will be an option for a further five. Did the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  refer to patrol boats? No! He was gracious enough to refer to the order for the amphibious heavy lift ship but he tried to drag a red herring across the trail. We have acted to encourage the shipbuilding industry. We have put the bait there for the industry to catch if it is equal to the task. 
Furthermore, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said earlier this year that if the unions could come to some sort of productivity agreement the Government would consider placing orders in Australian yards. Have we heard about such a productivity agreement? No! As the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has said, actual protection of 120 per cent is needed, which means an effective rate of protection of approximately 300 per cent today. The industry is riddled with demarcation disputes, not only between unions but between men in the unions. 
-What a load of old rubbish! The honourable member virtually had to be dragged here today to speak and he did so reluctantly. What an effort he made. I have been to Whyalla. I have been to the yard and have talked to the men there. They have told me that at Whyalla 5 men will sit around and will argue as to which one will weld a bit of pipe. What an utter waste. Demarcation is the name of the game. Demarcation leads to over-manning, leads to too many men on the job, and detracts from productivity. 
There are increasing labour costs in this industry and also in supplying this industry. Ten years ago, Australian steel was the cheapest in the world; today it is the most expensive. That has been caused by the inflation brought about by the previous Labor Government and by the contribution that increased wage demands made to that inflation. That is what the argument is about. The rate of steel erected in medium to large range vessels overseas per man hour is three to four times that of Australian shipyards. The current attitude of the Opposition and unions is akin to that of a drowning man flailing his arms and trying to take everybody in sight underneath the sea with him. It is reminiscent of the attitude of the Tolpuddle martyrs in the industrial revolution when they smashed machinery. 
Let us look at what is happening in the trade union movement today. The unions are banning new ships; they are to strike tomorrow. They cannot even form a single union that was recommended by the Trade Union Congress in 1975. The unions have caused the collapse of talks between management and labour that were to take place tomorrow. As  Mr Butler  of the Newcastle dockyards said in this morning's Press, the shipyard strike could jeopardise everything the industry had been trying to do to improve its position. There is an argument between the communist unions and the right wing unions. There is a report in today's  Australian  that the National President of the Ironworkers Association attacked the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union, describing it as 'arrogant, senseless and separatist '. One can only assume that the left wing unions have called the tune for the Opposition here today and have asked the Opposition to bring forward this matter of public importance for discussion. I wonder whether the Opposition really knows what it is doing in raising this matter. I quote from the House of Representatives  Hansard: 
Our future does not lie in protecting weak industries with higher tariffs but in encouraging industries for which there are continuing markets. 
-It was not Bob Hawke; he is not here yet. Who said that? The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  said that last night in this House. It is recorded at page 499 of  Hansard.  I thought things were bad in the Labor Party. I know that Labor Party members do not know who is leading them. I know they do not know what they are doing, but one would think that today, in bringing forward this matter of public importance, they would have at least paid attention to what their Leader said to them last night. 
As the honourable member quite rightly interjects, they know not what they do. I say to the people of Whyalla and especially to the women of Whyalla and Newcastle that when their husbands come home they should tell them that the Communists are pulling them out to wreck their livelihoods. I say to those women: 'Follow the example of the women in Northern Ireland and go out and march in the streets of Newcastle and Whyalla tomorrow. Go out and do that to demonstrate your disgust at what is happening and also tell the people of Australia that Australians are capable of working'. Let us ask the blokes who rebuilt Darwin. Let us capture the spirit of Darwin and let us stop all this panic button lifeboat attitude of the Opposition. 
This industry provides a case study. There was a unique opportunity for shipbuilders and unionists to get together. It is tragic, sad and regrettable that this has not happened. Today there is a chance, as there has never been before, for labour and management to get together. The formation of a shipbuilding council created an opportunity for that to happen in this industry but it has not happened. It is really tragic. 
The Minister, in his excellent speech, referred to some comments that had been made by the honourable member for Port Adelaide concerning support and subsidy in overseas countries. The honourable member for Port Adelaide and the Premier of South Australia are well known for their acting. I think that we might move the honourable member for Port Adelaide into the oscar class of the Premier of South Australia. We know that the Premier of South Australia fell off an elephant. They are both going to fall off the shipbuilding stage when they talk of overseas subsidies being greater. As the Minister pointed out, in Japan there are no direct subsidies to shipbuilding, in Sweden there are no direct subsidies, and so on. I say to this House and to the people of Australia that tomorrow's national strike is a discredit to the Opposition and to the unionists involved. It really shows what is happening in this country today. What has happened to the  de facto  Leader of the Opposition? He has not spoken.  Mr Hawke  has been very silent today. What is he doing? 
-He is probably busy planning pre-selection in Melbourne Ports. That would be tragic because I have a great respect for the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  If  Mr Hawke  ever got that pre-selection, he would be beaten. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I direct a question to the Foreign Minister which concerns the Torres Strait border with Papua New Guinea. The Minister will remember announcing in June of this year that agreement in principle had been reached with the Papua New Guinea Foreign Minister concerning a new seabed boundary and a protected zone. Have these lines been drawn? What is the position concerning Australian uninhabited islands north of the line? Has Papua New Guinea any international support for its position? What is the state of negotiations between the 2 countries concerning the border generally? 
-I ask the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs a question. I refer to the recent Government announcement concerning ethnic radio. Has the Minister seen the untrue comments on the Government's decision by the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Melbourne? Does the Minister regard comments by these honourable gentlemen such as 'the decision to thrust ethnic radio into the ABC system must be viewed with concern' as an attack on the Australian Broadcasting Commission itself? Are these comments totally without foundation? Does he agree that the Government's decision takes into account the real interests of ethnic communities? 
-The legislation before the House tonight shows the Government's concern for the people of Australia. It shows the Government's particular concern for pensioners and those in the community who are less well off. Before explaining those points, I would like to refer to some statements that the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  made earlier tonight. I believe that some of the statements that he made were completely irresponsible. He said that it does not matter how much Medibank costs. He said that it does not matter how much health care costs. He said that the cost is irrelevant. He said that it can cost $5,000m but that does not matter. He regards it as just a transfer of funds, as just a money game.  His  words are an indictment of the Opposition for its attitude towards this legislation. They are negligent and irresponsible remarks. 
I wish to raise in the House this evening the subject of the centenary of the birth of the author and poet C. J. Dennis. C. J. Dennis- called by some the 'Larrikin Laureate' and perhaps the unofficial Poet Laureate of Australia in his time- captured the folk lore of his time and at the same time created history. Whilst the Australian language changes, I think that in his poem the  Great Australian Slanguage  he captured not only what was applicable then but also what is applicable now. I would like to read it. I reads:  'Tis the everday Australian Has a language of his own, Has a language, or a slanguage, Which can simply stand alone. And ' a dickon pitch to kid us, ' Is a synonym for ' lie ' And to ' nark it ' means to stop it And to ' nit it ' means to fly! 
A week ago on Tuesday in this House the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  put down in argument the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage).  I was sitting here on that day, which was the centenary of Dennis's birth, and I was reminded of a poem called  Uncle Jim  written by C. J. Dennis. I would like to read it because it is very applicable. It reads:  ' I got no time fer wasters, lad, ' 'sez 'e 'Give me a man wiv grit, sez Uncle Jim. 'E bores 'is cute old eyes right into me, While I stares 'ard an ' gives it back to 'im. Then orl at once 'e grips me 'and in 'is: 'Somehow, ' 'e sez, ' I likes yer ugly phiz. ' 
J. Dennis said a lot in an indirect way about things that happened in this Parliament. I referred to  Pilot Cove  and thought of the former honourable member for Grayndler, the man who is sadly missed. I thought of him when he put the finger on the young man who is with us tonight:  'Young friend, "esez . . . Young friend! Well spare me days! 
Yey'd think I WUS 'is own white- ' a-/-/ boy- 
The queer ole finger, wiv 'is gentle ways. ' Young friend, " e SCZ ' I wish 't yeh bofe great joy . ' 
I then thought that that was not quite applicable and I went to another C. J. Dennis poem called 

 The Kid and thought of the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  He might say: 
My son! . . . Them words, just like a blessed song, Is singing' in me 'eart the ole day long; Over an ' over; while I 'm scared 1 11 wake Out of a dream, to find it all a fake. 
Then I thought of years when the Opposition was in Government and I recalled  The  Glugs  of Gosh: 
Now, here is a tale of the Glugs of Gosh, And a wonderful tale I ween, 
Of the Glugs of Gosh and their great King Splosh . . . 
I thought of the Labor Government's actions: 
So the Glugs continued, with greed and glee, 
To buy cheap clothing, and pills, and tea; 
Till every Glug in the land of Gosh 
Owned three clean shirts and a fourth in the wash. 
But they all grew idle, and fond of ease, 
And easy to swindle, and hard to please; 
And the voice of Joi was a lonely voice, 
When he railed at Gosh for its foolish choice. 
Then I was reminded of the loans affair and the overseas borrowing: 
And the King of the Glugs gazed around on his land, And saw nothing but stones strewn on every hand: 
And he said with a desperate look on his face, 'There is nothing so ghastly as stones out of place. And, no doubt, this Og scheme was a very smart dodge. But whom does it profit- my people, or Podge?' 
I thought then of  Emily Ann,  a very appropriate poem for the ears of Government of the Australian Labor Party: 
Government muddled, departments dazed, Fear and confusion wherever he gazed; - Order insulted, authority spurned, 
Dread and distraction wherever he turnedOh, the great King Splosh was a sad, sore king, With never a statesman to straighten the thing. 
Today in the springtime I thought of  A Spring Song  and the announcement by the Leader of the Australian Council of Trade Unions that he was not going to enter Federal Parliament after all. I thought of the poor fellow who said: 
The world 'as got me snouted Jist a treat; Crool Forchin 's dirty left 'as smote me soul; An ' all them joys o ' life I 'eld so sweet Is up the pole. 
Fer, as the Poit sez me 'eart ' as got The pip wiv yearnin ' fer- I dunno wot. 
J. Dennis captured the topics of the time and I thought perhaps he predicted the course of events of the 3 years of Labor Government when in  The Seer he  said: 
Somewhere or other, 'tis doubtful where, 
In the archives of Gosh is a volume rare, 
A precious old classic that nobody reads, 
And nobody asks for, and nobody heeds; 
Which makes it a classic, and famed thro' the land, 
As well-informed persons will quite understand. 
I pay tribute to C. J. Dennis. 
-I ask the Prime Minister a question concerning the report on shipbuilding by the Industries Assistance Commission tabled in this House yesterday. Is this report the final word on the subject or will the Government be taking any other matters into account before making a statement about the future of the industry? I would be particularly interested to know whether the Australian Council of Trade Unions has reacted to the Prime Minister's offer to place 2 orders for Australian National Line ships at Whyalla and Newcastle if certain conditions are met, and whether the Prime Minister considers  Mr Wran's  statements or actions have been helpful in regard to his offer. 
-I ask the Prime Minister a question concerning the shipbuilding industry and its place in manufacturing industry. Has the Prime Minister seen Press reports today that the Australian Council of Trade Unions has an unbeatable plan to save the shipbuilding industry and that the leader of the ACTU is reported as saying that what is happening in Whyalla and Newcastle is indicative of what the Government will be facing in the whole of manufacturing industry? Does the Prime Minister agree with these reports? Is he able to say whether the ACTU has responded to his offer to build 2 Australian National Line ships in Australian yards on certain conditions? 
I rise with pleasure to speak to the estimates of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. At the outset I want to take issue with some statements made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  in this chamber tonight. I regard his comments on the proposed numbers of migrants coming to Australia this year as an insult to the migrant community. It is an attack upon migrants. He stated that 70 000 people were coming to Australia this year and that would add to unemployment. That is total and unadulterated rubbish. The honourable member  fails  to take in account the fact that approximately 40 000 people will leave the country, leaving a net number of 30 000, of which approximately 10 000 will join the work force. Additionally he fails to take note of the fact that those people coming into Australia under the present polley are skilled workers for trades where there are shortages of people in this country, and are being reunited with their families. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is attacking those who are coming to Australia to fill shortages in particular trades and he is, in effect, attacking family reunions. He is saying that when certain members of families want to come to Australia under the policy of the present Government they should be left where they are because members of the Labor Party do not care about them. It is an attack upon the relatives of people in Australia, it is an attack upon our refugee policies, and it is an attack upon migrant children. At the end of his speech the honourable member said that because of human problems we must as a policy provide for the admission of refugees into Australia. I ask honourable members to cast their minds back to the former Government's policies on refugees. I ask them to go back to the fall of Saigon and to remember the despicable policies of the then Government. On Tuesday 22 April 1975 the Labor Government issued guidelines for the admission of refugees into Australia. On Thursday 24 April our Embassy in Saigon closed, on instructions from the Labor Government in Canberra. Let me read some Press comments made at the time. In the Melbourne  Age  a report from Hong Kong under the by-line of Michael Richardson stated: 
I have never felt ashamed of my Government before. But I felt profoundly ashamed of it in Saigon, on Friday. 
This miserable and mean-hearted betrayal was the culmination of 3 weeks of procrastination by responsible authorities in Canberra. 
That was Michael Richardson commenting on the Labor Government in office and its policy on refugees from the Indo-China war. I want to remind the Committee of the former Government's policy on refugees because when members of the Opposition ask questions in the House and raise issues relating to refugees from other areas of the world I am always reminded of the practical policies that they put into effect. Let me read from an editorial on this issue which appeared in the  Canberra Times  on 24 April. The editorial is entitled 'The Pontius Pilate Touch' and in referring to the Labor Government it stated: 
If the Government does not move swiftly to amend the policy stated on Tuesday, its paltry, grudging response to the plight of adult Vietnamese refugees stands to figure as one of the darkest most demeaning and miserable episodes in the history of the Whitlam Administration . . . 
Those are the Press comments of the time on the Labor Government's policy on refugees. Every Asian Australian will be aware of that policy, and I say to members of this Committee and to migrants everywhere that that shows the real concern of the Labor Party for refugees. 
This Government does recognise the special needs of migrant people in Australia. Immediately it came to office it established a separate Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. In addition to the matters before the Committee this evening, there are other important matters referred to in the Budget which concern the migrant community. There are significant measures in the field of education, namely, migrant education and education for migrant children. Similarly, in social security areas there are substantial measures for migrant services throughout the community. But we are not talking about those matters this evening; we are talking about the estimates for the Department itself. In that respect the Government's record is first class and the record of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  is excellent. 
Let us consider the Government's policy and its actions in relation to refugees. It is an enlightened humanitarian policy. In relation to IndoChina, the Minister announced in January of this year that up to about 800 Indo-Chinese refugees would be admitted into Australia. Special attention was paid to Thailand, where refugee camps had been set up and where an Australian mission was sent. Let us consider the East Timor refugees. In May 1976 the Minister announced that approximately 2000 Timorese refugees could apply for resident status in Australia. Let us consider the current tragic situation in Lebanon. The Government has been unable, because of the military operations there, to set up a mission in Lebanon itself but for some time the Royal Netherlands Embassy in Damascus was acting for Australia. We are now receiving applications in Nicosia, and I know from my own experience that a constituent in my electorate today got permission through our office in Ankara in Turkey to bring his father from Lebanon. As to the Government's policies in relation to the Italian earthquake victims, the Minister acted quickly. A migration officer was dispatched from Rome to the disaster area. 
Let us consider some of the other measures the Minister and the Government have taken. The Government announced an amnesty by which people who were illegally settled in Australia did not have to worry any more and could apply to become permanent residents. That is another enlightened policy. The Government has also abolished the re-entry visa system. It is now easier for residents who are not Australian citizens to depart from Australia and return than it was in the days of the Labor Government. The Government's policies and actions reflect concern for the migrant community. We are not 2-faced about our policies, and I believe that the migrant community of Australia and all Australian citizens recognise the real concern that this Government and the Minister and my colleagues on this side of the Chamber have for the Immigration and Ethnic Affairs portfolio. For instance, only today steps were announced for the establishment of an ethnic affairs unityet another policy initiative. To those public servants at the Public Service Board who will be responsible for helping the Minister to set up this unit I say: 'Get it done quickly, boys. Cut through the red tape.' A lot more work needs to be done in this area, and I know the Minister recognises that. I recognise it and I look forward to his new initiatives and actions, in line with the Government's policies. 
May I make brief reference to a most excellent publication prepared by the Community Services Centre in Melbourne under the auspices of the Victorian Hamer Government. An excellent book has been written by  Mrs Bini  Malcolm and  Mrs Kristine  Whorlow entitled  Migrants Melbourne.  This is a major work and has taken some considerable time to prepare. It is being translated into seven or eight foreign languages and will be of interest to people concerned in the field of migrant welfare. The book in fact sets out a framework that could be adopted and followed by other States of Australia. I have taken the liberty of writing to the Minister pointing out the contents of this book, of which I know he is aware. I have asked him whether he could obtain the approval of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  to have funds made available for similar books adopting the framework and guidelines set out in this publication to be published in other areas and cities and communities in Australia where there are large migrant populations. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I seek leave to make a brief statement. 
-This report will add to the research, knowledge and debate on this subject and show the way for action from governments, educators, teachers, and parents in the area of learning, literacy and numeracy. I would not like to see a move away from so-called progressive education. In the word 'progressive' are a lot of things. Some of them, such as the colour method of teaching that confuses teachers and parents, will be rejected. However, this report will show the way for a lot of progressive things to be done. Another area that the report refers to and makes specific representations about is that of education for migrant children and I acknowledge the special interest that the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  takes in this subject. The Committee's comment that it would like to be sure that departments of education make a great effort to recruit teachers, preferably from the relevant ethnic groups who are proficient in minority and migrant languages, who can converse with school children from ethnic minorities in their own language and with understanding of their background, is something that all governments should take into account. 
The third and final area I want to refer to is that of children's television. Whilst this subject is mentioned only in the fringe of the committee's report, it does contribute to the value of the report and is a subject that was studied. There are advantages and disadvantages of children's television as a teacher. The advantages are: The conveying of information earlier than other media; the audio-visual potential to convey all aspects of a subject; and its ability to enlarge the environment of viewers. The disadvantages of television as teacher are: The viewer cannot set his own pace, or request repeats or reviews; the concreteness of the medium inhibits the formulation of abstractions and generalisations; and, television is already established as a fantasy/entertainment medium. I also refer to the report of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board for it is relevant to this subject. These 2 reports need to be read together in considering children's television as a learning medium. 

 Mr CADMAN (Mitchell)-I seek leave to make a short statement in order to make a small correction to comments that have been made. 
Motion (by  Mr MacKellar)-  by leaveproposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Innes)  adjourned. 
-In our discussion of the estimates for the Department of Science, I wish to talk about the satellite program that is envisaged. The Government has indicated its support to Japan for a Japanese geostationary meteorological satellite which will be launched in 1977. This represents a significant harnessing of scientific development for man's good. Australia is taking part in an international atmospheric research program. It will be linked directly to the first global experiment of the Global Atmospheric Research Program called GARP This is a very important and significant scientific development. As I have said, we are harnessing science for man's good. We are taking advantage of new ways to solve problems in the world. The Space Projects Branch of the Department of Science has received an allocation for a control station which will be located in the Australian Capital Territory. It will be one of 3 control stations that keep this geostat satellite in the atmosphere. A receiving station will be built in Melbourne at the Bureau of Meteorology to receive this information. It will be important information for the tracking of cyclones- finding out where they are coming from and when they may form. We will be taking advantage of information made available as part of the information explosion in the world today. 
The major powers have international satellites whizzing around the world. Doubtless, there are spy satellites. Others may know more about us in Australia than we know about ourselves. We have to think about this seriously. This meteorological program is a first step. It shows that satellite information can be used for the acquisition of knowledge for the good of man. Satellite information, as part of the information explosion, can be used in other areas apart from weather. It can be used to search for resources, to gain knowledge of resources and to gain information about crops -one's own crops and the crops of others. I suppose that it is perfectly feasible, with all the satellite information in the world, for someone to sit down and analyse what is happening in relation to the world wheat harvests and to predict whether there will be feast or famine, to predict what will happen to prices and to take action. These are the sorts of things that can be used for good. These matters are very important when we consider that there has been an explosion in relation to the knowledge of the world environment. There is more awareness of the world environment today. The satellite program is important in increasing that knowledge. 
As I have said, this particular satellite can and will be used for weather forecasting. But there are other developments in which I hope Australia will participate in the satellite area. I personally hope that Australia can participate in what is known as the Landsat program. The Landsat program is a satellite program of NASA- the National Aeronautics and Space Administration- in which foreign countries have been invited to participate. I think that 2 satellites have been launched already under the program and another is planned to be launched. They continually scan the earth and provide data on the resources and the environment. Information provided from the photographs taken can, in fact, provide resource evaluation and management information to enable disaster assessment, and perhaps mitigation to take place, and the production of maps. Other fields that can benefit from the technology of the NASA Landsat program are agriculture, which I have mentioned already, geology, hydrology and general land use. 
The Commonwealth Government has taken advice from every State government in Australia on the Landsat program. There is very great interest in it throughout the land both from an agricultural sense and a general planning sense. The Australian Science and Technology Council which the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  referred to a few moments ago is currently looking at this information and preparing a report for the Government. It is my hope that that report will be favourable and that then the Government can act. I see both this meteorological satellite program and the Landsat satellite program as just the start of where we are going in the use of satellite information. For defence purposes we must know at least as much about ourselves as others do. Perhaps we need to know as much about some others as they know themselves. At least, we need to know as much about others as third parties know about them. Knowledge gained from satellites has an important defence significance and can influence foreign policy. The implications of this information explosion are enormous. In fact, they can be quite frightening, it is my hope that the Government's White Paper on defence will in part refer to the place satellites and satellite information have in the defence of this country. 
In the time remaining to me I would like to refer to another aspect of the Department of Science, namely, the Antarctic, because the Department of Science has general responsibility in this area. With the Law of the Sea Conference continuing and with the possibility of a 200-mile economic zone, this has significance not only for the territorial continent of Australia but also for the territories in the Antarctic. There are many resources there. I do not wish to talk about the mineral resources but I shall briefly mention some of the marine resources, particularly a marine organism which is an important source of protein called 'krill'. I understand that currently the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and Japan have developed techniques for harvesting and processing this product commercially. In fact krill paste can be bought in Moscow at the present time. With the potential of the economic zone and with the Law of the Sea Conference influencing European fishing nations, it is pushing some of those nations towards the Antarctic and towards our territories there. This raises a question that we will have to face in the future. I understand, and I trust I am correct, that in fact the British and Norwegians are fishing for krill in the Antarctic at the present time. The USSR certainly has large fishing fleets there. 
I think it is interesting to look at what is happening in the Antarctic. It is not generally recognised that the Russians have 4 bases there, three of which are recognised as being on Australian Antarctic territory. Those bases are Mirnyy, Vostok and Molodezhnaya. It is also interesting to note that those bases on our territory are in fact supplied by the Soviet Union by way of Africa. I understand that initially the planes, that the Soviet Union used- it has planes regularly coming and going from the area- would have flown through South Africa but probably today they fly through Mozambique. I think that in this country we should be well aware of the co-operation that is taking place in the Antarctic. We should also consider what our posture must be in relation to the exploitation of all resources there, both marine and mineral. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-There should not be the confrontation that there is in the House today. There should be a spirit of cooperation and consensus. The Opposition should act responsibly and accept the Government's attitude of responsibility by putting a sensible proposal to the Government and to the people. Today we have not heard one thing about what the Opposition might do to save the shipbuilding industry. What a joke it is that the Opposition has raised as a matter of public importance: 
The failure of the Government to commit itself to the retention of an Australian shipbuilding industry. 
The Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has shown by his speech that the previous Government's policy brought the shipbuilding industry to the state that it is in today. What we should be doing, in co-operation with the Opposition, is discussing this matter in a responsible way. Instead the Opposition is looking for scapegoats and for votes and is throwing fuel on the fire. The Opposition should be encouraging the trade union movement, management and government to co-operate so that we can solve a national problem. There is a problem. Let us face it together instead of the Opposition muckraking for the sake of votes. What a pathetic effort it was from the Opposition today. What a pathetic team of speakers it was. Were the 3 speakers for the Opposition the best that could be mustered? If they were, I would hate to see the three worst. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  said that we on this side of the House were not concerned. We have never been more concerned. We referred the matter to the Industries Assistance Commission on 1 8 August and on 20 September there was a reply. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  then made his offer to the union movement. The offer has been denigrated and knocked because it is said that wage earners should not accept a no-wage increase proposal. I say we should listen to the words of the Minister for Transport. He talked about the apple growers in the Franklin and Calare electorates. He talked about the dairy farmers who are working and going broke on the farms because they have a spirit about this country. They feel for this country. I say to the blokes at Newcastle and Whyalla, and to the ladies at Whyalla: 'This is your country as much as it is the country of the apple growers. Get your shoulder to the wheel and your nose to the grindstone and let us work our way out of the problem. Let us meet the Government's offer. Let us go forward together, but do not come here and denigrate and criticise and be anti-constructive. ' Let me say what I believe the Australian Labor Party would have done if it had been in government. Its supporters today said that the shipbuilding industry would have been saved if it were in government but they put no proposal before the House. 
-They do not have one, that is very true. Let me read from the speech made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  in this House on 24 August. He said: 
We have to decide now what industries are worth keeping- which ones are likely to be strong and productive in the years ahead. We have to identify the industries which offer most scope for employing our people and we have to build them up selectively with Government help. 
-That was the Leader of the Opposition. I say to the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  and to the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  whom I welcome into the chamber at this late stage of the debate - 

 - His conscience must have pricked him, as the honourable member for Evans has said. I am sorry that we did not hear from the honourable member for Newcastle today. He might have had something to say. I say to the honourable member for Grey: 'Take that message from the Leader of the Opposition back to the people of Whyalla.' That is what the honourable member's Party would have done. The Labor Party would have wiped out the shipbuilding industry as, in fact, its proposals did on 18 December 1973 when the then Minister for Secondary Industry,  Mr Enderby,  made a statement about new assistance arrangements for the industry.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to table this statement of 18 December 1973, made by  Mr Enderby. 
I rise to speak to this- I think it is fair to say- complicated, technical amendment to the Income Tax Assessment Act. The amendment is before the House because section 6(1) of the Income Tax Assessment Act defines royalty by a strange system of cross references to the United Kingdom double tax agreement. In a case in the Victorian Supreme Court,  Sherritt Gordon Mines Ltd  v.  Federal Commissioner of Taxation,  Mr Justice  McInerney held that the definition applies only to payments falling within the operation of that agreement. The purpose of this Bill is to put beyond doubt the fact that the definition applies to royalties passing to all countries, apparently in the way intended by the legislators of the amendment in 1968. It is sensible to amend the definition to include royalties passing to countries with whom Australia has double tax agreements along the lines of the United Kingdom agreement, since these agreements contain rules dealing with such royalties. In the case of Canada and the United States agreements, however, there are no special provisions for royalties, except a very limited class of royalties in the Canadian agreement under Article IX. Royalties are left to be dealt with under general rules which include the Canadian Agreement Article XIII (1), a rule which Canada will allow, as a credit against Canadian tax, Australian tax paid on income from sources within Australia. 
The effect of the amendment to the definition is to bring within the operation of the source rules, prescribed by section 6c of the Act, payments which are not royalties as previously understood and which do not have a source within Australia according to ordinary principles. At first blush on reading this Bill the result might appear to be to remove these Canadian and United States royalties from all protection under the Canadian and United States Double Tax Agreements. But I understand that this is not, in fact, so. I understand, from a communication with the Acting Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson),  that the question of royalties has been raised in negotiations on double tax agreements with those countries. Negotiators for each of those other countries have not only accepted Australia's right to make the 1968 royalty amendments but also have stated without qualification that they were satisfied that the amendments were effective for their intended purpose in relation to the imposition of tax by Australia 
Government supporters- Hear, hear! 
-I am glad to have the attention of the House in this very important tax matter. It was interesting that a quorum was called before I rose to speak. I think the reason must have been that no Australian Labor Party member was here to speak in this debate. Perhaps the Opposition does not understand the legislation. Representatives of Canada and the United States, I understand, have made no criticism of our adoption of those statutory source rules. I believe- I would be glad of the Minister's confirmationthat they have indicated that it could be expected that credit would be allowed for the Australian tax against Canadian and United States tax payable on the royalties. The last technical matter I raise with the Minister- I do not know whether he is able to give me an answer- is in relation to my understanding that this legislation is, in fact, retrospective. As a general principle, one does not like retrospective legislation but there are occasions when there is need for it. I am hopeful that when the Government increases nursing home benefits, as the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  indicated in his answer to the House the other day, perhaps those amendments might be made retrospective. 
I hear some 'hear, hears' from the honourable member for Perth on that issue. This amending legislation to the Income Tax Laws Amendment (Royalty) Act in fact exempts from retrospectivity, as I understand it, taxpayers whose assessments have been issued before the date of the announcement of the clarifying legislation and who have thereby acquired rights of objection and appeal. I wonder whether there are any. I do not know whether there are any people who have not had assessments issued and who might stand to suffer as a result. I am pleased to support the legislation. 
-I wish to ask a question of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications concerning children's television. The question is in part supplementary to that asked by the honourable member for Isaacs. Does the Green report refer to the declining standards of children's television in Australia and does it make any recommendations in respect thereof? 
-A tragedy is being enacted daily on Australian television. I refer to the standard of children's television. The Austraiian Broadcasting Control Board states that the decline in the use by stations of kindergarten material is regrettable. The House of Representatives Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties stated that there is a need to improve the overall quality of recreational and educational programs on television for children and that 'there is evidence that television if used constructively can be beneficial in helping and motivating more people to read and can also be used in community education programs'. I personally believe that television is a distraction for children and, as such, can inhibit children in becoming literate. The habit of reading children a bedtime story regrettably is declining. Television is taking its place and therefore must play a role equally important to that of the bedtime story. Morning and night, all television stations show unsuitable programs when children are viewing. I see little value in programs such as  The Flintstones  and /  Dream of Jeannie 
There is also a trend amongst young children to watch television early in the morning. At the invitation of my young son recently I watched a program called  Thunderbird  which was preceded by a horrible, ghoulish movie. I suggest that probably many parents do not know that their children are creeping out to watch television early in the morning. Some people say that the responsibility is on parents to control their children; but, whilst parents do have a role, the Government has a responsibility to ensure that proper standards are maintained. I was pleased that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  yesterday, in answer to a question from me, said that the Green report on broadcasting was concerned mainly with the structure of broadcasting and that the question of standards would follow. Many people are concerned that the Green report will mean a lowering of standards. I am sure that this will not be so. I can assure the House that I for one want to see an improvement in and a raising of standards, and I know of others who want the same. I spoke to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, who has just left the House, about this subject and he assured me that the Green report would not bring about a decline in the standard of children's programs on television in Australia. I can assure those who are interested that the existing standards will be maintained and, hopefully, will be enforced and, even more importantly, that there will be a tightening of the standards. 
I have also discussed with the Minister the question of children's television generally. I understand that a number of submissions were made to the Green Committee on this subject. Whilst the Green report does not refer to them, apparently because this subject was not within the realm of that report, these submissions are valuable. I have taken up with the Minister the question whether these can be made available and so add to the general debate on children's television in Australia. I am hopeful that he will make these available in some way. I have had a very favourable response from him. There are many people who are concerned about the standard of children's television. The Standing Commission on Television of the Victorian Council for Children's Films and Television has been active and is seeking on all channels a time between 4 p.m. and 6 p.m. when only appropriate children's programs will be shown.  Mrs Guest,  as  president  of that organisation has been prominent in putting forward these views. This idea must be considered seriously. However, I do not believe that advertisements should be banned at such times. I believe that advertisements can motivate and inform and that commercial stations and advertisers can respond to the challenge in this area and help to create a better society. 
-I understand that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs met some State Munsters and Attorneys-General last week and discussed his proposed co-operative scheme in the field of companies and securities legislation. Can the Minister report to the House on these discussions? Is he able to tell the House when the scheme might be implemented? 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence I bring up the Committee's report on the Torres Strait Boundary. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-I seek leave to make a short statement on the report. 
-I rise with great pleasure to speak on the report entitled Learning Difficulties in Children and Adults', which is the report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties. May I say at the outset that I think the report reflects the bipartisan approach of Opposition members and Government supporters. It was a great pleasure to work on that Committee with people such as the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes),  who has just spoken. However, I did find myself disagreeing with some of the things that he said tonight. I do not refer to the things that he said about the report, but I think he was completely unfair, with great respect to the honourable member, in indicating that this Government denied people the right to read. I think that to use those terms is completely unforgivable. To be fair, he quoted only one case and the report was tabled m this place only in October. I agree with the honourable member for Melbourne, that it is a most humane and compassionate report. It contains a number of recommendations upon which governments, both State and Federal, have to act. I suggest that I have as much interest in getting things done as does the honourable member for Melbourne. 
-I thank the honourable member for Moore for bis interjection. We on this side of the House say that there is important work to be done. But let us give the Government a go and let it get programs into action. I can say to the honourable member for Melbourne that I for one on this side of the House will be using the influence that I have to see that things are done as a result of this report. 
-If I might say so, I think the honourable member who interjected has his eyes closed. I think that this report adds to the state of knowledge on the problems of literacy and numeracy in Australia. The Committee collected evidence and made its inquiry all over Australia. It has done good work. It commissioned the Australian Council of Educational Research survey to which the honourable member for Melbourne referred. I shall refer to certain of the results of that survey, firstly, those concerning reading. I shall quote from the report as it relates to the school room. Paragraph 2.32 states: 
In terms relevant to the schoolroom, the survey indicates that one child per classroom in 10 year olds is virtually unable to read and one child in every three or four classrooms of 14 year olds is still unable to read in any independent manner. 
That is quite frightening. With regard to numbers paragraph 2.37 states: 
The most disturbing finding was that 4 per cent of 14 year olds did not substract 9 from 17 correctly, 4 per cent did not multiply 7 by 6 correctly and 8 per cent did not divide 56 by 7 correctly. 
With regard to learning problems the survey reported: 
Fifteen to 20 per cent of students in normal schooling were seen by their teachers at both 10 and 14 year old levels to be in need of remedial instruction in reading and number. 
This information was supplied from a teacher questionnaire in the report. All the information in the report is quite frightening. I think that the community at large as well as educatorsparents, school teachers and the total communityneeds to study and debate this report. I might comment on the word 'dyslexic' because it was raised by the honourable member for Melbourne. I do not know whether he would agree, but I started my work on the report thinking that dyslexia was the real problem. I came away with the conclusion that the word 'dyslexia' did not mean anything. In fact, it is a word that is likely to mislead if it is used in this area. There are problems of learning difficulties, but if the word dyslexia' is used to describe a supposed medical problem or supposed learning problem, that is dangerous in itself because it will lead parents and teachers to think that a particular child is dyslexic, and, therefore, something is different about that child, whereas the child may merely have one of the many criteria of learning difficulties that we discovered. 
For instance, migrant children have problems, as do non-migrant children. But I think that the problems of migrant children are perhaps more magnified than the problems of many Australian children because when children of migrant families go home at night, they probably converse in the native tongue of their parents. That is a right and proper thing to do but it means that they do not practise the language that they learn at school. Perhaps their parents are unable to help them with their homework and are also unable to read them a bedtime story. I am old-fashioned enough to believe that this is fairly important in the process of teaching children to read. 
-I thank the honourable gentleman for that compliment; I might reciprocate. I think there is perhaps a shyness involved as well with members ofthe migrant community. 
In relation to migrant children, the Committee recommended: 
The Committee would like to be sure that departments of education make great efforts to recruit teachers, preferably from the relevant ethnic groups, who were proficient in minority and migrant languages, who could converse with schoolchildren from ethnic minorities in their own languages and with understanding of their backgrounds. 
The Committee drew the analogy of customers of banks who can talk with tellers and interpreters in Greek, Italian and Yugoslav at many banks because these languages are spoken by bank officers. 
I recommend to the Government that more courses should be established to re-train migrant teachers in Australia. There are many migrants in this country who are, in fact, trained teachers in their countries of origin and who come here and take up other vocations. I have found from my own experience that it is better to re-train these people in Australia rather than to go overseas and specifically recruit teachers. In my electorate, at the State College of Victoria in Toorak known as Stonnington College, there is a course for re-training migrant teachers. It is a special bridging course to train migrants with overseas qualifications in Victoria. One of the upsetting aspects of even that course is that it only re-trains teachers by giving them a conversion course in the English language for 6 months and then a 12-month education period of study. The course qualifies them to be primary teachers only. I think there is a great deal more to be done in this area. I commend the work of this particular State college to the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  and to the Government. 
I have referred to the problems of migrant children and migrant education by way of teacher training. I now turn to the problems of migrant adults because they have perhaps more problems than many other people. I suggest that migrant adults, like all adults, need to read and write for some of the most basic forms of employment in society today. To drive a truck one needs to be able to read a street sign and a street directory. I think that we must all ensure that there are more courses and that migrants are motivated and encouraged to train and teach themselves to learn to read and write and understand English. 
The problems of all adults are quite severe. The Committee visited a course at Footscray Technical College. To me this was quite a remarkable experience because I saw there adults who could not read or write, learning for the first time. I think that more needs to be done in this area also. I remember one man who told me that he had worked in a store and that he had got on very well until metrication was introduced. Before metrication his mates helped him with the invoices and the paper work; but metrication completely beat him. I found that rather sad. Fortunately he found this course. 
Another man on that course said to me: 'I have been waiting 20 years for this course. I cannot read or write. I am a paper hanger and painter and I have my own business'. I said to him: 'How did you do that? How did you give a quote?' He said: 'I just walked into a room and made it up in my head'. I think there are perhaps more people than we realise in this situation in society. There was another man from an Italian family who had not learned to read and write and who was being restrained. All parliamentarians in all parliaments in Australia, who have responsibility for education, should look at this report and at the work that needs to be done as a result of it. In conclusion, I trust that this report precipitates a debate amongst educators and teachers. With regard to teachers, the report states: 
The classroom teacher is the person to be encouraged. In fact many more problems can be solved in the classroom than we think. The classroom teacher admittedly needs to have support by way of remedial teachers and other aids. But more and more problems can be solved in the classroom. 
To do that we need to change the syllabus of existing teachers' colleges all over Australia and we need to make sure that existing teachers in the teaching work force are retrained so that they can better understand the nature of the problems mentioned in this report. The concludes all that I wish to say on the report. 
I crave your indulgence,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  for one minute to refer to the imminent retirement of the  Clerk  of the House,  Mr Norman  Parkes. In the year that I have been here as one of the 1975 crop of new members,  Mr Parkes  has been of personal help to me and I know to others. He has a wry smile and a charming wit. I am reminded of one occasion when I was sitting next to  Mr Parkes  at lunch. I thought I would perhaps be impertinent enought to ask him how we were getting on. 
-He did not give me a backhander. I will tell the honourable member what he said. He said: 'You are a pretty good lot but perhaps in your direction the honourable members for La Trobe and Higgins do interject a little more than they ought '. 
-The honourable member for La Trobe says that he has been misrepresented. I think perhaps it might have been fair comment. It was greatly appreciated. I feel a personal link somewhat with  Mr Parkes.  Whilst his father was the  Clerk  in this place before him, his son was wise enough to venture south to the electorate of Higgins. Perhaps in his retirement we might see  Mr Parkes  on the streets of Armadale when he visits his son and his family. 
-The honourable member for La Trobe interrupts and asks whether it is Spanner' Parkes. In fact it is Graham Parkes, the son of  Mr Norman  Parkes. 
-Yes. We look forward to seeing  Mr Norman  Parkes in Melbourne. 
-At the outset I congratulate the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  for his approach to this legislation. I am terribly disappointed to hear the whingeing comments of the honourable members for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  and Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  that they do not have the opportunity to debate this issue properly because further amendments are not before the House. The Minister has been most responsible. He has encouraged debate, public interest and public submissions in this legislation. I would have thought that rather than being criticised the Minister ought to be congratulated for his approach. More thought should be given to legislation in this House. I would have thought honourable members opposite would agree with that. 
One of the provisions in this Bill for the first time brings within the ambit of the trade practices legislation some of the restrictive practices of employees and trade unionists. Businesses will have redress against employees' secondary boycotts similar to the redress they already have against boycotts by other companies. I applaud this move. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs in his second reading speech said the Government is giving consideration to keeping this in the Bill when it becomes an Act. I support that stand. The people of Australia will applaud this move to have restrictive practices of unions come within the Trade Practices Act. I support it, as I do the proposal by the Government to institute and establish an industrial relations bureau. I believe that Australians are sick and tired of the restrictive practices of trade unions. I believe in trade unions and support their behaviour if it is responsible. 
I ask the honourable member to listen. I will quote to him a leading socialist, the editor of the  New Statesman  magazine in Britain. He pointed out, not me, that the union was an economic function of the capitalist system. I support that. It is true that unions grew up within the capitalist system, admittedly and properly, to counter abuses in the capitalist system as a defence mechanism, but they have gone far too far. I direct the attention of the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  to some of Paul Johnson's comments on unionism. He said: 
The unions have refused to recognise the limits of their historical role. 
What has happened is that unions have entered the field of endeavour for which parliamentarians should properly be responsible. They have gone beyond the cause of their existence. For the honourable member for Port Adelaide to say that the Government will confront the unions and that we are on a collision course and for the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions to say last week that he would refer such matters as the measures in this Bill and the measures concerning the industrial relations bureau to the International Labour Organisation is a load of rubbish. I agree, as I imagine everybody else in this House agrees, with article 23 of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Everyone has the right to work, to free choice of employment, to just and favourable conditions of work and to protection against unemployment. Everyone has the right to form and to join trade unions for the protection of his interests. I support that. To say that this legislation is offensive to International Labour Organisation rules and conditions is mere humbug. 
I am absolutely sure that I will be accused of union bashing. When honourable members on the Government side tell the truth about the excesses of the trade unionism they are accused of union bashing. When  Sir John  Egerton and  Senator Harradine  speak they are called scabs. Let us look at the truth of the matter. In relation to introducing secret ballots for the election of union officials,  Sir John  Egerton says that it is no good having a secret ballot because  Mr 
Halfpenny, on the one hand, makes sure that all union officials on his committees are his friends and they make sure that the shop stewards and people on the shop floor are his friends also. The people of Australia can listen to what  Sir John  Egerton says because they know what he says is true and they respect him for that. 
Let us look at what the people of Australia think about the excesses of union activities. In January 1977 an  Age  poll showed that 65 per cent of voters thought trade unions should not involve themselves in issues other than members' wages and conditions. A gallup poll in December 1976 showed that 80 per cent of Australians thought unions should not be entitled to strike or impose bans on political and social issues as distinct from industrial issues. That is what the gallup poll found that time and that is what the people think. For honourable members opposite to say that the people do not want the trade practices of the unions to be under control shows that they are the prisoners of the trade union movement- I will tell the House about that shortly. 
The rule of law in this country has to be paramount. All of us are subject to the rules of law except the trade union movement. If I speed in my car on the way home I am subject to arrest and prosecution for speeding. In the area of industrial law- the honourable member for Burke knows this as well as anybody else- there has been anarchy because there are no sanctions that are enforced. I admit that the abuses of the private enterprise system have to be curtailed. The abuses can be on the one hand the abuses of management, of corporations and of industry, but society has to be protected against the abuses, on the other hand, of monopoly power as carried on by trade unions. It is our job in this Parliament to protect the public interest, to maintain that fine balance. That is what this legislation sets out to do. The rule of law must be paramount. Domination by either capital or labour cannot be permitted. In this legislation the Parliament is starting to protect the public interest. I was interested in what the honourable member for Port Adelaide said. He said the whole purpose of the Act was to protect the Australian consumer. All people are consumers whether they belong to trade unions or not. Members of the Australian public, as they are consumers, are sick and tired of being attacked by the excesses of the trade union movement. The arbitration system is under threat in this country because wage demands enforced by the strike weapon have fuelled the fires of inflation. 
-I tell the honourable member for Burke and others, if they can be bothered listening to the truth, that the rapacious wage demands, admittedly aided and abetted by the perhaps iniquitous tax scale that the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has promised to do something about when economic circumstances permit, have in fact fuelled the fires of inflation. I received criticism on this a second ago. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  has admitted: 
Excessive union wage demands have caused Australia's unemployment and inflation crisis. 
This Act must protect the consumer against the unlawful activities of business and the unlawful activities of unions. I have no doubt that excesses of union power have caused much of the current inflation. As Paul Johnson, the socialist author, points out, each union becomes an opponent of the other. As one union sees another union's wage demands acceded to it makes claims and they further fuel the fire. I say to the honourable member for Burke- I ask him to agree with the truth of this- that, in Australia today, many employees are more in bondage than was the serf of mediaeval times because they are the prisoners of the union movement. They are the prisoners of the union officials. All those people who were tested in the gallup poll I mentioned would reflect the views of consumers who are also unionists. They are sick and tired of this bondage. They all do not want to go on strike every time they are asked. They all did not want to strike over the Medibank issue last year. Johnson also points out that the trade union movement is the enemy of the old, the sick and the physically handicapped- those least able to look after themselves. I remind honourable members opposite of that fact. 
I would like to cite the renowned jurist Roscoe Pound, a former Dean of Harvard University. In his book  Legal Immunities of Labour Unions he  says: 
Immunities, relieving particular persons or special classes or groups from the duties and liabilities appointed by law for their fellow men, have been regarded from of old as odious. 
He points out: 
The substantially general privileges and immunities of labor unions and their members and officials to commit wrongs to person and property, to interfere with the use of highways, to break contracts, to deprive individuals of the means of earning a livelihood, to control the activities of the individual workers and their local organisations by national organisations centrally and arbitrarily administered beyond the reach of state laws, and to misuse trust funds-things which no one else can do with impunity. 
At this time I also cite a summary of the work of the economist Emerson Schmidt which is in these terms: 
Labor unions have created special problems in the government sector. Here the union officials sit, in effect, on both sides of the bargaining table. In many cases they elect, or play a dominant role in electing, top officials in the executive branch-federal, state, and local-as well as in the legislative branch, who then support them in their demands on the public purse. 
That comment applies to the United States of America, but the direct analogy applies in this country to the Australian Labor Party which is a prisoner and creature of the trade union movement and which can never get away from it. Occasionally when in government Labor tried, but the union movement put pressures on the leadership and it buckled. What happens here is that they sit on both sides of the fence. 
At the weekend the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  adequately dealt with  Mr Hawke's  complete conflict of interests as  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions on the one hand and Federal  President  of the Australian Labor Party on the other. There is a conspiracy between the Labor Party and the trade union movement and they can never break away from that. Another eminent economist, Gottfried Harberler, in his book  Economic Growth and Stability  makes some interesting comments which are most relevant to this legislation. He says: 
To begin with, labor unions have acquired over the years,  de jure  or  de facto,  numerous important immunities and privileges which go far beyond anything accorded to business or other private associations. ... If unions and their leaders were held financially responsible for damages caused by breach of contracts, illegal strikes, intimidation and violence, considerable moderation in wage bargains could be expected. 
This measure is a step towards bringing the excesses of the monopoly of union power under control. I believe that it in itself will help to control inflation because it will lead to moderation in wage demands. I believe that the union structure must properly reflect the wishes of employees rather than the wishes of the bureaucrats in the trade union movement and the union leaders. It must be in touch with what the people on the shop floor want. Today the people on the shop floor know that the trade union movement wields too much economic power. They know that it must be subject to the public interest. 
Here in this legislation for the first time we are making the restrictive trade practices of the union movement subject to the same rules of law as those to which industry and business are subject. Why should the excesses of unionism not be subject to the rule of law and the public interest? 
Why should they be exempt? This Government is tackling the issue. We have been threatened by the leader of the ACTU and by honourable members opposite that we will be reported to the International Labour Organisation and that there will be a direct confrontation. Any confrontation will be the work of those union officials who want to bring down the private enterprise system, because they must know as all Australians recognise that the vast majority of people in this country want responsible trade unions of course, but that the excesses of unionism must be rejected. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
-Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I had shown how excessive monopoly behaviour of trade unions, like the excesses of monopoly power of the private sector of capital and business, must be subject to the trade practices legislation. Employees boycotts, outlawed in this Bill, have added to the costs in the private sector. They have been inflationary. I welcome the step taken in this legislation. It is proper. It establishes the rule of law. It protects the public interest and it attacks inflation. It protects consumers. Any confrontation by the union movement in respect of this or any other legislation will be of its doing and contrary to the wishes of the vast majority of Australians. 
I would like to turn to section 49 of the Actthe price discrimination section- which this legislation proposes to repeal. I was unimpressed by the arguments of the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  who spoke for a long time but who- I say with great respectsaid very little. He did admit that to some extent predatory prices were covered elsewhere in the legislation. I believe that the effect of section 49 in the existing Act has been inflationary. It has kept prices up because once a manufacturer had sold to one customer and another customer came along and wanted to buy at a lower price he was unable to do so because of the provisions of this legislation. I accept that people have made submissions to the Government. One does not want to be dogmatic in this area. I suggest that the Minister should look at these submissions and then let us see whether other sections of the Act can be accommodated to meet the perhaps legitimate objections and aspirations of those who are affected. 
The price discrimination provisions were put into this Act as a result of the Murphy legislation. I believe that this was done without any examination of its effects on the Australian economy. I believe the trade practices legislation has to reflect the nature and structure of the Australian economy and the repeal of section 49 has to be looked at in that light. We have to remember that we still have section 45 concerning contract arrangements or understandings affecting competition. We still have the monopolisation provisions and we have the exclusive dealing provisions. Listening to Opposition supporters speaking one would think that we seek to repeal the whole of the Act. What the Minister has done here has been to invite inquiry, debate, submissions, further debate here tonight, and further consideration of submissions after the debate. We will get trade practices legislation that hopefully reflects the state of the economy and the aspirations of consumers, and at the same time protects the public interest. 
I would like to talk about the merger provisions because they were attacked by the honourable member for Grayndler in his speech tonight but I do not think enough study has been done on these. I believe that they have to be looked at in the light of the Australian economy. If one accepts what the honourable member for Grayndler said one assumes that increased competition in fact encourages lower prices. I am not sure that that is true. I believe that the policies of the Industries Assistance Commission in the past have in fact been to encourage concentration in industry to stop fragmentation so that the costs to the Australian consumer and the Australian economy can be lowered by long production runs. 
-The Opposition's resolution today which claims to attack the Government's incompetent handling of the Lebanese refugee problem has been, in colloquial terms, a fizzer. The speech of the Opposition spokesman on immigration and ethnic affairs, the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes),  was what I would describe, again in colloquial terms, as a lead balloon. He said nothing to prove his allegations of the Government's incompetence. In fact, I suggest that by innuendo he accepts that the Government and the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  have done a very fine job indeed. The Minister has visited Cyprus and I believe that he has shown in his speech today a genuine concern for the problems of the Lebanese people who are there. The honourable member for Melbourne has been completely irresponsible in what he has said today. He is trying to play politics with a tragic situation in which people have been displaced from their country by war. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  attacked as a war criminal an honourable member of this House who has served his country and fought under the Australian flag. To my mind that is despicable. But that is typical of the Opposition. It has attacked the Government and told us nothing. I believe that the honourable member for Melbourne has, in fact, insulted the Lebanese community in Australia. He attacked the Minister for letting families in. To my mind, he is attacking the concept of the family. He is attacking the reunion in Australia of people who are bereft and who have suffered. The honourable member for Melbourne has been completely irresponsible in trying to blame the Minister for the flood of refugees into Cyprus. 
Of course it is a tragic situation, of course it is a sad situation, and of course the Government is rightly concerned about it, but to try to attack this Government for the situation itself will get us nowhere. Honourable members on both sides of the House accept that there is a tragic situation in the Lebanon but the honourable member for Melbourne is trying to blame the Government for the war and the tragedy itself. That was the thrust of his speech. He did not prove any incompetence on the part of the Government. Then he did something that I had not seen in my brief time in this House. I suppose it is something that people do when they have nothing else to say. He attacked people who are unable to defend themselves when he referred to the Minister's advisers who are sitting in this House today. Government supporters do not mind being attacked because we will tell the people of Australia how incompetent the Opposition is in trying to be  Her  Majesty's Opposition. It fails every time and it failed again today. To attack those responsible public servants who are incapable of defending themselves is something which does not appeal to me. The honourable member for Melbourne also said: 'Well, the officers in Cyprus have done a great job'. He was prepared to say that they deserved high recognition and, of course, they do. The Minister has recognised that. Then the honourable member said: 'Some of them were refusing people because they were too fat or too thin or needed a wash behind the ears'. That was the accusation that he made against responsible officials today in this House. The facts prove the 
Government's competent handling of this matter. 
Let us look quickly at the history of the matter because the history shows the concern of the Government. In February 1976 it was announced by the Government that visitors from the Lebanon in Australia who did not want to return home because of the civil dispute there could apply to extend their stay in Australia. In April 1976 the Government made special arrangements to process applications by Lebanese people. An Australian immigration officer was located in Damascus in April and action was taken to strengthen immigration representation in Cyprus. The Government then reaffirmed that Lebanese visitors were being granted extensions and could stay in Australia. In May 1976-1 am going through the historyspecial staffing arrangements were made at Australian posts in Athens, Nicosia, Cairo and Ankara and an Australian immigration officer was attached to the staff of the Royal Netherlands Embassy in Damascus. In June, the Government decided that a more rapid service could be given to Lebanese applicants by transferring the immigration officer in Damascus to the Australian High Commission in Nicosia. Is this the action of a Government that is not concerned or not competent? In June 1976 the government again reaffirmed that posts in Athens, Cairo, Ankara and Tel Aviv would continue to receive applications from Lebanese seeking to migrate as part of special arrangements for Lebanese migration during the emergency. In September 1976 the Minister announced that a senior officer would be sent to Nicosia to report on the most effective way in which Lebanese immigration to Australia could be organised. Is that the action of a Government that is not concerned? 
A special task force was set up by the Government to deal with the question. If a Government sets up a task force, surely it is concerned. Honourable members did not hear much reference by the honourable member for Melbourne to the operation of the task force. I contend that it suits him to forget the good things and to look around the bottom of the can for something to say. When he finds nothing he then says the first thing that comes into his head. A task force of experienced officers was sent to Cyprus - 
-The honourable member should listen to me because I am telling the truth. 
I am proving beyond any doubt- I am supporting the Minister in this-that this Government is competent and it is concerned. It will pay the honourable member to listen and not just to play party politics. There should be a bipartisan approach to the serious problems. I believe that the Opposition is playing politics in the Lebanese community and that it will reap the reward of that action. It is nice to hear the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  interjecting again and making another preselection speech. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I might point out to the honourable member for Higgins that it is not nice to hear the honourable member for Grayndler interjecting. I suggest that interjections cease. I call the honourable member for Higgins. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I was referring to the task force that the Government set up to look into this tragic situation. The task force was sent to Cyprus where 9 Australian officers were based, including a medical officer so that medical examinations could be completed quickly on the spot. The Australian officers, of course, were supplemented by locally engaged staff, including interpreters. Was that the action of a non-concerned government? Similarly the Government made special arrangements with the Lebanese communities in Melbourne, Sydney and Adelaide for their representatives to travel overseas to assemble and to arrange group transportation of acceptable close relatives of Australian residents. That resulted in the sponsorship of some 4300 spouses, children and parents and their dependent children. 
Is that the action of a non-concerned government? Of course it is not. It proves beyond doubt, as the Minister has done in this House today, that this Government is concerned about people, it is concerned about the problems created by the tragic situation in the Lebanon. It is disgraceful for Opposition spokesmen and Opposition members to talk absolute drivel when they should have a sense of national responsibility. I was surprised that we did not hear from that honourable member opposite who probably knows more about this topic than the 3 Opposition spokesmen put together. I refer to the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  who served on the joint committee. Why did the Opposition not ask him to speak? I will let the facts speak for themselves. I believe- it has been proved today beyond all doubt- that the Government is a government of conscience; it is a government of concern, it is a government of competence, and above all it is a government of action. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. My explanation arises out of the personal explanation which was just made by the Opposition spokesman on immigration, the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes).  I am quite happy to let the facts speak for themselves when the  Hansard  greens are available and  Hansard  is published. Then if it is appropriate, of course, I will apologise. But I am not prepared to do that at this stage because I want to see what was actually said. 
-Has the Prime Minister heard of complaints about the standard of service provided to the public by counter staff in the Commonwealth Public Service? If so, does he intend to take any action to improve the standard of service across the counter to members of the Australian community? 
-I welcome the opportunity to speak in this debate on the Green Paper entitled  Immigration Policies and Australia's Population.  This is a discussion paper which should provoke interest and comment in the community. Since it was tabled last week there have been a number of newspaper editorials and some newspaper comment on it. This debate, I hope, will create further interest in it. I trust that when there has been adequate public debate the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  might ensure that there is another debate in this place on the subject. The paper does not reflect government policy. It is bipartisan. It has been prepared by the Australian Population and Immigration Council whose membership is far ranging. It includes the leader of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  the Secretary of the ACTU, academics, the Minister as  Chairman,  and people from manufacturing industry. The late  Mr Rich  who was the General Executive Manager of the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd was a member. To hear the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  speak today, I rather gathered that in part he was attacking the report. So he was attacking something to which the leader of the ACTU and the  President  of the Australian Labor Party was a party. 
The Minister, in his preface to the report, referred to current trends and raised the question whether a country of the size of Australia, with a small population and a wealth of natural resources, should adopt a policy of zero population growth. I encourage debate about this question. He said: 
In fact, should the current trends in child-bearing continue, Australia is on a long-term path to zero population growth. In addition, because of the present difficult economic and employment situation in Australia, immigration programs have been decreased significantly to a point where the 52 748 migrants arriving in 1975-76 represented the lowest intake since 1947 . . . The rapid increase in Australia's population which has been a feature of post-war years has abated. 
This was part of the background in which the Minister asked the Council to prepare the paper. It comes in one volume. I welcome it for that reason. I welcome its non-technical language. Public understanding of these issues in the community today is needed. The Government wants ideas from the community and from interested groups, so that it can decide its policies. I hope we have another opportunity in this place to debate the subject. 
Let us look at the Australia about which we are talking. Australia is a country whose population is based on immigration. Since 1788 the population has been added to by immigrants. Today there are some 3.4 million Australians who are migrants. Migrants make up approximately 30 per cent of the work force. I think that in looking at immigration and population policies one must involve oneself in an examination of the unemployment question in Australia todaywhether the unemployment is long-term or whether it is short-term. There is obviously genuine unemployment in Australia today. There has been some public debate about its nature and scope. I suggest that there is confusion in the Australian community about the exact nature of unemployment. Young people are out of work, and the problem is perhaps greatest there. This is a serious problem for those involved, and one for the community at large. 
I believe that a number of problems need to be taken into account in analysing unemployment in Australia today. As a member of Parliament I hear from employees who are out of work. I talk with the local Commonwealth Employment Office ... I hear from employers who tell me that they cannot get unskilled labour. I hear of professional people who are unable to get work. I hear of the problems facing school leavers. I think that other members hear the same things. 
There is confusion about the statistics. There seems to be a conflict between CES figures and the Bureau of Statistics' figures. There are, I think, included in the figures a number of people whom I would call 'long term unemployed . I recommend a study of the report of the Australian Government Commission of Inquiry into Poverty entitled  Long Term Unemployed People under Conditions of Full Employment  that was published in 1975. 
-It is a good report, and I thank the honourable member for his interjection. The report, referring to a survey conducted in this matter, states:  , . . these figures suggest that the risk of long-term unemployment is highest among young people and single people. Perhaps it is especially nigh among single people in their forties and fifties. 
The report also states that the proportion of overseas-born long-term unemployed in the survey is roughly similar to that in the Australian population although it recognised that some migrants do have special employment problems. The report also refers to the practice of promoting children from one level to the next irrespective of performance and the problems that that creates. The report goes on to state: 
Ninety per cent of the whole sample had no formal occupational qualification on the level of trade training or above. 
The report draws the conclusion: 
We can suggest the further general conclusion that the risk of long-term unemployment is highest among the unskilled. 
I think that factors such as this are relevant when looking at population policy. 
I realise that  Mr Norgard  is looking into the CES. I welcome today's announcement by the Minister that a number of selected offices of the CES will be open for a trial period on late shopping nights in areas including Prahran which services my electorate. I await  Mr Norgard  's report but I suggest that some of the factors about which I have been talking are enough to warrant some son of semi-judicial inquiry into employment. Perhaps it need not be a royal commission but it would be independent and objective. It could look at the implications of long term unemployment to which I have referred. It could take the survey on that problem further. It could look at the problems and the implications of unemployment for migrants. It could take evidence from all interested parties who wished to give evidence. It could examine objectively the statistics. It could see whether unemployment was regional or whether it was structural. It could examine further the nature of this problem. I think that this might be an important step to take. 
We have to face the fact that there are a number of unemployable people in Australia. That message comes to me from the report that was commissioned by the Australian Government Commission of Inquiry into Poverty. These people are not eligible for sickness or invalid benefits so naturally they are eligible for unemployment benefits. I think that we have to have a bipartisan debate on this matter. We have to ask ourselves whether that is a proper classification of these people, whether they have particular problems, whether there is a general social problem that needs to be solved and whether another criterion of benefit needs to be created. Additionally, I think we need to examine the nature of our education system to ascertain whether sufficient resources are allocated to technical training and whether alternative forms of training for skilled trades other than apprenticeships are available. We have to ask ourselves whether the apprenticeship system has to change. There is a definite relationship between the education policies on the one hand and unemployment policies, population policies and industry policies on the other. 
If we look at the statistics we find that today manufacturing industry is employing fewer people than ever before. Ten years ago approximately 29 per cent of the work force were employed in the manufacturing industry. Today the number is down to approximately 21 per cent. It is a shame in many ways that we do not have before us in this debate today the White Paper on manufacturing industry because there is a definite relationship between the 2 papers. We need to know the scope and nature of the manufacturing sector in Australia. We need to know how many people are likely to be employed in the manufacturing sector if it is expanding. We need to examine the world wide trends in manufacturing. We have to look at what is happening elsewhere in the world. 
At home we are looking at a situation where high inflation caused by the previous government has forced many manufacturers in Australia to set up manufacturing plants overseas. This is called off-shore investment. We have to look internationally at the trends of off-shore investment. I would like to refer to a quite innovative and challenging article written by Norman Macrae which appeared in  The Economist  of December 1976 and which talks about the off-shore situation in the United States. The author says that in fact the successfully exported industries that went from the United States, such as the consumer electronics industry, are in fact departing from Asia and coming back to the United States. In Australia the trend at the moment is for industry to start to go off-shore. I think we need to know whether that trend will continue in Australia or whether it will not. I would welcome the White Paper in that regard. Norman Macrae also raised a number of other interesting issues in that article. He refers to the way that manufacturing industry is trying to go and believes that there will be a rush back to individualism in manufacturing that will step over worker participation. He talks of the European situation and says that no new attempts to integrate settler immigrants as manual workers are likely in Europe but that there will be increased hirings of deliberately short term migrant workers. I do not believe the latter is feasible in Australia or perhaps desirable, but we need to understand what is happening in the rest of the world so that we can by analogy see whether it is appropriate here or whether it is completely inappropriate. He also makes the point in relation to immigration in Britain and refers to an anti-immigration backlash in that country. That certainly does not exist in this country and none of us would ever want it to. But looking at immigration policies in the future one would have to be very careful about how such policies were handled in that regard. 
We will then have to look at the type of Australia that we need. We need to look at population policies that can be related to manufacturing policies and to industry policies both primary- which includes mining- and tertiary. We in fact need to know the type of Australia that Australians want today. In the remaining time available I would like to examine the nature of society in Australia today. As I have said, we have 3.4 million migrants in the community. We have a multi-cultural society. The cultures have brought much to Australia. It was pleasing to notice a number of members wearing kilts at the reception for the Queen in Parliament House. That reflects multi-culturalism. The immigration program has brought to Australia a number of things that we would not otherwise have. I refer to such things as changes of diet and different cultural values which we can all appreciate. But I think we have to be careful not to isolate by way of cultural separatism a number of communities. Of course Government policies are against this. I believe that in looking at population policy we do not want to see cultural ghettos in this country. Policies must be developed so that they are not created. I welcome the policies that we have. In my electorate we have an ethnic teachers ' program to retrain teachers. I welcome more of these courses and more of this son of thing. I have been pleased to be able to speak in this debate. I welcome further public interest in it because I believe it is most important that all Australians understand and contribute to it. 
-I ask the Treasurer a question concerning the thickness of 10c coins. I have before me 2 piles of coins, each to the value of $4 and both of which were obtained by me from the Parliament House Post Office. I sorted these coins into 2 lots- one of 10c coins minted before 1972 and the other of coins minted after 1972. The Treasurer will see that if these stacks to the value of $4 are placed side by side the coins minted after 1972 are not as high a stack as those minted before 1972. There are a lot of comments about the Labor Government causing this, but in the post- 1972 stack one needs coins to the value of $4.10 to equal the height of the pre- 1972 stack. Can the Treasurer supply me with a reason for this? Have standards at the Royal Australian Mint changed? Is the same amount of silver and nickel used in minting post- 1972 coins as was used prior to 1972? In other words, has the missing silver and nickel been used to fund the deficit? Why are the coins shrinking and where has the money gone? 
-Bearing in mind the likelihood of Australia's declaring a 200 mile economic zone at some time in the future, does the Minister for Defence intend to order more patrol boats and surveillance aircraft than indicated in the White Paper on defence? Are the Tracker aircraft recently purchased from the United States of America in action at the present time? Has the Minister made any decision concerning the order of 1 5 new patrol boats for the Royal Australian Navy? Does he consider that 1 5 patrol boats are enough for present purposes? 
-I have been a member of a union. The trade union movement is important for the future of Australia. I think that honourable members on the other side of the House ought to listen and have a little bit of common sense when talking about these matters. We are not union bashing in this legislation. We are injecting into it the public interest. We are injecting the public interest into the legislation to counter abuses of power and position by the trade unions. That is all we are doing. This legislation before the House, this section 45D, in many respects is more important than the Industrial Relations Bureau legislation to which reference has been made in the debate. The people of Australia know that they are on a good double with these 2 pieces of legislation. The people of Australia know that the abuses of union power have to be curtailed in the public interest. The trade unions have abused their power. They enjoy enormous immunities and privileges that others in society do not have. 
-If the honourable member for Gellibrand were to exceed the speed limit when he was driving his car home tonight- 1 am not suggesting that he would do so- he would be apprehended and prosecuted. But the unions, in regard to abuses of power, are subject to no law at all and the honourable member knows that as well as I do. 
-The honourable member for Port Adelaide knows it better. The union bully boss comes here tonight and tells us that this law is a bad law and that it will bring the Parliament into disrepute in the community. It will do the opposite. It is a good law and it will re-establish the supremacy of Parliament, the supremacy of the people and the supremacy of public interest over abuses of union power. The honourable member knows that as well as anybody else. The unions, by exerting power, have injured trade unionists. They have injured members of trade unions, fellow workers, and they have in fact threatened the economic and political structure of society itself. They have used mass economic power and have made it necessary by these abuses for the Government to inject this section into the legislation in the public interest. 
Trade union activities are legitimate in respect of industrial matters such as negotiating terms, hours, conditions of employment, holiday pay, etc. Those are its proper functions. We recognise that and the community recognises that. One of the troubles with the union movement as a socialist in Britain, Paul Johnson, has pointed out is that it has outlived its usefulness and is in fact looking for somewhere to go. Because of this, it is abusing the power that it has. 
-That is the former editor of the  New Statesman.  At present unions are exempt from civil laws or wrong doing. Perhaps some area of civil law applies to them but it would be a very small area of that law. Here we attempt to redress this abuse. 
I should like to look at section 45D which was introduced by the Minister. This has been criticised on 2 grounds: Firstly, that it has no role to play in union activity and, secondly, that it is too wide and goes beyond secondary boycotts. The Government is completely correct in rejecting the argument for the reasons I have stated, that there is no role for trade practices legislation in union activity. I stated earlier that the government role is to protect the public interest. Corporations and companies are subject to legislation. There are company laws controlling the activities and incorporation of companies. There are safety laws concerning the safety of the work place. There are trade practices laws- this Trade Practices Act with monopoly provisions, exclusive dealing provisions and consumer protection provisions. There are consumer protection provisions in State law and there are Prices Justification Tribunal laws. Employers and companies are subject to laws in the public interest. I do not see for one minute why the union movement should not be subject to laws in the public interest. I feel that the Minister has shown common sense in accepting the argument that the original draft concerning boycotts was too wide. He has drafted it to put it beyond doubt that the legislation applies only to secondary boycotts. This is evidence of the sincerity of the Minister and the Government in these matters. 
Let us look at secondary boycotts. A secondary boycott involving employees is where employees together hinder or prevent commercial dealings between their employer and another business with the aim of influencing the conduct of the boycotted business. I believe that there will be aspects of this legislation that will benefit the community in the short term. One of the provisions of secondary boycotts in practice is where employees decide to apply pressure on a single company to force that company to implement some particular policy. An example of this is where unions cut off supplies of raw materials - 
Debate interrupted. 
I was saying that an example of a boycott is where unions cut off supplies of raw materials to a firm in order to enforce the unionisation of that firm's work force or to support the employees of that union in an industrial dispute. I believe that this provision will be particularly acceptable to the Australian public and may in the short term have an effect, for instance in Victoria in relation to the building of the Newport power station. I am pleased that the Victorian Government has started work on that project, but I understand that there have been threats by union leaders in Victoria to boycott supplies of material to the State Electricity Commission of Victoria or to the contractors. I believe that this legislation should be taken notice of by the unionists concerned. I believe it will be welcomed by the Victorian Government and by the people of* Victoria and that this planned activity that some union leaders have threatened in relation to Newport can be dealt with by action under this legislation when it comes into effect. Similarly, in relation to the ban on live cattle exports by some unions I believe that would be a secondary boycott to which this provision would apply. I know that the public will welcome the provision in that regard. Similarly, some activities by waterfront and shipping unions in relation to activity on the waterfront and on shipping around the Australian coast- I am thinking of their activity in relation to delaying ships- may also fall within this legislation. 
The legislation is extremely reasonable. I turn to the penalties provision of the Bill. The normal penalties for offences against the provision of the Trade Practices Act are $250,000 for a corporation and $50,000 for individuals. The Government has decided that under section 45D individuals will not be liable for pecuniary penalties. Additionally, the liabilities of individuals for civil damages will be limited by a provision which deems unions to be responsible for the boycott activities of their members unless they establish that they took all reasonable steps to prevent the activity. 
If a union is deemed responsible for any anti-competitive activity the individuals involved will be protected from liabilities for civil damages. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  interjected and asked: 'What are they?' He showed abysmal ignorance and lack of ability to read legislation when he was whingeing and complaining about the Minister's second reading speech. All honourable members have the legislation before them. We are all able to read and write. I presume that the honourable member tells the people in his electorate that he is here and considers legislation. One has considerable doubt about that in listening to him speak. 
-It is nice to hear the honourable member for Grayndler interjecting. Here we have an expert in trade practices law in the House. I welcome his interjection and I look forward to his contribution to the debate. He is trying to interject again. I do not know whether honourable members of this House know that the honourable member for Grayndler has a considerable, distinctive record as a legal adviser to one of the world's largest companies. I hope that the people of Grayndler and the members of the Australian Labor Party in his electorate are well aware of his experience and that he will bring it before the House. 
-I am glad that the honourable member is interjecting and acknowledging his experience in an international sense. I am sure it will be used to the benefit of the people of Grayndler and the people of Australia. 
I suppose that is a fair comment from the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, who is at the table. I move on to the general provisions of the legislation concerning the commercial activities of the Commonwealth Government. I welcome the provision which provides that these commercial activities are to be subject to the legislation. As I understand it the legislation will apply to activities of Medibank and the Commonwealth Bank. It is regrettable in some ways that Telecom and Australia Post are not to be subjected to the legislation. They have statutory monopolies. Perhaps in the future the Government will look at areas where the Trade Practices Act may apply to them. I recognise that there are difficulties in drafting legislation but I do not think this is something that we should shy away from. 
I turn now to look at the monopoly provisions of the Bill which have been attacked by the other side. I welcome the change which reflects the nature of the Australian economy but still provides for a merger law in the public interest. Section 50 of the Act is now to be changed to provide that a corporation will not merge, that is, acquire assets or shares, if as a result of that acquisition the corporation would be in a position to control or dominate a market for goods or services. This is a change from the previous section which had a competitive test of whether a merger had the effect of a substantial lessening of competition. I welcome that change because there is a new thrust. It recognises in part the nature of the Australian economy. I congratulate in sincerity some comments of the honourable member for Port Adelaide when talking about problems Australian industry faces regarding conflict between trade practices law on the one hand and Industries Assistance Commission reports or tariff policy on the other. There are problems here. I mean sincerely that I was pleased to hear him recognise that, although he differs with our approach. There are in fact conflicts between the Trade Practices Act, the approach of the Industries Assistance Commission and the Prices Justification Tribunal. 
I should like to make some brief comments about monopoly in Australia. I think it is often misunderstood in debate. I think the degree of monopoly often tends to be overstated. Often the function of import competition and its place in the economy is overlooked. The 1975-76 annual report of the IAC states that 20 per cent of the Australian market supplies of manufactured goods came from imports. The decline in the manufacturing sector that I think was referred to in the White Paper on manufacturing industry today, which over 10 years has seen the percentage of the Australian work force employed in that sector go from something like 29 per cent to less than 21 per cent, is serious and has to be looked at in relation to merger provisions and trade practices law. One assumes that the problems that manufacturers face can in some way be overcome by merging so that they can become more economic and efficient and compete with imports. I think efficiency needs to be considered. One assumes that manufacturing industry will have to rationalise in many respects to survive competitive pressures. 
I also look at the effect of the Prices Justification Tribunal in relation to the abuse of monopoly power. Monopoly provisions are still contained in the legislation. We must not forget that. But one has to remember that monopolies or companies with large market shares and in dominant positions in the Australian economy by and large have to apply to the Prices Justification Tribunal or are subject to its general overview in relation to their prices. So there is in fact a profit control over many companies that have substantial positions in the Australian economy and which have perhaps a position of dominance in terms of section 50 of the Act. I think that is something that one needs to look at. One also needs to examine the point that when a merger takes place the unit costs of production will usually fall. Hence there will be no need for a price increase and, accordingly, there will be a benefit for the Australian economy and community at large. I think this needs to be clearly and plainly understood. In other words, mergers can lead to lower prices and benefits to the Australian consumer. That has to be recognised. One also hopes that in administering these laws- this section of the Act and the others- the Trade Practices Commission will show a sensible and practical approach to the problem. I think it ought to understand the nature of the Government's amendments in this light. 
I congratulate the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs on his approach. I understand that there will be a debate of some length in the Committee stage on the complicated technical nature of this legislation. I welcome that. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I would like to raise another point that occurred to me when I sat down. It is in relation to competitive dealings between competitors. I wonder whether the situation I will outline is caught within the provisions of the legislation. I refer to a small corner store grocer who buys his supplies from the local supermarket. I understand that there are few wholesale grocers today and that it is cheaper for many corner store operators, to buy from supermarkets tea for instance, which at the present time is in short supply in parts of Australia. Those people do compete; I suppose the answer might be that there is no exclusionary provision in that case. But I suppose that in every selling activity there is a positive and a negative side. When a supermarket sells, say to a corner store proprietor, it excludes somebody else from buying those goods. I would assume and hope that it would not be the intent of the proposed new section to cover that situation. 
-I support the Government's amendments, especially the amendment concerning section 24 of the Act to which the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  has just referred. I recognise his experience in these matters. He was blaming legalism in the business community for delays at public hearings and before the Commission. I suppose that many businesses would blame delays by bureaucrats on an administrative body which, virtually, the Commission is. It is important to remember that it is not a judicial body. It is not a court. The honourable member for Grayndler answered his own argument by saying that businesses aggrieved still had their rights protected to apply for a declaration or go to the courts of the land. They can still have public hearing in a judicial way and not an administrative way to which this section refers. It is a perfectly proper amendment. The business, company or trader concerned can still have its eyeball to eyeball negotiation with the Trade Practices Commission. If the matter cannot be resolved, it can resort to the courts. Similarly, the honourable member for Grayndler also answered his own criticism when he said that there had not been all that many public hearings. I took him to say that. He can correct me if I am wrong. He indicates that that is so. If that is the case, I believe that is a reason for the amendment which the Government has introduced. Accordingly, I support it. 
I disagree completely with what the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  has just said about the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard).  I thought that the Minister most adequately explained this provision which I regard as a potential link provision between the Industries Assistance Commission and perhaps the Prices Justification Tribunal Act. Only last night the honourable member for Port Adelaide said that there is conflict, or potential conflict, between at least the IAC and the trade practice laws. I welcomed the honourable member's sensible comments in that regard. I had a degree of agreement with him in this respect. I think we should accept and welcome the Minister's assurances in relation to this part of the legislation. We should see this part of the legislation as a link between those provisions in respect of which a government has ultimate responsibility to make decisions. In fact this is something that could be welcomed and used to avoid conflicts. Perhaps this area is a challenge for governments in the future. 
Question put- 
-We have just had an amusing act by the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson),  the Houses' newest grandfather. I am afraid that it did not deserve any encore and it did not bring down any curtain. I shall defer to the Opposition and be brief in talking about proposed section 45D. This is not aimed at trade unionists; it is aimed at irresponsible trade unionists and irresponsible trade union activity that is against the public interest. The honourable member for Burke made a passionate plea about entrenched rights and the infringement of entrenched rights by this proposed section. This legislation does no such thing. The honourable member made no complaint about the common law of conspiracy or the industrial torts of intimidation or inducing a breach of contract. Nor did he refer to the Commonwealth Crimes Act which has provisions concerning obstructing or hindering the performances of services- not dissimilar provisions in this respect- and provisions of legislation and common law that apply to boycott activity. 
I think that the Government has been very sensible and has acceded to complaints from the trade union movement that earlier drafts were wider than a secondary boycott. It has confined this section in this new definition to the dominant purpose needing to be that of the secondary boycott. In so doing, there is an implication, at first reading, that in fact a primary boycott might be authorised. But that is not so because I take it that this section is solely for the purpose of the Trade Practices Act. It is a section of trade practices law. It is only a definition section. There is no implication in it that a primary boycott is legal. I wish to make that point. I assume that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  agrees with that statement. Similarly, I believe that its purpose is related solely to trade practices law and has no effect on those laws that I previously pointed out to the honourable member for Burke that applied to abuses and breaches of law by irresponsible trade unionists, namely, the common law of conspiracy, provisions of the Commonwealth Crimes Act, industrial torts of intimidation and inducing breach of contract In deference to the Opposition, I conclude my remarks at this stage. 
-On 22 March last I asked the Prime Minister a question about the subject of service to the public by counter staff in the Commonwealth Public Service. In his reply he indicated that an interdepartmental committee had been set up to look into the question. I ask the right honourable gentleman: Is that report yet to hand? Have any decisions been made in respect of it? Are any changes to either practices or training procedures planned? Is the right honourable gentleman aware that there is a vacancy for a counter pensions officer at the Prahan office of the Department of Social Security that services both my electorate and the electorate of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports? Will the Prime Minister use his good offices to have this vacant position filled? 
I welcome the recognition by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  that the Government is strengthening the consumer protection provisions of the Act. There are people in this House and in the community who say that there is a lot of divisiveness between the parties, but I think that this debate in part puts the lie to that and I personally welcome it. I should also say that these provisions prove that the Government is injecting the matter of public interest into this legislation. It is a shame that the honourable member for Grayndler does not agree that we are injecting public interest into section 45D, under which secondary boycotts which are an abuse of union power and which affect business will also be subject to the provisions of the Act. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, I wish to reply briefly to the point made by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  in relation to the merger provisions and the right of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  and the Trade Practices Commission to obtain an order under, I think, section 80A of the Trade Practices Act. I think that was the section to which the honourable member referred. He said that he was against this because it weakened the provisions. I would merely point out that it is still possible under the legislation for any person to obtain either damages or divestiture. I would have thought these were fairly inhibiting factors that someone would take into account before he contemplated a breach of the section or to take an action that may be a potential breach of the section. 
The honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  talked about the inevitable growth of monopolies. May I say in answer to mm that I welcome the provisions of proposed section 45D because they are restraining the inevitable growth of monopoly- of the abuse by irresponsible unionists of the union power which is also monopoly power. 
-In my view the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  is wrong in his comments on section 85 of the Act and the amending clause in relation to these defences. They are still strong provisions. When one is talking of onuses of proof and defences against the Act one must have some degree of certainty. The honourable member for Grayndler knows as well as anyone that the basic principle of criminal law is that a matter has to be proved beyond reasonable doubt. That is not the provision in this section. He also spoke of negligence which, as he well knows, is a civil law, the breach of which is a duty of care that somebody owes to another. We have a whole range of possibilities between strict liability where there is no defence for an action on the one hand- I think this is unfair, we must be speaking of fairness and equity- and proof of negligence on the other. These matters have to be taken into account. I was also interested in his reference to the Trade Practices Commission. I make no attack on or complaint about the Trade Practices Commission. I was pleased to see one of its eminent officers following the debate in this chamber yesterday. But when the Trade Practices Commission comments on a defence in an Act such as this, it is fair for me to say that it has some sort of vested interest in the matter. One of the duties it is charged with under the Act is its enforcement. In my view, the comments of the honourable member for Grayndler on that matter have to be seen in that light. 
I found the last comments of the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  extremely curious. On the one hand he attacked the Government for abolishing clearances in the terms in which he spoke. He said that this would mean an excessive legalism. What he is saying is that every law of the land and every court of the land to which people can apply for justice are, in fact, excessive legalism. He is saying that in every case we should have an administrative tribunal and we should abandon the law. I thought that one of the basic precepts of a democracy was that people were equal before the law, whether they be individuals, companies or whatever. Here the honourable member for Grayndler has said that it is a shame that clearances have been abolished. 
I think that for him to be consistent he would have wanted to abolish clearances because they have injection of equity or fairness about them. They are merely an arrangement between the party concerned and the Trade Practices Commission. In essence, that is what they are. No public interest is injected at this stage. There is an agreement between a potential prosecutor and a potential defender. That may be very well and good between them but this Government is interested in the public and in protecting it. That is why we introduced section 45D which protects the public from secondary boycotts and the abuse of union power by irresponsible trade unionists. That is a consistent theme in our legislation. It is a consistent theme in the strengthening of the consumer protection provisions with which, I admit, the honourable member for Grayndler has agreed. But for him to say that legalism is not certain is to insult the judicial process because all are equal before the law. 
To hear the honourable member speak one would think that people are denied the right to go to law under this provision. That is not so. In abolishing the clearance provision we have said that deals between the Commission and a potential defendant can be challenged in the court only in the public interest. What is wrong with that? I think that the courts of the land are the place where these issues should be decided. That is what this Act and these amendments do. I am not attacking the Commission, but in its comments on the legislation the Commission essentially sees the legislation through rose coloured glasses. There is nothing wrong with that, but to ask the Commission what it thinks about changes to the Act is like asking the hangman for a comment on how to improve the trapdoor of the gallows. There is nothing wrong with consulting the Trade Practices Commission about its views. It has a proper role to play. But I think that when one has the Commission's comments in front of one, one has to look at those comments and say: 'The Commission had made that decision because of that. That decision is right. Perhaps that one has too much emphasis the wrong way. Perhaps the Commission has been seeing that too much in the role of prosecutor'. 
We are trying to put this legislation in the public interest. That is how it should be judged. We are trying to represent the public interest in terms of equity and fairness. I think that that is the key to the question. That is certainly the key to proposed new section 45D which has been welcomed by the public of Australia. For the first time the legislation will deal with the abuse of monopoly power in a secondary boycott situation which affects business, wipes out business and adds cost to the Australian economy. It can break and wipe out individuals and companies, subject to the law of the land. I know that the legislation is welcomed in that regard. I was interested to hear the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  speak about credit laws and the growth of monopoly power. Monopoly power can exist on behalf of corporations as it exists on behalf of unions. They all enjoy monopoly power and they all have to be subject to the public interest. That is what this Government is interested in. It wants to protect the public, the man in the street, the consumer. Anybody who says that that is not so is not talking the truth. I support the Government's amendments. I congratulate the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  on his approach. In conclusion, I say that he withdrew one amendment this evening in connection with the merger section - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  I think the honourable member is getting a little bit outside the substance of the matter which we are debating. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, I am grateful for your direction in this matter. I conclude by congratulating the Minister for bringing this legislation before the Committee. 
I wish to rebut totally the speech made a few minutes ago by the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris).  He referred to the report of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on Industrial Support for Defence Needs and Allied Matters. The honourable member selectively quoted parts of that report concerning shipbuilding in Australia. He failed to say that what he was talking about was referred to in the report in a defence context. He did not refer to a comment by me in the report, namely, that one of the main problems in the shipbuilding industry in Australia in times gone past was that the defence and commercial interests did not get together. 
I believe there was an opportunity in the past for the commercial interests and the Navy to get together to design a ship using Australian innovation. A ship such as the Harrier Carrier could have been developed and constructed. It could have been based on the roll-on roll-off type of vessel. I think it is a tragedy that that did not occur. But so be it. The other point the honourable member for Shortland did not mention was the potential for the smaller and medium sized shipyards in Australia to grow. There are efficient shipbuilding yards in Australia building small and medium sized ships. I believe there is a chance for them to make their contribution by increasing productivity and finding their own mark. I think we will see patrol boats, heavy uplift ships and other ships built in these yards. I am confident of that. 
The final matter to which I refer tonight is a sad occasion for Australia and for Canberra and that is the passing in the Hague, Netherlands, earlier this week of the Dutch Ambassador to Australia, Baron van Aerssen. He left Australia a few weeks ago stricken with cancer and passed away earlier this week. I express to the Government of the Netherlands and to his wife my sadness on this occasion. Baron van Aerssen came to Australia as a boy when his father opened the first Dutch mission here. It was a joy to him to return many years later as Ambassador. He enjoyed Australia. He appreciated and spoke of the contribution which members of the Dutch community made in this country. I think that in part he was almost as much an Australian as he was a Dutchman. He had a charming wife. Both of them added to the enjoyment of and contributed to the diplomatic scene and life in Canberra. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 2 June 1977: 
) What is the number of 10c coins minted in each of the years from1966 to1976 inclusive. 
What metals and/or alloys were used in minting10c coins in each of those years. 
What amounts of metals and/or alloys were used in the minting of 1 0c coins in each of those years. 
What are the measurements and dimensions of 10c coins, and are these the same in respect of each of those years. 
-I ask the Treasurer a question concerning the currency, gold and the deficit. Will the Treasurer consider changing the Currency Act to provide for the Royal Australian Mint to stike a new Australian gold coin? Does he agree that there is a demand for such a gold coin? Does he also agree that perhaps $50 or $100 would be an appropriate denomination and that the sale of such a coin would, in fact, raise revenue for the Government and attract funds from overseas? 
-The Opposition stands condemned and the Australian Labor Party stands indicted for failing to tell the nation, and the House, its attitude towards the current wave of strikes and abuse of union power throughout Australia. Australia abounds with strikes. There are strikes all over the land. The Victorian power strike is crippling industry and hurting people. There is a Seamens Union strike in Queensland which has stopped a major investment project and is causing people to lose jobs. In Western Australia there is a transport workers' hauliers strike that is affecting the ability of people in that State to get supplies. There is an Australian Postal and Telecommunications Union dispute in which bans are stopping the delivery of mail in New South Wales. 
There are building disputes in Victoria. The Collins Place project has virtually stopped and there are guerrilla tactics at the State Bank site in Elizabeth Street. There is a series of rolling strikes in the meat industry, putting up costs to the consumer. There are bans by the union movement on the export of products to Chile and Indonesia. There are bans on the export of livestock when those exports would help save the beef industry. In Victoria there is a plumbers strike which is crippling many building projects. The Knox Shopping Centre would directly employ 525 people but those people are being denied jobs. 
There is a strike in Bass Strait that shortly could threaten the supplies of oil to the nation. One day a few weeks ago six different building disputes were before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. People in this nation are out of work. More people are out of work through the activity of a small band of union officials than are unemployed. The Opposition is constantly raising the matter of the number of unemployed in this country, but it constantly fails to tell us about the number of people who are out of work and unemployed because of the activities of a small band of union officials. 
I challenge the Opposition- I challenge the Labor Party- to tell us where it stands in relation to those people who have been stood down, those families which are suffering, because of the activities of a few union officials. We want to know; the nation demands that we be told. People are out of work. Small businesses are affected; large businesses are affected. An employer in a small business in my electorate said yesterday that he put off 35 people. I am not engaging in a union bashing exercise. 
Opposition members- Oh! 
-There they go, putting up the normal smokescreen that is put up on these occasions. It is a smokescreen which the Opposition puts up to hide the real truth. The real truth is that the Labor Party cannot tell us where it stands on these issues. It is remarkably silent and throws out the smokescreen of union bashing to divert the attention of the people from the truth. The vast majority of responsible unionists, like the vast majority of Australians, need to know where the Labor Party stands. 
I am not attacking the 95 per cent of unionists who are responsible and decent people. I am attacking some 1,200 communist and left wing officials who are threatening the very security of this nation. The union movement is a proper part of the capitalist system. In fact, as a matter of history, it arose out of abuses of the capitalist system. It was proper that it did so. It has a proper function to negotiate and to talk with employers concerning hours, terms, wages and conditions of employment. But the trouble with the union movement now is that it has outlived its original function. We in this society are engaged in a battle for the supremacy of the rights of the people and for the supremacy of the rights of the Parliament over the abuses of power by a few officials in the union movement. 
The battle which we are fighting is no less a battle than that fought to curb the power of the divine right of kings, to curb the power of the barons, to capture the spirit of the Magna Carta; the battle that was fought against the evils of fascism; and the battle against the industrial barons of the past century. When the history of the times we are now in is written it will tell us whether the battle against the abuses of union power was won or lost. It is in fact a fight for the supremacy of Parliament and for the supremacy of the rights of the people. 
The Australian Labor Party is not concerned that people are out of work. I was talking this morning to the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  and he told me of an incident he witnessed last week when he was in a Commonwealth Employment Service office. A man who had been stood down because of the current power dispute in Victoria asked: 'What am I going to do? I have a wife and a young child. Where can I get a job?' That man and 500,000 others in Victoria and perhaps 600,000 or 700,000 people throughout Australia are out of work because of the excesses of union power. It is time that the public interest was taken into account so that people such as that man in Greensborough, that man in Diamond Valley, can get a job. He has the right to work and he must not be denied that right. 
The honourable member for Diamond Valley told me that until the power dispute the figures for registered unemployed in that CES office showed a slowing down in unemployment, but because of this abuse of union power unemployment is rising again. Small businesses are being smashed. The harvest of wheat for the nation's farmers is being threatened because 220-odd harvesters are on a production line and production cannot continue because of the power strike. 
I have referred to the denial by the unions of the ability of Australian livestock producers to export cattle. I believe that the export of live cattle could solve the problems of the beef industry. I should like to know what the Cattlemen's Union thinks about that. Let us look at where the Opposition stands on these matters. Let us look at what it has to say. The honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  the Leader of the Opposition, when asked about unions last Monday on a  PM  program said: 
I believe that the people to settle this are the Arbitration Commission. 
I point out to the Leader of the Opposition that the plain fact is that the arbitration system is breaking down because of the excesses of union power and because of the activities of left wing unionists. For him to say that the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is the proper place to settle the Victorian power dispute is to deny the facts. Arbitration has failed. That is why the Victorian Government has had to act. So much for the Leader of the Opposition! 
Last Friday we had a visit from the Acting, shall I say, Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  He was asked on a  PM  program whether he supported the workers' claims. He said: . . . I believe something has got to be done . . . but I don't know enough about the details to be able to give any definitive statement or any firm commitment. 
-That was what the honourable member for Oxley said about the Victorian power dispute. I repeat what he said: . . . I don't know enough about the details to be able to give any definitive statement or any firm commitment. 
We welcomed him to the Greensborough byelection in Victoria for telling us where the Australian Labor Party- the Opposition- does not stand. I am pleased that he came because he will win votes for the candidate Bill Foster at that byelection. I challenge him to get up in this House and tell us where he stands on these issues. 
I also challenge the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  who I know will speak later in this debate, to tell us where he stands. Last week the honourable member for Port Adelaide wrote in a political column about the stability of government and talked about political brinkmanship. But he ignored the headne 'Hamer Poised to End Strike' which appeared on the front page of the  Australian  newspaper on the very day that he talked about these things. I believe that the honourable member for Port Adelaide and others like him in this House are in a unique position to offer solutions. He has been a successful manager in the union movement and he is a prominent politician. But so far we have not heard anything from him on this issue. Perhaps this afternoon we will get an indication as to where he stands. We have not heard anything from the Leader of the Opposition in Victoria. There is a strange silence amongst the Opposition. 
I should like to know also, and I think the people of Australia are entitled to know, where the Australian Democrats stand on this issue. The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  has talked of engineered confrontation and bickering, but he has not given us any answer. The Parliament and the public need to know where people in this Parliament stand on this issue. I have no doubt where I and my colleagues stand. Let us have some solutions. I support the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in the answer which he gave to a question today on this issue and I support the Victorian Government in moves to de-register these unions in the La Trobe Valley. 
Let us look at where some other politicians stand on this issue. Let us look at what  Mr Wran,  the Premier of New South Wales, said. There is a glimmer of hope for the Opposition. During an interview on the radio program  AM  on 10 October  Mr Wran,  who I think is the only Labor politician to acknowledge that strikes are occurringhe has his head out of the sand, even though he accused the Prime Minister of other things- said: 
It is a long term battle and we're not being assisted at the moment either by too many strikes . . . 
I congratulate the Premier of New South Wales on his realisation that there are too many strikes. I criticise him for attacking the Prime Minister on other issues on that occasion. That might be the beginning of a consensus in this country, if other people in the Labor movement were to acknowledge that in fact strikes are occurring. That very day the Premier of South Australia, when asked about the problems of the nation, did not even refer to strikes. 
Let us look at this brilliant advertisement which appeared in this morning's Melbourne  Age.  It was placed by the Australian Labor Party. It displays 24 headlines from newspapers in Australia. Not one of those headlines m that advertisement to the people of Australia today mentions strikes or the abuse of union power. If the Opposition would like that tabled, it can have it tabled. That is an Australian Labor Party advertisement. It says that the headlines tell the story. They tell the story all right; the story is told by what has not been included in the advertisement in the  Age.  It is a fraudulent advertisement. It talks about unemployment. I would say that the words that should appear in that advertisement are: 'Unemployment through union strikes is the worst that it has been'. It is the worst ever. More people are out of work now because of the abuses of union power. 
-I thank the honourable member for Barton for his interjection. The Labor Party is in a dilemma because, on the one hand, its organisational strength comes from the union movement and, on the other hand, its essential weakness, its democratic weakness, is that it is linked with the union movement. The people of Australia know that whoever controls the union movement- that is, the left wing- controls the Labor Party. The Labor Party was born out of the union movement; the Labor Party is a party formed to represent unionists in parliament. The people of Australia need to be reminded of that. That is the plain truth. 
Last century the miners of Eureka fought for their rights on the goldfields of Ballarat. Now the community of Australia is fighting an historic battle for its right to exert the supremacy of the Parliament, the supremacy of the elected representatives of the people. These disputes throughout the nation involve the will of the people. It is clear to me that the will of the people of Australia must prevail through the ability to govern of the duly elected government. Parliament must prevail; the will of the people must prevail. I am confident that when the history books are written it will be shown that the good sense of the Australian people prevailed. I can assure the House that this Government is on the side of the people. 
-In speaking on the Estimates for the Department of Health this evening I raise the question of the link between child neglect and drug taking. This is a serious problem worthy of attention in Australia today. I hope that the proposed Commonwealth inquiry into drugs will cover the links between child abuse and drug taking. I have talked to experts in the field and have gathered information which I believe will be of interest to the House. It is not only drugs like morphine, heroin, marihuana and hash which are involved but also some standard tranquilliser prescription items commonly prescribed by medical practitioners. These include drugs such as Valium. Often women under stress have Valium prescribed for their condition. If a child is annoying a mother by crying or playing up in some other way she may well be tempted to give the child a dose of the sedative she herself is taking. I know of one reported case where a mother under some stress was prescribed this drug.  Her  child looked normal. She was under the care of a foster mother who was distressed when she found blood on the pillow. It was found that the child's throat had virtually been burnt out because she had had a near lethal dose of the sedative. 
The danger of drugging children with drugs such as this is that they are quietened down during the day time, their normal time of activity which is part of the growing up process. They receive no normal stimulation. They cannot play. They cannot walk. There is a great risk that they will become mentally backward. Their brain is not allowed to develop. It is also fairly common for drugs like Valium, Phenergan and Benadryl to be prescribed for children themselves. Another drug is Mandrax, a sleeping tablet which is reasonably freely available under prescription and is addictive. One mother is reported to have stated that she can build up a tolerance and get a kick out of Mandrax. I know of a case where a mother on this drug bruised her leg from falling downstairs, burnt her arm in a fire and had a black eye from falling over all in the space of a few days. She was an ex-morphine addict and had switched to pot and Mandrax. Many of the drugs frequently prescribed for children can cause problems. Parents may be tempted to give higher doses of tranquilisers to quieten down their naughty children who are upsetting them. I referred earlier to the drug Phenergan which is freely available under prescription as a drug for children. It can cause the problems I have mentioned. 
We all realise that screaming and naughty children can irritate parents. But we must remember that children can build up a tolerance to drugs and can start on the road to drug taking by parents giving them overdoses of these prescriptions or giving them when not prescribed. The question of hard drugs is even more serious. I know of a case where the mother of a young child was a heroin addict. She attempted to commit suicide by taking caustic soda on one occasion and swallowing razor blades. In the opinion of some experts in the child welfare field this mother had little chance of leading a normal life. The child was subsequently made a ward of the State. This raises the issue of children's rights and whether these rights are different from the rights of the parents. It is common in the treatment of addicts with young children that the child is taken to the hospital with the mother. This raises a conflict between the natural right of the parent to bring up a child and the child's rights. A child who is with his mother in the hospital will often be locked in a room with his mother, have no other children to play with and be a virtual prisoner of the institution in which the mother is placed. I think that emphasis needs to be put on the treatment of the family rather than on the treatment of the patient. 
The risk of physical danger to children of drug takers is high. I know of a case in which a child of 20 months drowned in the bath because the mother was so 'zonked' out she did not know the child was drowning. My fear, and the evidence, is that in cases of parents taking drugs often they do not know what they are doing. They have no recollection or feeling of remorse after a trip. They cannot believe that they are cruel or bad parents and often they appear to be very respectable parents when faced by the authorities, but their behaviour is always irresponsible and un- predictable. They may be out in the cold for long ours without tending to a small child which itself may be frail because of diet in pregnancy. Medical practitioners when treating parents must consider rehabilitation of the child as well as the parent. They must consider in the case of addicts whether it is proper for the child to stay with the mother during the course of treatment. 
I would like to look at another recorded case in examining this question of the child 's rights. The mother was shooting up, as they say, on heroin; the house in which she was living was raided by police; she was living with a prostitute and the house was frequented by addicts and dealers; the child was not changed or bathed- and she thought that she was a good mother. Was she a good mother? Is this the right and proper environment in which to bring up a child? What are the child's rights? Need they be different from those of the parent? These are the sorts of issues in the community today to which we need to find answers. Children are being exposed to the drug scene and the drug environment. I have had reports from people involved in the welfare areas which state that apparently dogs can be affected if they are in a room where marihuana is being smoked. Presumably young children will be affected. I have heard a report that a baby was konked out- that was the term used- and its head went limp in a marihuana smoke filled room. There are also cases of children born to heroin addicts being born with withdrawal symptoms. 
There is a strong case for legislators to consider the point of view that children of known addicts should be seen to be legally at risk in some form or another. As I said at the opening of my remarks, I hope that this matter can be examined by the Commonwealth inquiry into drugs. With heroin at $40 to $50 a shot and with mainliners needing four shots a day, obviously some addicts needing that $200 a day will turn to crime. Perhaps this explains many of Victoria's bank holdups and the growth in the massage parlour business. 
-I ask the Prime Minister a question concerning Japanese-Australian relations and the proposed 200-mile economic zone. Is the Prime Minister aware of the New Zealand Prime Minister's threat to Japan that Japanese fishing vessels might be banned from the proposed New Zealand 200-mile economic zone? In view of the fact that South Pacific countries are moving together to establish simultaneously 200-nule fishing zones, has Australia been informed officially of the New Zealand position? Have other countries in the South Pacific also been informed? Does the New Zealand statement threaten the date of declaration of fishing zones in the South Pacific? Does Australia share the New Zealand Prime Minister's views? 
-I speak in support of the estimates for the Department of Science, particularly in support of the allocation of additional staff and funds and the expansion of areas of research provided in the Budget in respect of the Australian Antarctic Division. There is a certain curiosity and fascination about the Antarctic. It is still the great unknown. Man has not yet tamed or conquered it. In the middle of summer heavy clothing must be worn. It is still a new frontier for man. Its resources are now attracting world-wide attention. Some of these are minerals. Coal and iron ore have been discovered and there has been exploration for oil and gas. A hole has been drilled by the  Glomar 

 Challenger. Methane and ethane have been discovered. Manganese nodules which are found in other parts of the world have been found there. 
Of course, there is fish and the subject of whether whales should or should not be caught. There is krill, which is an enormous protein resource. It is a small lobster or prawn-like creature. It is already harvested by a number of countries including, I think, West Germany and the Soviet Union. Fresh water, in the form of icebergs, is now attracting attention as to whether it could solve the problems of some of the drier regions of the world. Of course there is tourism. The Budget provides for expenditure on an examination of a proposal for an intercontinental airship at one of Australia's Antarctic stations.  Dr Law,  the famous Australian who pioneered so much of our work in the Antarctic, is in fact in favour of an intercontinental polar route to South America via Antarctica. He has pointed out that the route from Melbourne to New York would be only 600 miles longer than the route via Honolulu. In fact, the proposal has a lot of attraction about it. Already Qantas Airways Ltd has had nights over the Pole. Cruise ships have been in the area. The polar route to Europe is something that I think we need to explore. 
We need to have more in common with our South American colleagues. I think one of the fascinations of South America is how much geographically we have in common and how little we know about each other. In this country we still look to the northern hemisphere. Perhaps we could learn more about our part of the world by seeing what other occupants of the southern hemisphere have done. We of course share in common with the South Americans interest in the Antarctic region. I think this is something that might bring us together. It has recently become more widely known that Russia has three bases in the Australian Antarctic Territory. These were established in, I think, the International Geophysical Year and are there quite properly for scientific reasons. In fact one of the hypocrisies of world politics is, I believe, that the Russians in fact fly to their bases through South Africa, but not very much is heard about that. 
I would like to raise the question of the interchange of information under the Antarctic Treaty. I understand that there is great goodwill between scientists of various nations, including the Russians and the Australians in the Antarctic. That is as it ought to be. I think the vicissitudes of the climate and the common scientific challenge of the unknown there ensure that there are no apparent ideological differences. This is to be encouraged. Regrettably communist ideology interfere at the bureaucratic level. I think traditionally exchanges of information by the Soviets have always been behind time. I think the commissars must get involved at a bureaucratic level. In the 1971-72 Australian summer expedition Australian geologists were working in the Southern Prince Charles Mountains and made contact with a Soviet exploration team of geologists working in the same area. There were very cordial discussions between people who have a lot in common- both being in the Antarctic and both being geologists. I understand that whilst informally there are good relationships between the geologists of these countries there has not been any formal exchange of information, and that in fact the Soviet Union has not honoured its undertaking which was apparently given to that expedition and which was in accordance with the Treaty to provide Australia with this information. I hope that that situation will be remedied. One must ask whether the Soviet Union has anything to hide. I call upon the Soviet Union to make that information available. 
The question of resources has attracted a lot of interest I return to one of the areas to which I referred earlier, namely, minerals. I think we must be careful that we do not get rushed into the thought that these can be quickly exploited. The iron ore there is of a lower grade than that which is available in Australia. I think one could work out the Australian iron ore fields long before one needed to go to Antarctica and face the challenges of actually digging the material out of the ground, getting it over snow, setting up equipment to load and unload and in fact bringing it out of the Antarctic. I think such a scheme is many years away. There are problems of course with oil and gas exploration also. A vertical hole is drilled on-shore. In a year, because of the pressure of the ice, it will be a horizontal hole. There are enormous technical challenges, and I am sure they will be met although I do not think they will be met quickly. The areas of potential are tourism and of course the harvesting of the krill to which I referred earlier. That is where I think our efforts will need to lie. Additionally, of course, we have a responsibility to explore the Territory. We will be able to do that in an expanded way because of this Budget. 
I refer briefly to some comments made in the House by the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  on 20 October about the Antarctic Division Headquarters. He was speaking on the proposal recommended by the Standing Committee on Public Works to build a new complex of the Antarctic Division at Hobart. He said that it was not clear whether this Government would continue with Antarctic research. I have great respect for the honourable member's knowledge of C. J. Dennis's Australian poetry- I say that seriously- but I am afraid that his knowledge of the Antarctic leaves a little to be desired. He is wrong in that regard. The Government is committed. This Budget commits the Government to expansion in the areas of research in the Antarctic. The Government has an on-going program. 
-I agree with the honourable member for Casey who has in fact been in Antarctic waters, he has been to Macquarie Island. I am sure the people of Hobart are not fooled by comments like those made by the honourable member for Burke. 
-My question, which is directed to the Treasurer, concerns the minting of an Australian gold coin. The Treasurer will remember that I have made representations to him and have suggested to the Government that Australia should have a gold coin. Earlier in this session, in answer to a question from me on this subject, the Treasurer indicated that the issue of an Australian gold coin was under consideration. Does the Treasurer agree that the issue of a gold coin would be a profitable venture for the Government? Has the Government made a decision on this matter? Will Australia have a gold coin. 
-For a few brief minutes I would like to endorse some of the comments that have been made in this chamber tonight. First of all, I thank you,  Mr Speaker,  for the courtesy you have shown me and for the courtesy you have shown to the House. I think the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  summed up my feelings on the matter. Some who know more than I say that you are perhaps the greatest  Speaker  the House has known. 
I have enjoyed serving with the honourable member for Evans  (Mr Abel)  both on the back bench and particularly on the government members industry and commerce committee of which he was secretary. He served the back bench well, his constituents well, and that committee well. A great tribute has been paid to the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett),  and I endorse it. I wish to pay tribute also to two members of the Opposition. In this day and age too few Australians realise the things that members on both sides of the chamber have in common. Some people have a vested interest in pointing out our differences. I have had the privilege of serving on two parliamentary committees with the honourable member for Fremantle- the father of the House. They were the House of Representatives Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties and the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. I have enjoyed learning from his experience. I have enormous respect for him. I regard him as a distinguished and great Australian. I made that remark on one occasion at the opening ceremony of a building in my electorate, to which he was properly invited. Many people found it strange that an honourable member on this side of the House would pay a compliment to an honourable member on the other side of the House. As has been demonstrated tonight, there is much more in common between us than perhaps the community realises. 
The other honourable member of the House to whom I pay a tribute is an electoral neighbour of mine, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  He is a man who understands the needs, the problems and the aspirations of the people of the City of Prahran which we have served jointly. I have never had an argument with him about matters concerned with the electorate. I have received the greatest degree of cooperation from him. He has served his people well and he has served the people of Prahran well. Apart from our differences m political policy and philosophy, the thing that saddens me most is our disagreement about  The Glugs of Gosh  by C. J. Dennis. Perhaps we can sort out that disagreement in the future. 
I also pay a tribute tonight to one of the attendants who has served this House for approximately 14 years. I refer to Harry Ryan who has been an attendant in the public gallery for that period of time. He is a World War I veteran of Gallipoli. He recently returned to Europe on a holiday and, as one of his colleagues said, he picked up a few medals which he was meant to get when he was there the first time. People like Harry Ryan have served this Parliament well. Thank you,  Mr Speaker,  for giving me the opportunity to speak. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 19 October 1977: 
1 ) Who are the quota holders, and what are their respective entitlements by category, for the imports of apparel since the introduction of quotas in July 1 976! 
Have any quotas been transferred. If so, to whom and on what terms and conditions. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 19 October 1977: 
Who are the quota holders, and what are their respective entitlements by category, for the import of textiles since the introduction of quotas in December 1 974. 
Have any quotas been transferred; if so, to whom and on what terms and conditions. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 19 October 1977: 
How many pairs of shoes have been allowed to be imported into Australia under quota in each of the years since footwear has been subject to quota in October 1974? 
What are the names of persons, companies and businesses who presently hold quotas for footwear, and what were their respective entitlements in each year from October 1974? 
Have any quotas been transferred; if so, to whom, and on what terms and conditions? 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 19 October 1977: 
How many cars were allowed to be imported into Australia under quota during the periods when quotas were in operation in 1976 and 1977, inclusive of the quotas which became effective on 13 October 1977? 
What are the quotas by make or category of car? 
Who are the quota holders for quota periods during the years 1976 and 1977? 
How many cars were in bond, and what were their makes or categories, during the relevant quota periods? 
How many cars by make or category which were in bond at the time of the announcement of quotas subsequently became part of quotas? 
Have any quotas been transferred; if so, to whom, and on what terms and conditions? 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 19 October 1977: 
Will post offices and agencies of Australia Post accept travellers' cheques issued by Australian banks either for (a) purchases or (b) cash; if not, why not. 
I address my question to the Minister for Health who will remember issuing a challenge in May 1976 to the Australian Medical Association and the medical profession to introduce a voluntary system of professional standards of medical audit known as 'peer review'. Is the Minister satisfied with progress by the Australian Medical Association and the medical profession in this matter? Can the Minister also confirm whether the Association recommends to its members higher fees than those set by the Medical Fees Tribunal which sets medical benefit fees? 
I commend the Governor-General for his speech on the occasion of the opening of the Thirty-first Parliament. The Speech outlines the Government's program of action for the term of this Parliament and I identify myself with it strongly. Early in the speech the Governor-General said: 
After two years of hard work and constant achievement, Australians now look to the future with new found confidence. 
They know our nation's prospects are limitless, and that by working together Australians can overcome the great challenges of unemployment and inflation and restore our nation 's economy to full vitality. 
That is a challenge for all Australians. I ask that all Australians think of the sort of Australia that they want for today and for the future. What type of country are we to mould for ourselves? What son of industries do we want? What are we best at and what industries are most appropriate for the Australia of today and the future? What is our proper position in the world, recognising that we are basically a European enclave in the Asian region. What is our proper reaction to the pressures upon Australia from Asian countries for Australia to take more imports? These are the questions I would like to talk about tonight for they concern the type of Australia for the future. 
Where will the growth occur in our economy? The generally accepted definition of 'industries' includes tertiary, primary and manufacturing industries. The tertiary sector is split between the public and private sectors and further between the services and the private sector. The honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  earlier in this debate referred to the need for subcategorisation in relation to the impact of technology on the information areas in the tertiary sector and perhaps there is some good sense in that. However, what industries are we going to encourage in Australia and what is the place for each? I welcomed this statement in the Governor-General's Speech: 
Essential to my Government's economic program is the growth of Australian industry, the development of our resources, and a renewed emphasis on growth in exports. These hold the key to greater prosperity and the creation of more jobs. 
Let us look briefly at industries case by case. The primary industry sector is under great pressure and many farmers are facing bankruptcy. In the beef industry particularly some farmers have had losses for the last three, four and in some cases five years. What are the pressures on them for the creation of more jobs? I suggest that farmers are wishing to increase productivity and will in the future employ less labour. In the tertiary area, the private sector, which includes the banking, insurance and travel industries, because of high wage rates is using less labour and more machines, computers and electronic data processing. In the last decade the proportion of the total working population employed in the manufacturing sector has shrunk from about 29 per cent to 20  percent. 
I would like now to comment on the interdependence of all these sectors of the economy. I get sick and tired of primary producer organisations and free traders attacking the manufacturing sector. Farmers and farming organisations cannot have their cake and eat it too. They cannot expect consumers in the city who buy at least half of their produce to drop their standard of living and put themselves out of work because the farmers want less protection of Australian industry. If the farming organisations succeed in their  point of view  they will throw Australians in the cities out of jobs and further reduce their own market, so it is a self-defeating exercise. Let us look at the pressures on the nation from outside. There are pressures from Asian countries upon us to take more goods. The large growth in the world's work force will occur in the region immediately around Australia and we have to decide what is our place in that part of the world. 
I turn now to the Australian scene to look at the nature of and growth in the population and the work force. Our population is growing very slowly- it is almost stagnant- but here there is an inherent contradiction because the work force is still growing. It means that despite virtually no population growth there is a large growth in the work force. I have looked at a number of estimates and between 100,000 and 170,000 jobs will have to be created every year for the next five years to absorb those people wanting to enter the work force. That is a challenge for governments, industries, the unions and the whole nation alike. It affects our population, our family policies and our immigration programs. Where will these jobs come from? 
I believe that the statement I referred to earlier about encouraging and placing renewed emphasis on exports is one of the keys to the solution of this problem and we will have to develop programs the like of which we have not seen before. The labour market is significantly different now from what it was in the 1950s and 1960s. Employers are seeking to reduce and /or contain labour costs. Those without qualifications in the work force face an unusual and different labour market. Technological progress is compatible with and supports growth in job opportunities and full employment but labour and capital will need to be flexible and, most importantly, there will need to be sufficient investment. Some informed people forecast that developed countries will find it difficult to return to past economic growth rates and will continue to face higher levels of unemployment into the first half of the 1980s. I would like Australia to be unique and prove to the rest of the world that this is not so. Rather than follow we have a unique opportunity to lead the way. 
I referred earlier to the developing countries ' population and labour force, the growth in which is changing dramatically. At the turn of the century the world's labour force was growing by 50 million each decade. Today it is growing by 50 million each year and most of this growth is occurring in the developing countries. Workers in industrialised countries at the end of the war represented one-third of the world's labour force. Today they represent less than one-quarter and by the end of this century they will represent less than one-seventh. The Third World's labour force in Asia alone, the part of the world in which Australia is placed geographically, will exceed that of all the industrialised countries by the end of the century. This dramatic change in the distribution of the world 's labour force, together with the changing nature of Australia's labour force, has important implications not only for our domestic policies but also for international trading relationships and our population policy. 
The surplus labour in the world today seeks to move to the richer countries, and this is particularly so in Europe, while capital seeks to flow to the poorer countries in search of cheap labour. This is the paradox that is created. We have to define the sectors which will generate our wealth and employment in the future, and they may be different from those that have generated it in the past, but we have a responsibility to generate jobs for Australians. Governments will become more concerned with the redirection of resources and the pressures for more jobs, particularly at the unskilled end of production, will create further problems. Our present generation of young people has grown up in the most prosperous period Australia has known but perhaps they face more problems. Young people have an enormous expectation that jobs will be available in the community. We as a community have properly led them to that expectation yet society itself is not rewarding them with jobs that are available. We have an education system that is turning out students of whom about 20 per cent cannot read or write and are not trained even for an unskilled job such as driving a truck because to do that they need to read a street directory and street signs. 
Let us now look at the nature of the work force and the effect of wage policy on resource allocation. We are short of skilled labour in this country and this is something which honourable members on both sides of the House have said repeatedly. I ask the Parliament: Recognising that we are short of skilled labour, why is this so? There is a common view that it is because we do not have adequate facilities for training people for skilled labour but I believe that we need to question this view. We may in fact have adequate training institutions but because of wage relativities people trained in a trade and other technical areas leave that area either on graduating or qualifying or before they graduate or qualify to go into another area of activity. The implications for policy making are enormous. We need to ask ourselves whether we should spend millions of dollars of capital on more technical training institutions or whether they are adequate but people are merely transferring out of this area of activity in the economy. 
Let us look at some wage rates that indicate that this is so. The minimum legal award for a builder's labourer is $185 a week whereas the legal minimum award for a metal trades fitterhis wage used to be the bench mark- is $144.10. 
There is some over-award payment that can be added to that. Those wages of $185 for the builder's labourer and $144.10 for the metal trades fitter are the amounts to which indexation applies. Indexation applies to the actual award wage, not to the over-award wage, and therefore the difference is permanently locked into the wage structure and the gap is widening. Truck drivers, clerks and government employees are paid more than the metal trades fitter. Indexation has exacerbated the situation. Let us look at an Australian Government public servant in his first year of employment. He receives a wage of $ 168. 15. So rather than spend four years training and doing an apprenticeship to become a fitter, one can join the Australian Public Service and get $168.15, which is $24 more than a fitter's wage. After five years in the Australian Public Service the disparity is $44.45, the minimum wage being $186.55. 
What is happening is that wage policy is determining the allocation of resources and young people when looking towards their future will not be encouraged into the skilled trades areas. This is a real problem for the community. I am convinced that equal pay, junior pay rates and penalty rates- regardless of the moral issues involved in each of them- are creating unemployment in this country. We are getting to the stage where those in jobs are very well off and those who are unemployed have to suffer. The effect of wage rates on policy, to which I have referred, has another effect on the manufacturing sector. In some factories in Australia today there is a shortage of skilled labour. For instance, when the North West Shelf development goes into its final stages some 3,000 to 15,000 skilled metal trades workers will be needed. Some factories in this country are already short of such workers, and when that demand arises what will be the situation in the factories? 
The difficulty that the Government faces is that the independent Conciliation and Arbitration Commission by its wage policy is determining allocation of resources- human resources and resources of capital- in this country. I commend the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Moore)  who spoke earlier today about resource usage. The matters I have been talking about tonight relate to the use of resources. I believe that the Government must have more say in determining wage policy. The Government cannot abdicate to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission the power to determine where resources, both human and capital, should go. By a ridiculous combination of constitutional politics we have got ourselves into the position where the 
Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has power to direct resources and the Government through no fault of its own is virtually powerless to stop it. 
-I will let the honourable member's useless interjection rest in the air where it properly belongs. I welcomed the energy debate that took place today and I commend the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  for his part in that debate. Energy is one of the challenges for the future. I welcomed what the Minister said about liquefied petroleum gas and his thoughts on encouraging more experimentation in this area by government car fleets and others. Let us look now at the effect on resources of the problems of replacing Bass Strait oil. Unless we find another oil field the size of the Bass Strait fields, by 1985 we will have a serious problem in paying for our current imports. We will need to generate $2 billion to $3 billion at current rates of consumption. 
On the credit side of the ledger, we may have exports from the North West Shelf, uranium, LPG and other energy sources. But the European Economic Community is looking more inward and the world trade pattern seems to be slowing down. Demand is not as great as it has been in the past. We have to look at our energy resources and at what our policy is to be in relation to them. We must not lull ourselves into the belief that our gas, coal and uranium exports will necessarily make up the $3 billion-odd needed to pay for our imports in the mid-1980s. I believe that we need to consider getting ready to exploit our coal resources by the processes of liquefaction. It is not a matter of taking our high-grade coals- I think that we ought to export them- but we ought to look at the lower grade coals and perhaps at our shale oil deposits and consider whether we ought to have a national policy, and include that in our energy policy, of having a plant to make liquids. To liquefy coal will cost twice as much as it costs to import oil but, for reasons of defence or resource allocation, it may be the thing to do. 
A lot of people say that there is a search for new technology in this area and that a big breakthrough will be announced in the near future. I suggest that perhaps the technology is there but that the major costs of liquefaction will not be in the chemical processes but rather in the cost of the mine itself, the plant, the infrastructure, the ports and the capital needed to build such a project. Let us look at what is happening in South Africa at the present time. There is a new coal liquefaction project there which has just entered the construction stage. It is costing between $2.8 billion and $3 billion. It may be uneconomic in pure terms but I believe that it is the sort of project that we have to look at to see whether it is appropriate for Australia. It will not be in the technology area that the breakthrough will come. We have to look at the cost of plant and equipment. In conclusion, I strongly support the motion that the Address-in-Reply be agreed to. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs concerning illegal immigration to Northern Australia. Is the Minister aware that numbers of Papua New Guinea citizens are over-staying their traditional, normal and usual visits to Australia and have settled permanently in northern Australia, particularly in Queensland? Has the Minister's Department investigated this matter? Does the Minister have an estimate of how many such people are over-staying in Australia? Have they come to Australia under any special arrangements? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 14 March 1978: 
In view of the answer to my question without notice to the then Treasurer on 8 September 1977  (Hansard,  page 879), regarding the minting of a gold coin, (a) what was the outcome of studies of the technical and legal aspects of this proposition and (b) when is it expected that such a coin will be in circulation. 
I think the issue raised by the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  has to be considered in the light of the right of members of this House to debate any issue in the national interest. Anything he said must not be taken to inhibit proper debate in this place where this Parliament has proper constitutional power to debate a matter. I do not think he is questioning the constitutional power of this House to deal with matters of this sort. I refer to Erskine May's  Parliamentary Practice.  On page 173 he refers to breaches of privilege and contempts. He refers to complaints against members or officers in either House; that is the House of Commons or the House of Lords. The concluding paragraph states: 
When a member, officer, or servant of either House has been guilty of any offence either against the other House or against its members, which would be punishable by the latter if committed by one of its own members, officers, or servants, it is the duty of the House to which such offender belongs, upon being apprised of the fact, to take proper measures to inquire into and punish the offence in a proper manner. 
Arguing by analogy, I believe it is the duty of the House to make up its mind as to what it will do in the public interest in debating matters or considering questions of privilege relating to members of this House, acting along the lines referred to earlier by the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass). 
-My question, which is directed to the Prime Minister, refers to Press reports to the effect that the Prime Minister yesterday stated that he would take whatever actions are necessary to protect the export trade in live sheep. If section 45D of the Trade Practices Act is not wide enough to cover the conduct and circumstances of the union bans on live sheep exports at present occurring, will the Prime Minister consider changing that section by widening its provisions to cover that sort of conduct which at present is affecting Australia's export trade? 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 13 April 1978: 
With reference to his answers to questions Nos 1820, 1822 and 1823  (Hansard,  8 November 1977, pages 3110 and 3111) concerning quota holders in respect of apparel, textile, footwear and passenger car imports, has he decided to publish the names of quota holders, their individual quota entitlements and details of quotas transferred; if so, when will this information become publicly available. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 1 5 March 1 978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the report in the  Canberra Times  of 8 March 1978 by Frank Cranston where he stated that a proper sharing of the Torres Strait waters between Australia and Papua New Guinea leave within the Port Moresby administration the Queensland islands which lie to the south of the Papua New Guinea coast, that a regime is being sought with Papua New Guinea which will ensure protection for the traditional fishing rights of the people on the disputed islands without circumscribing the generality of Port Moresby's prerogatives down to an agreed median line and that although the Governments have agreed in principle over the issue, the drafting of the legislation giving force to it is expected to prove difficult; if so, is there any substance in the report. 
) Is there an agreed median line. 
Is he having discussions with his counterpart in Papua New Guinea concerning a 200-mile fishing and economic zone. 
If so, how will the 200-mile zones be dealt with in Torres Strait. 
Is the Government concerned that the 200-mile economic zone concept is not applicable in the Torres Strait area because Australia already has the right to fish in this area. 
-I speak tonight in support of the legislation before the House, namely, the Fisheries Amendment Bill, the Continental Shelf (Living Natural Resources) Amendment Bill and the Whaling 
Amendment Bill. The Fisheries legislation extends the Australian fishing jurisdiction to 200 miles beyond the low water mark by creating a 200-mile fishing zone. This is a totally new development for Australia. The idea and concept of a 200-mile fishing zone is part of the development of international law on 200-irrile zones. I believe that the legislation before the House tonight is the first step towards Australia ultimately declaring a 200 mile exclusive economic zone covering living and non-living resources. The exclusive economic zone concept is an important one and emerges from the United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea. The informal composite negotiating text of the Sixth Session in aU probability Will be the basis upon which nations declare these zones in the future, even if there is not ultimate international agreement to that convention. 
The concepts raised go beyond the fisheries legislation which we have before us tonight: For instance, they extend to the question of the exploitation of petroleum and other hydrocarbon resources- manganese nodules, perhaps, and the seabed extraction of minerals. Perhaps in the fullness of time amendments to other legislation Will be necessary, such as the Seas and Submerged Lands Act, the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act and the Whaling Act, for which an amending Bill is before us tonight, as is an amending BUI to the Continental Shelf (Living Natural Resources) Act. Perhaps this will extend even to the Coral Sea Islands Act. 
At an international level this fishing legislation will involve negotiations with a number of neighbouring countries because, in aU probability, we will have overlapping zones. Currently the Government is negotiating with Papua New Guinea concerning the Torres Strait border and economic zones and fishing zones wil be a part of those negotiations. We Will need to negotiate with the Solomon Islands, with Indonesia and with France concerning New Caledonia and the New Hebrides. I am confident that these will be amicable and successful negotiations but, remembering the history of boundaries, we know that one has to protect one's national interests to the ultimate. I look forward to the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  on the current state of negotiations with Papua New Guinea on the Torres Strait border, which I think is due to be presented within a fortnight. 
Currently Australia claims only a three mile territorial sea. This is a matter of history. Initially nations claimed three miles because the old range of a cannon shot from a sailing warship was three miles. Now it is commonly accepted at international law that 12 miles is a proper claim of territorial seas. It is my view that Australia should forthwith and immediately make a claim of 12 miles of territorial sea. I shall be very interested to see the outcome of negotiations with Papua New Guinea concerning the Torres Strait area because I believe that Australia clearly has the right to claim a 12 mile territorial sea around its islands, both inhabited and uninhabited, in that area. The question of where to draw the base lines- the lines from which the 200 miles extend- is important to this legislation, to the petroleum legislation and to the seas and submerged lands legislation. I believe that we ought to be adopting a fairly progressive approach rather than a conservative approach to the question of where we draw those base lines. 
A number of matters need to be considered. The Commonwealth has power to declare historic bays, I think under the Seas and Submerged Lands Act. I believe that we ought to consider declaring Shark Bay in Western Australia such a bay, as well as the Spencer Gulf and St Vincent Gulf. Where we draw the closing lines of this is important. 
-I hear the honourable member for Denison supporting what I have to say. It might interest him to know that a fairly conservative decision was made in relation to Tasmania, where the Maria Island in Great Oyster Bay was excluded from the drawing of a base line. In fact, the internal waters of Tasmania were lessened by that decision. I believe that we have to take the maximum that we can under international law in such claims and, perhaps, even redraw that particular base line. The new informal composite negotiating text will allow us to take these generous interpretations. In fact, so far as Western Australia is concerned, it will enable us- because of the definitions concerning reefs near islands- to claim parts of the Scott Reef that we presently cannot claim under international law. Honourable members might remember that some time ago a Russian ship was illegally in that area. There are parts of that area over which perhaps we do not have jurisdiction. The progressive interpretation of the base line rules wil enable us to claim jurisdiction. 
Another area where the question of base lines is vital is in the Great Barrier Reef area of north Queensland. Whilst at the present time there is a 12-mUe fishing zone, part of the Reef itself still is, as I understand it, in international waters. Whilst there is an International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution of the Sea by Oil concerning and covering the Great Barrier Reef, there are probably still parts of the Reef- whilst the islands and keys come under the Queensland Coast Islands Act- over which we do not have jurisdiction. I doubt that all the Reef area is in fact pan of Queensland and part of our territorial sea at the present time. So, therefore, we have to decide whether to draw a base line around the Great Barrier Reef or on the eastern side. I believe quite frankly that we have to make the maximum claims possible under international law. The Great Barrier Reef must be within the exclusive jurisdiction of Australia. We must make, as I have said, the maximum possible claims. 
The foreign policy implications of this fishing legislation and the ultimate zone legislation that, in the fullness of time I trust will follow, are quite enormous. The world is looking at us. It is worth reflecting that the rest of the world sees us, and particularly our near neighbours, as a European enclave in the Asian region of the globe. Those are the facts with which we must live and which we must understand. We must recognise our responsibilities. The world is looking at us: It is looking at the resources that we have and at the fish that we have. The honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi),  who I thought made a sensible contribution to the debate, talked about the other nations that are fishing in the area already. The world is sharing our resources at present. We need to determine our approach to them. I must admit that I disagree with the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  because I believe it is totally unnecessary. I wonder whether the honourable gentleman in fact has read the second reading speech of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  In his amendment, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, states that first priority should be given to local industry. If he reads the Minister's speech, he will find that the Minister stated: 
. Australians are unable or perhaps do not wish to harvest all of the total allowable catches, we will be under an obligation to allow other nationals to take that surplus. 
He stated further: 
Accordingly, we will have the right to determine who fishes these surplus stocks and under what terms and conditions. 
But the most important point is that only when Australians are not in a position to exploit a fishery will recourse be had to foreign expertise. That is why I wonder why the Deputy Leader of the Opposition moved his amendment. Of course we will have maximum Australian participation. He asked the Government to spell out its policies. 
Well, the policy is in the Minister's second reading speech. It is there for the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition to read and to understand. Incidentally, I thought I noted some conflict between what the honourable member for Hawker and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said about joint ventures. I thought that the honourable member for Hawker took a more liberal and, quite frankly, a more sensible interpretation. I wonder whether he really supports the amendment. 
The foreign policy implications to which I have referred are wide. We need to be outwardlooking. We need to look out towards the world. We have a responsibility to provide to the world these resources- these fish- in our sea. We cannot be selfish. Some honourable members who have spoken in this debate have said that these resources are part of the common heritage of mankind. Whilst I do not adopt that definition necessarily, I believe that we must be aware of our responsibilities in this area, in the same way that we are aware of our responsibilities in relation to uranium, coal, iron ore, et cetera. We have a moral responsibility in this continent and in this part of the world. Australia has a small population and it is rich in resources. As I have mentioned, it is an enclave of Europeans in the Asian region. We have a moral responsibility to sell to the world on fair terms and conditions what we have. We must recognise our international obligations and responsibilities as well as protect our own interests. We must remember that the history books are full of cases in which people went and took things that others would not sell them on fair terms. That is why I believe that Australia needs to be outward looking. 
We must also remember the position in relation to our negotiations with the European Economic Community. I think that the EEC, with its attitudes to trade and its protective barriers, is becoming inward looking. It is looking back towards the middle ages. Europe is starting to look inward rather than outward. If this happens in Europe, Austrafia must provide an example in relation to our resources offish in the 200-mile off-shore area and share those resources with the world. We seek access to markets in Europe for our agricultural products and want the Multilateral Trade Negotiations to include them. We must allow other countries to fish off the Australian coast on fair terms and conditions, and as the Minister recognises, we must protect the Australian fishing industry. However, we must recognise also that that industry has a responsibility to grasp the challenge before it, the challenge now made available to it to exploit these resources. It is important that the industry does this in the national interest. 
The honourable member for Hawker referred to the question of surveillance. At this stage, surveillance is vital. If Australia is to claim jurisdiction over this area, we must have the ability to survey the area and to enforce that jurisdiction. The honourable member mentioned a patrol in which he took part in the Northern Territory. I was on that patrol with him. In fact, I think that at one stage the honourable member even took control of the helm of the boat and distinguished himself in that task. In all seriousness, I believe that we must upgrade in a major way what we are doing in regard to air and sea surveillance. I understand that at present in the north of Australia we have one Dakota aircraft- on the day we were there one engine on that aircraft was inoperative and another one had to be flown from Sydney- and three Tracker aircraft, I think. 
-The honourable member for St George tells me that that would be the maximum number of Tracker aircraft. Probably one of the aircraft would be out of service all the time. We also have two or three Navy patrol boats. That is a totally inadequate force to service our national interest in the north of Australia, and it must be upgraded. 
I would recommend as a minimum a doubling of the 15 patrol boats which have been ordered, and in conjunction with that we must buy aircraft that can coordinate and co-operate in a tandem operation with these patrol boats in air and sea surveillance. That is vital. 
-The cost is unimportant. We must protect Australia 's national interests. 
-The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  must realise, as we all must realise, that we must protect Australia's national interest. I believe that this can be done at a modest cost. I am glad to have the support of the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  and the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean).  In the time remaining to me, I would like to comment on some of the points made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  in regard to the case of Oteri and Oteri v. the Queen. The honourable member is a knowledgeable gentleman and most of what he said tonight showed that we can have a bipartisan debate in this Parliament. I challenge the members of the Press gallery listening to the debate to report in the Press tomorrow that there has been, in fact, a bipartisan debate in this Parliament, and that both parties can agree in part. I refer to his comments on Oteri and Oteri v. the Queen. He was talking about that in relation to the jurisdiction of the Privy Council on appeals from State courts. 
I do not think that is the issue concerning that case. I think the issue is that the Government needs to take a look at the situation of the Admiralty jurisdiction. In that case as I recall- I stand to be corrected- the Privy Council held that a 1958 United Kingdom or British statute, the Theft Act, applied in the Australian Admiralty jurisdiction and that was because of previous legislation. To me that is totally unacceptable. I believe that we must look at the basis of the Admiralty jurisdiction in Australia; we must examine the situation whether the State and Federal courts and which of them have jurisdiction and, if need be, negotiate with the States and act under the Statute of Westminster to enact Australian Admiralty jurisdiction. I refer the Deputy Leader of the Opposition to the Statute of Westminster which is clear. It says in section 3: 
. that the Parliament of a dominion - 
That is, Australia: 
. has full power to make laws having extra-territorial operation. 
In sub-clause 2 there is clear provision for power to repeal in this case the Admiralty jurisdiction or amend any such Act of the United Kingdom Parliament. So, what he said I believe is incorrect inasmuch as we clearly have the power; it is a matter of sitting down and working out that jurisdiction. I am pleased to support the legislation before the House. 
-I speak today as the late  Sir Robert  Menzies' local member and as one whose electorate now includes part of  Sir Robert's  former electorate. Much attention has been given, and properly, to his role as Prime 
Minister and statesman, but I want to talk of his belief in the role of private members in this place. He had a passionate belief in the responsibility and the role of individual members of the House of Representatives. He regarded himself as a constituent, and felt that lus views, which were still strong and current, were no more important than anybody else's views. That is the measure of the man. I am grateful for his interest in me as his local member. A man of his status and experience need not have taken an interest in the new local member but he did. 
He had a great belief in this House. He was a child of it. He became a giant in it and we talk of his legend today. He was a humble person. There was a story in last Saturday's Melbourne  Sun  by journalist Bruce Wilson who recalled getting  Sir Robert's  autograph at the Windsor Hotel as a young man many years ago. I know of another story, that of a 12 year old girl who drove him up and down the elevator at the Windsor on two or three occasions, with an anxious mother waiting. That was the measure of the man again, that he would let this little girl take him up and down in the elevator. I know that story to be true for the girl is now my wife. 
He had a continuing interest in current events, in the progress of Australia and the future of Australia. I am sorry to say that, whilst I agree with what most of the honourable member for Wills said, he was wrong in one regard:  Sir Robert  Menzies was still current.  His  thoughts were still current.  His  belief was in the future of Australia. But, whilst he had those views, he was not anxious to impose them on anybody; they were there for those who wished to benefit from them.  His  belief in this House lasted with him until the very end. When he had finished his day's reading he listened to the broadcasts of this House.  His  interest in this place was paramount and with him to the very end. The spirit of Menzies was rekindled last week. Let us reflect in the weeks and months ahead and consider an appropriate national memorial or monument to him. Finally I refer to his family. In doing so  Mr Speaker,  I note that his daughter Heather and three of his grandchildren are in the gallery here today. It is not easy for the family of a public figure to share that public figure with the nation, but I thank Dame Pattie and his son Ken and daughter Heather for allowing the nation to share their sadness and to pay tribute to its famous son last Friday. 
My question to the Treasurer concerns the Foreign Takeovers Act and the guidelines for administering that Act. Does the Treasurer agree with recent reported comments by a lawyer from the CRA group at a conference in Brisbane last week that the present Act and guidelines act as a disincentive to further Australian ownership? What matters does the Treasurer take into account in determining who has actual control of a company for purposes of the foreign takeovers legislation? What factors does he consider in determining what is the national interest under that legislation and the guidelines? 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence I present an interim report on Australia, Antarctica and the Law of the Sea. I seek leave of the House to make a short statement in connection with that report. 
Leave granted. 
-In speaking to this report which was prepared by the Territorial Boundaries Sub-Committee of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, I note that this is the third committee report tabled in this House today. The bipartisan nature of our report reflects the attitude to the work of parliamentary committees in Canberra whereby the two political parties can agree and make contributions for the national good. I would hope that this would be recognised in the reporting by the media of the reports which are tabled today. 
In presenting the interim report of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on Australia, Antarctica and the Law of the Sea, I express appreciation to the  Deputy Chairman  of the main Committee,  Senator the  Honourable Reginald Bishop, who chaired most of the final meetings of the Committee which approved the report, in the absence overseas of the  Chairman, Senator the  Honourable  Sir Magnus  Cormack. I also pay tribute to  Sir Magnus  for his help and support in the work of the Sub-Committee and wish him well in his impending retirement. I pay tribute to my colleagues on the Sub-Committee. The honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi),  an Opposition member who was a member of the sub-committee in the previous Parliament and this one, is a man with great knowledge in this area. Honourable members should note that a member of the Government is paying tribute to a member of the Opposition. 
-I notice a 'hear, hear' from another member of the Committee, the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson)  who represents the National Country Party. So, it is an all-Party report and I pay tribute to my colleagues of all parties on the Committee. In March 1977 the Joint Committee gave the SubCommittee a reference in the following terms: 
To consider investigate and report generally on the effect on Australia's maritime boundaries of current developments of the Law of the Sea including extension of the territorial sea, fishing and/or economic zones including exploitation of resources and particularly how these developments might affect Australia's Antarctic Territory and the problem of pelagic fisheries in the EEZ. 
Last year the Sub-Committee commenced to receive evidence and submissions, the work being recommenced after the election and the reconstitution of the main Committee on 7 March 1978. The Committee is aware that developments in the field of Law of the Sea have not been finalised. Before an acceptable regime or rules of international law can be established more negotiations must be undertaken. 
Members will be aware that as I speak the three Bills which will amend the Fisheries, Continental Shelf, and Whaling Acts respectively, which were recently passed by this House, are still the subject of debate in the Senate. 
The seventh session of the Third Law of the Sea Conference, which was expected to be the final session, from which a convention would be drafted, has been adjourned to meet again in New York in August. The committee felt that an interim report should be presented to outline some of the difficulties involved and to show the progress made to date on the development of a Law of the Sea regime as it affects Australia and the Australian Antarctic Territory. 
The interim report traces early developments in attempts to regulate both the use of the world's oceans as a highway for shipping and utilisation of the ocean's resources both living and non-living. These efforts culminated in the establishment by the United Nations, of the Third Conference on the Law of the Sea. Australia has attended all the sessions of this Conference. The first session of the Third Conference was held in New York in 1973, the seventh session as mentioned has just recently been adjourned in Geneva. It is hoped that one of the members of the Committee, the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr),  will attend that meeting as an observer. Notwithstanding this there has been some general international acceptance of some of the new developments. The most important of these is the almost universal acceptance of the right of coastal States to declare 200 mile exclusive economic zones or fishing zones around their coastlines. 
The interim report deals with a number of Law of the Sea matters directly affecting Australia, including Australian existing policy; foreseeable changes in Australian legislation; effects on the Australian fishing industry, exploitation of minerals; surveillance; Antarctica and foreign policy implications. The report because of its interim nature does not contain recommendations for future Government policy. The report does, however, put forward a number of suggestions and conclusions including: 
The committee is satisfied that the Government is treating the question of the Law of the Sea Conference with the degree of seriousness and granting it the degree of priority which this subject deserves. The committee is not convinced, however, that the Government has given this issue the publicity which is necessary if the issues are to be understood by the general public The committee feels the Government should prepare a White Paper which in addition to stating the Government's policy will also canvass the enure issue of the Law of the Sea Conference, and the Government hopes for a new multilateral Convention resulting from the Conference; 
-I note that the honourable member for St George applauds that comment. Other suggestions and conclusions included: 
The advantages of establishing a joint CommonwealthStateIndustry committee to prepare guidelines for joint venture fishing enterprises; 
Doubt that sea bed mining excluding hydro carbon developments will be undertaken in Australian waters in the foreseeable future; 
Necessity for international agreement on the exploitation of the resources of the Antarctic; 
Need for a co-ordinated policy on future surveillance arrangements. 
A map entitled 'Australian Maritime Boundaries' is published with the report. I believe that it is one of the first maps showing the likely 200 mile zones. The lines on this map are not intended to prejudge any negotiations between nations. It is published to show the important nature of the issues involved. I trust that the new procedure for parliamentary reports as announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in this House on 25 May will be adopted regarding this report, namely, that within six months there will be a ministerial statement. I commend the report to the House. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and concerns refugees. Has the Minister seen reports that a refugee distress ship, the  Cat Loader  will shortly commence relief work in the Indo-China Sea? What is his attitude to the work of this ship? Will it affect the number of refugees likely to come to Australia? Will the Australian Navy cooperate with the ship and give it supplies if that becomes necessary? Additionally, does the Minister expect the number of Chinese refugees coming to Australia to increase as a result of civil unrest in Vietnam? 
I raise tonight an alarming example of an extortion racket, a union ripoff. Large amounts could be involved. This abuse by some union officials at the Melbourne Exhibition Buildings is an attack on the freedom of individuals to carry on business and an attack on the liberty of the subject. At the recent Australian Furniture Fashion Fair held at the Melbourne Exhibition Buildings, standholders were preparing and building their stands. Apparently officials from the Operative Painters and Decorators Union and the Building and Industrial Workers Union checked all people working on stands to see whether they were union members. If they were not members and did not join up, they were told that work would stop. They were given the opportunity of joining the Painters and Decorators Union for $43 and the BWIU for $37. This is union blackmail. 
I am told this is not the only show at the Exhibition Buildings at which these standover tactics are used. There are over 20 exhibitions planned at the buildings in 1978 and one. can assume by taking an average number of stands and a proportion of shows that a total figure to the order of $ 100,000 could be involved. What the unions are after is the money, the fast buck. Officials visited standholders every half hour to check that only union labour was involved. The threat is that, if one does not pay up the show will not go on. 
The honourable member for Parramatta said: 'That is right'. He is proud of it. He ought to be ashamed of himself. They are clever enough to stay away from shows like the recent yachting show because clubs and other community type organisations are involved. I imagine they will be at it again before the next motor show. 
The are subtle. They attack in those critical days just before the show. I understand that other unions could be involved and I have reports that the Amalgamated Society of Joiners and Carpenters is involved. If a family business is involved it makes little difference. Family companies can have one director work free but the rest have to join up or else. If a small business has four or five people working on a stand a blackmail payment can be over $200. This is an attack by unscrupulous union officials on small businesses- businesses which at the time of that show were just recovering from the crippling power strike and looking for new business. 
Businesses are not allowed to prepare, paint or erect their own stands. They cannot even do it themselves. The next thing will be that if we are mowing our own lawns they will want us to join a union. It is a disgrace that this is happening in the centre of Melbourne. I call on the Trades Hall Council and responsible union officials to have this disgraceful behaviour stopped. I am sure that responsible union officials and unionists alike would be as horrified as I am of this frightful behaviour. I say to responsible unionists that this is what irresponsible union officials are doing in their name; they are bringing the union movement into contempt. 
I call on responsible unionists to recognise these corrupt actions being done in their name. I call on them to remember them at union election time. I ask the rank and file to exercise the opportunity this Government has given them, under our secret ballot legislation, to get rid of these sorts of officials that give unions a bad name. I also call on employers who are threatened to stand up and take action under section 45D of the Trade Practices Act. This is the type of abuse of power by union officials that brings the union movement on the whole into disrepute. I call on responsible unionists to act. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 26 May 1 978: 
1 ) What has been the cost of maternity leave in his Department during the years (a) 1976 and (b) 1977, and (c) in the period January 1 978 to date. 
What was the total hours of leave in respect of these employees. 
How many employees have resigned or retired within one month of the end of the leave period in each of the periods. 
What sum was paid for maternity leave for the (a) first, ( b ) second and (c) third child in each of the periods. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 25 May 1978: 
1 ) Does the Commonwealth Savings Bank allocate funds for housing loans amongst the States on a pro-rata basis; if so, is it done on an annual basis. 
) If it is not done annually, on what basis is it done. 
What sums were allocated to each State for the years (a) 1975,(b) 1976and(c) 1977. 
Is the sum allocated to Victoria disproportionate to other States' allocations; if so, what is the reason. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 25 May 1978: 
1 ) What are the lending rates currently being charged by the Commonwealth Development Bank on new business for term loans ( a ) under $ 1 00,000 and ( b ) over $ 1 00,000. 
Are these interest rates in accord with Government policy on interest rates. 
What are the lending rates currently being charged by the Commonwealth Development Bank on new equipment finance for businesses on (a) new goods and (b) used goods. 
If these rates are flat rates what is the effective rate of interest and are the rates in accord with Government policy on interest rates. 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
1 ) What has been the cost of maternity leave in his Department during the years (a) 1976 and (b) 1977, and (c) in the period January 1 978 to date. 
What was the total hours of leave in respect of these employees. 
How many employees have resigned or retired within one month of the end of the leave period in each of the periods. 
What sum was paid for maternity leave for the (a) first, (b) second and (c) third child in each of the periods. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 8 June 1978: 
How many holders of pensioner health benefit cards are there at present in Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science the following question, upon notice, on 25 May 1978: 
Is it feasible during winter months to add to Bureau of Meteorology weather forecasts a chill factor to indicate the degree of wind coldness that might be anticipated in the forecast period; if so, in what cities, towns or states would such a chill factor forecast be appropriate? 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
1 ) What has been the cost of maternity leave in his Department during the years (a) 1 976 and (b) 1 977, and (c) in the period January 1978 to date. 
What was the total hours of leave in respect of these employees. 
How many employees have resigned or retired within one month of the end of the leave period in each of the periods. 
What sum was paid for maternity leave for the (a) first, ( b) second and (c) third child in each of the periods. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
1 ) Are 2 of the main navigation aids on the main SydneyMelbourne air route at Albury and Williamsdale out of order and are pilots operating on back up emergency aids. 
If so, (a) will he take steps to have these aids restored as soon as possible and (b) will he assure travellers on this route that they are in no danger. 
-In this House earlier this year I revealed a union extortion racket that was being carried on at the Exhibition Buildings in Melbourne. This week standholders are completing preparations for the  Herald-Sun  Home Show. I regret to inform the House that, to quote an informant today, 'the bludgers are at it again'. The racket is still going on. At this critical time before the show opens, officials from the Operative Painters and Decorators Union, the Building Workers Industrial Union and the Carpenters Union are circulating throughout the buildings, threatening workers and standholders that if they do not join a union their part of the show will not go on. 
These bully gangs of officials circulate in groups of three or more and intimidate decent Australians wanting to get on with the job. One trick is to threaten to cut off power to those stands not built by union labour. On one stand where a small amount of wallpaper was being put on a wall a man doing the job was told: 'The power will be cut off if you do not employ a union paperhanger'. Families are not allowed to work on the family business stand and small businesses are being attacked. Another informant today said to me: 'Wholesale standover tactics are being used '. I have heard of one businessman who some time ago was forced to join a union at the Exhibition Buildings in these circumstances. When he tried to exercise his rights and go to a union meeting he was denied entry. 
These few officials bring the whole union movement into disgrace. They want to have their cake and eat it too. I say tonight to all standholders, businessmen and workmen at the 
Exhibition Buildings who are preparing for the Melbourne Home Show: 'Do not give in to these union bullies. When they approach you, ask them their names and addresses and then contact the Industrial Relations Bureau'. The community demands that these illegal and improper practices stop. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 25 May 1978: 
1) Do public hospitals bill, either individually or by bulk billing (a) Medibank, (b) Medibank Private and (c) private health funds for (i) public patients and (ii) intermediate or other private patients. 
If so, what sums were involved for each State in (a) 1976-77 and (b) 1977-78 to date. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 25 May 1978: 
1 ) What were the total footwear imports from the date of introduction of quotas to 28 February 1 978. 
What is the anticipated total at the end of this quota year. 
Does the quota system reduce imports or allow them to increase. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 26 May 1 978: 
1 ) What has been the cost of maternity leave in his Department during the years (a) 1976 and (b) 1977, and (c) in the period January 1 978 to date. 
What was the total hours of leave in respect of these employees. 
How many employees have resigned or retired within one month of the end of the leave period in each of the periods. 
What sum was paid for maternity leave for the (a) first, (b) second and (c) third child in each of the periods. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
What has been the cost of maternity leave in the Attorney-General's Department during the years (a) 1976 and (b) 1977 and (c) in the period January 1978 to date. 
What was the total hours of leave in respect to these employees. 
How many employees have resigned or retired within one month of the end of the leave period in each of the periods. 
What sum was paid for maternity leave for the (a) first, (b) second and (c) third child in each ofthe periods. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
1 ) What has been the cost of maternity leave in his Department during the years (a) 1976 and (b) 1977, and (c) in the period January 1 978 to date. 
What was the total hours of leave in respect of these employees. 
How many employees have resigned or retired within one month of the end of the leave period in each of the periods. 
What sum was paid for maternity leave for the (a) first, ( b) second and (c) third child in each of the periods. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
1 ) What has been the cost of maternity leave in the Department of Education during the years (a) 1976 and (b) 1 977, and (c) in the period January 1 978 to date. 
What was the total hours of leave in respect of these employees. 
How many employees have resigned or retired within one month of the end of the leave period in each of the periods. 
What sum was paid for maternity leave for the (a) first, (b) second and (c) third child in each of the periods. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 26 May 1 978: 
1 ) What has been the cost of maternity leave in his Department during the years (a) 1976 and (b) 1977, and (c) in the period January 1978 to date. 
What was the total hours of leave in respect of these employees. 
How many employees have resigned or retired within one month of the end of the leave period in each of the periods. 
What sum was paid for maternity leave for the (a) first, (b) second and (c) third child in each of the periods. 
asked the Minister assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
1 ) What has been the cost of maternity leave in his Department during the years (a) 1976 and (b) 1977, and (c) in the period January 1978 to date. 
What was the total hours of leave in respect of these employees. 
How many employees have resigned or retired within one month of the end of the leave period in each of the periods. 
What sum was paid for maternity leave for the (a) first, ( b) second and (c) third child in each of the periods. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
1 ) What has been the cost of maternity leave in his Department during the years (a) 1976 and (b) 1977 and (c) in the period January 1978 to date. 
What was the total hours of leave in respect of these employees. 
How many employees have resigned or retired within one month of the end of the leave period for each of these periods. 
What sum was paid for maternity leave for the (a) first, (b) second and (c) third child in each of these periods. 
asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 2 June 1978: 
1 ) What has been the cost of maternity leave in his Depanment during the years (a) 1976, and (b) 1977, and (c) in the period January 1978 to date. 
What was the total hours of leave in respect of these employees. 
How many employees have resigned or retired within one month of the end of the leave period in each of the periods. 
What sum was paid for maternity leave for the (a) first, (b) second and (c) third child in each of the periods. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 26 May 1 978: 
1 ) What has been the cost of maternity leave in his Department during the years (a) 1976, and (b) 1977, and (c) in the period January 1 978 to date. 
What was the total hours of leave in respect of these employees. 
How many employees have resigned or retired within one month of the end of the leave period in each of the periods. 
What sum was paid for maternity leave for the (a) first, (b) second and (c) third child in each of the periods. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
1 ) What has been the cost of maternity leave in his Department during the years (a) 1976, (b) 1977, and (c) in the period January 1978 to date. 
What was the total hours of leave in respect of these employees. 
How many employees have resigned or retired within one month of the end of the leave period in each of the periods. 
What sum was paid for maternity leave for the (a) first, (b) second, and (c) third child in each of the periods. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
1 ) What has been the cost of maternity leave in his Department during the years (a) 1976 and (b) 1977 and (c) in the period January 1978 to date. 
What was the total hours of leave in respect of these employees. 
How many employees have resigned or retired within one month of the end of the leave period in each of the periods. 
What sum was paid for maternity leave for the (a) first, (b) second and (c) third child in each of the periods. 
asked the Minister for Special Trade Representations, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
What has been the cost of maternity leave in his Department during the years (a) 1976 and (b) 1977, and (c) in the period January 1978 to date. 
What was the total hours of leave in respect of these employees. 
How many employees have resigned or reared within one month of the end of the leave period in each of the periods. 
What sum was paid for maternity leave for the (a) first, (b) second and (c) third child in each of the periods. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
1 ) What has been the cost of maternity leave in his Department during the years (a) 1976 and (b) 1977 and (c) in the period January 1 978 to date. 
What was the total hours of leave in respect of these employees. 
How many employees have resigned or retired within one month of the end of the leave period in each of the periods. 
What sum was paid for maternity leave for the (a) first (b) second and (c) third child in each of the periods. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
1 ) What has been the cost of maternity leave in his Department during the years (a) 1976 and (b) 1977, and (c) in the period January 1 978 to date. 
What was the total hours of leave in respect of these employees. 
How many employees have resigned or retired within one month of the end of the leave period in each of the periods. 
What sum was paid for maternity leave for the (a) first, (b) second and (c) third child in each of the periods. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 26 May 1978. 
1 ) What has been the cost of maternity leave in the Department of Social Security during the years (a) 1976 and (b) 1977, and (c) in the period January 1978 to date. 
What was the total hours of leave in respect of these employees. 
How many employees have resigned or retired within one month of the end of the leave period in each of the periods. 
What sum was paid for maternity leave for the (a) first, (b) second and (c) third child in each of the periods. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
What has been the cost of maternity leave in his Department during the years (a) 1976 and (b) 1977, and (c) in the period January 1 978 to date. 
What was the total hours of leave in respect of these employees. 
How many employees have resigned or retired within one month of the end of the leave period in each of the periods. 
What sum was paid for maternity leave for the (a) first, ( b ) second and (c) third child in each of the periods. 
-My question is directed to the Acting Prime Minister. Does he need any constructive advice on the functioning of the Australian economy? 
The honourable member will get his turn. Has the attention of the Acting Prime Minister been drawn to some suggestions made on a television program last night? Could he have received any better advice from any other Opposition spokesman? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 25 May 1978: 
1 ) How long does it usually take to obtain Reserve Bank of Australia approval for the transfer of substantial funds from Australia by individuals and companies. 
Is it a fact that the Reserve Bank of Australia has no power to defer decisions to approve or reject applications for the transfer of funds overseas. 
Is consent required for letters of credit and the issue of travellers cheques. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 26 May 1 978: 
1 ) What has been the cost of maternity leave in his Department during the years (a) 1976 and (b) 1977, and (c) in the period January 1978 to date. 
What was the total hours of leave in respect of these employees. 
How many employees have resigned or retired within one month of the end of the leave period in each of the periods. 
What sum was paid for maternity leave for the (a) first, (b) second and (c) third child in each of the periods. 
-I ask the Acting Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations a question concerning youth unemployment. Does the Acting Minister agree that young people in Australia today are community minded and have a sense of concern about the destiny of the nation? Will the Government consider establishing a voluntary scheme whereby young people wishing to work and serve the community by looking after the aged or disadvantaged groups can do so? 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) What has been the cost of maternity leave in his Department during the years (a) 1976 and (b) 1977 and (c) in the period January 1978 to date. 
What was the total hours of leave in respect of these employees. 
How many employees have resigned or retired within one month of the end of the leave period in each of the periods. 
What sum was paid for maternity leave for the (a) first (b) second and (c) third child in each of the periods. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 24 August 1978: 
1 ) How many applicants were there for special quota under the anomalies reserve for clothing, textiles and footwear. 
Of these applicants, how many received an allocation of extra quota. 
What proportions of the totals of quota in each of these 3 industries did the extra quota represent. 
Were any of the recipients of quota under the anomalies scheme involved in the selling of quota entitlement. 
What are the main reasons for the long delays experienced by applicants for special quota under the anomalies reserve for clothing, textiles and footwear. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
What has been the cost of maternity leave in his Department during the years (a) 1976 and (b) 1977, and (c) in the period January 1978 to date. 
What was the total hours of leave in respect of these employees. 
How many employees have resigned or retired within one month of the end of the leave period in each of the periods. 
What was paid for maternity leave for the (a) first, (b) second and (c) third child in each of the periods. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 8 June 1978: 
How many persons have been gaoled under the provisions of the Family Law Act since its enactment. 
What are their names. 
3 ) What are the terms of imprisonment in each case. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
What has been the cost of maternity leave in his Department during the years (a) 1976 (b) 1977, and (c) in the period January1978 to date. 
What was the total hours of leave in respect of these employees. 
How many employees have resigned or retired within one month of the end of the leave period in each of the periods. 
What sum was paid for maternity leave for the (a) first (b) second, and (c) third child in each of the periods. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 26 May1978: 
What has been the cost of maternity leave in his Department during the years (a) 1976 and (b) 1977, and (c) in the period January1978 to date. 
What was the total hours of leave in respect of these employees. 
How many employees have resigned or retired within one month of the end of the leave period in each of the periods. 
What sum was paid for maternity leave for the (a) first, (b) second and (c) third child in each of the periods. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science the following question, upon notice, on 26 May 1 978: 
1 ) What has been the cost of maternity leave in the Department of Science during the years (a) 1976 and (b) 1977 and (c) in the period January 1978 to date? 
What was the total hours of leave in respect of these employees? 
How many employees have resigned or retired within one month of the end of the leave period in each of the periods? 
What sum was paid for maternity leave for the (a) first, ( b) second and (c) third child in each of the periods? 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
1 ) What has been the cost of maternity leave in his Department during the years (a) 1976 and (b) 1977, and (c) in the period January 1978 to date. 
What was the total hours of leave in respect of these employees. 
How many employees have resigned or retired within one month of the end of the leave period in each of the periods. 
What sum was paid for maternity leave for the (a) first, (b) second and (c) third child in each of the periods. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
1 ) What has been the cost of maternity leave in his Department during the years (a) 1976 and (b) 1977, and (c) in the period January 1 978 to date. 
What was the total hours of leave in respect of these employees. 
How many employees have resigned or retired within one month of the end of the leave period in each of the periods. 
What sum was paid for maternity leave for the (a) first, (b) second and (c) third child in each of the periods. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
1 ) What has been the cost of maternity leave in his Department during the years (a) 1976 and (b) 1977, and (c) in the period January 1978 to date. 
What was the total hours of leave in respect of these employees. 
How many employees have resigned or retired within one month of the end of the leave period in each of the periods. 
What sum was paid for maternity leave for the (a) first, ( b) second and (c) third child in each of the periods. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
1 ) What has been the cost of maternity leave in the Department of Administrative Services during the years (a) 1976 and (b) 1977, and (c) in the period January 1978 to date. 
What was the total hours of leave in respect of these employees. 
How many employees have resigned or retired within one month of the end of the leave period in each of the periods. 
What sum was paid for maternity leave for the (a) first, (b) second and (c) third child in each of the periods. 
-I direct to the Minister for Industrial Relations a question concerning the Industrial Relations Bureau and events which occurred in March of last year when  Mr Kane,  a union member, resigned from his union, dissociated himself from a strike -at a Melbourne City Council depot and subsequently obtained a certificate of conscientious objection from the Industrial Registrar. Have officers of the Industrial Relations Bureau spoken to the Melbourne City Council and the Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union and informed them that they will be prosecuted by the Bureau? 
-The first thing that is obvious in this foreign affairs debate is that the Opposition is as bereft of a foreign policy as it is bereft of a policy in any other area. We have had today from a. number of speakers on the other side an apology for a foreign policy- we have heard nothing. We have been treated to an historical analysis of the situation in South East Asia. We have heard of the wrongs of Australia's commitment in Vietnam. We have seen a party digging deep into the past and not prepared to look into the future. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  earlier today interpreted the current state of affairs in South East Asia as being no threat to Australia at the present time. It was a description of the past with nothing of the future. It was negligent of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition on behalf of the Opposition as a whole. It seems clear to me that the Opposition is not prepared unequivocally and openly to call for the withdrawal of Vietnamese troops from Kampuchea. It seems to me that the power of the proMoscow left wing in the unions of Australia to dictate communist policy to the parliamentary wing of the trade union movement, the Australian Labor Party, has been seen on the floor of this Parliament today. 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  in an excellent outline of the current global political situation has outlined the change in the strategic balance in the world and the conflicts in the world. He referred to the conflicts in the Middle East, the conflict in west Asia, the problems in the Horn of Africa, the problems in Iran, the problems in Namibia and the problems in Zimbabwe. The Australian-American alliance is as important to Australia as it has ever been.' I think we need to look closely at the AustralianAmerican relationship. We enjoy excellent relations with the  President  of the United States, with the Executive branch of the American Government, the departments of its Cabinet and its Cabinet Ministers. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is well respected personally by the United States Secretary of State,  Mr Vance.  But there is another branch of government in the United States which is equally important, namely, the Congress and the Capitol. It is my belief that very few members of the United States Senate and House of Representatives have a real interest in Australia or any real concern for our needs and for our problems in the future. I say this having recently visited the Congress, having been received on the floor of the United States Senate with the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  who is in the House tonight, and having spoken to many senators and congressmen. Late last year I discussed the question of Australia and Asia with them and I could not interest American congressmen, or Americans in general, in Asia. It is only since the recognition of Peking by  President  Carter that the new United States strategy towards Asia has unfolded. It is little wonder that the American Congress passed legislation such as the counter cyclical beef legislation which is against the interests of Australia and, in particular, Australian beef producers. In fact, Australia has very poor relations with the United States Congress. The American politicians really only reflect the attitudes of the American community. Americans as a whole, as a nation, have lost interest in Australia. That is not an unnatural situation. During the Second World War in the Pacific Ocean area Australia had good relations with the United States and in fact had great obligations. General MacArthur was here and many thousands of Americans fought in the Pacific zone, visited, Australia and had great affection for us. That generation of people is getting older and forgetting us. Another generation of people who do not know us have grown up. Those in some quarters of the United States who were associated with the conflict in Vietnam want it to be forgotten. I think we have been forgotten along with the American commitment in Vietnam. 
I urge all Australians, and in particular I urge members of this House and senators, to travel to Washington and to meet American congressmen and senators. I urge them to put the Australian point of view because an enormous amount of lobbying needs to be done. It is my hope that Ambassador Young will visit Australia soon. He is the American Ambassador to the United Nations. I would welcome him because he is close to the American Administration. The more people who are close to the American Administration come to this country and understand us the better. 
I have talked about our relationship with America. I think that at this time we in Australia have never been more alone in the world. Because we read in newspapers of what is happening in other parts of the world, we must not fool ourselves by believing that the world is reading about us. It is not. We have never been more alone in the world and we must not fool ourselves about our position in the world. The ANZUS treaty is vital to Australia and it has to be worked upon. The United States has really rediscovered Asia with the rapprochement with Peking. That normalisation was inevitable following the Shanghai communique when  President  Nixon visited China. Today recognition of Peking is . seen alongside negotiations of the United States .and the Soviet Union on the strategic arms limitations talks, the Camp David negotiations which have just resumed in regard to the Middle East, the situation in Indo-China and the African position. The world situation is as worrying and unstable as it was in 1939. The United States-Peking recognition, this new United States-Sino link, is in its own way one counter to the strategic balance which has moved in favour of the Soviet Union. It is interesting that China has put its money where its mouth is. It is the first nation to tackle the Cubans of the Orient, the Vietnamese. It has in fact done deeds which are at least equal to some of its words. For this it deserves some admiration. 
I turn to the situation in the Indian Ocean which has not been given a lot of attention today. Most of the worrying events in the world are in fact taking place somewhere on the rim of that ocean. The situation in Iran is at the top belly of that Ocean. The Middle East oil supplies have to go through the Indian. Ocean to Australia and Japan. The Hormuz Straits between Oman and 
Iran are vital for the supply of oil to the world. We must therefore worry not only about the instability in Iran but also about some of the moves of a pro-Soviet nature that have taken place in Oman to unsettle the Government of that country. 
As I have said we have never been more alone. We have to look at our place in the world. We are a trading nation. Our trade with Japan is vital to us. We have looked forward and do look forward to the industrial expansion which will take place in mainland China. It will mean an expansion of our trade in Asia. China may well become as important to us as a trading nation as is Japan. This means that the Japanese and Chinese interests are very similar. They will in fact be trading nations. 
We know how important our wheat sales to Peking are. Perhaps our sales of iron ore and coal will become at least as important to China as they are to Japan. Therefore, the sea lanes will be important. I hope that the strategic assessment being carried out by the Government at present will lead to a commitment by the Government to establish forces in a proper form that would increase our self-reliance and our ability to protect our sea lanes because the sea lanes are the lifeblood of Australia. Whilst on the one hand it is very comforting to have that ocean around us, we cannot pretend that it will always be impenetrable by an enemy. We must stand up for ourselves and it is only by increasing expenditure on defence that we will earn the respect of our allies and of any potential enemies. 
I mentioned the Indian Ocean and the events on the rim thereof. There are two significant international events taking place concerning the future of the level of forces in the Indian Ocean. I think the Australian public should well understand these events. The first is the discussions on the stabilisation of forces in the Indian Ocean that were taking place between the United States and the Soviet Union. These talks were reasonably well progressed when, I think, the United States withdrew from them- although that was not publicly announced- after the Soviets, in a provocative fashion, changed their bases from Somalia to Ethopia. So talks, although currently stalled, are being held between the Soviet Union and the United States on the stabilisation of naval forces in the Indian Ocean. I was interested the other day to note that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  called for these talks to resume. I hope that Australia's legitimate interests- I believe they are legitimate- under the ANZUS Treaty to carry on exercises in the Indian Ocean are not affected. Surely the United States in recommencing any negotiations would have to take into account the changed position in Iran and the need to back up any statements that  President  Carter has made in defending American interests in the world. Similarly, notice has to be taken of any Soviet buildup that may occur as a result of the situation in Indo-China. 
The final point to which I shall refer this evening is the vital question of Australia's energy supplies, namely, the need for oil. As we know, 65 per cent to 70 per cent of our oil comes from Australian sources, the main one of which is Bass Strait. I will refer quickly to the report on the Middle East tabled by the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, and published in 1977. From page 321 onwards, it refers to the serious outlook for Australia's oil sufficiency. I hope that the Government is considering this report. It states: 
Australia's oil supply situation over the . . . longer term is serious. Middle East countries supply most of Australia's requirements for heavier crudes but imports of lighter oils from OPEC sources are also likely to grow rapidly over the next decade. 
The report mentions other reasons for concern of which we need to take note. It refers to the need to import large amounts of lubricating oils and bitumen. There is an important statement in that report which reads: 
There are no mandatory stock holdings of petroleum products which has been left as an internal matter for the oil industry. 
I hope that this situation will change and that we will build up mandatory stock holdings of petroleum products to protect the Australian national interest. We have seen what has happened in New Zealand today with rationing. We are in a much better position than New Zealand but we must not be complacent. We must protect and look after our own interests. I call for close examination of the position. 
-The Government and members on this side of the House are concerned about the individuals, the creditors, the debenture holders, the note holders and the shareholders who lost money as a result of the crash of Associated Securities Ltd. Of course we are concerned about these people. I have been consulted by a constituent of mine who has lost his savings to buy a business as a result of the crash. Of course we are sympathetic to people in that position. Let us look at the matter of public importance which the Opposition has raised. The Opposition has attempted to blame the Government for the crash because of its failure to introduce national companies and securities legislation. That is absolute balderdash. 
We did not hear members of the Opposition quote one section of any proposed Act or one section of any proposed scheme that would have stopped the crash. Nothing in the proposed scheme that the Labor Premiers have agreed to and which was signed by responsible Ministers of State on 1 December 1978 would have stopped the crash. All the States have signed an agreement with the Commonwealth to set up a corporate affairs commission. I want honourable members opposite to take note of that fact. I think that they have forgotten it. Nothing in that scheme or in the proposed legislation that honourable members opposite said they would have introduced would have changed the ASL situation at all. 
Let us look at the scheme that the Government proposes to introduce. The initial legislation will be substantially in accordance with the existing uniform laws presently in force in the four member States of the Interstate Corporate Affairs Commission which includes the Labor State of New South Wales, the State in which ASL was incorporated. Honourable members opposite today did not tell us about that. So, a law exists in New South Wales to cover the situation. They did not mention it today because they are arguing amongst themselves and with New South Wales. In fact the New South Wales Corporate Affairs Commission on 9 February commenced investigations into activities of ASL and the reasons for a large turnover of ASL and Ansett Transport Industries shares on the Sydney Stock Exchange prior to ASL's reported loss. The results of the inquiry will no doubt be to hand. I have confidence, as I would hope members of the Opposition would have confidence, that the inquiry would be a proper investigation. Members of the Opposition forgot to tell us that it was a New South Wales matter and that the New South Wales Corporate Affairs Commission had in fact commenced an investigation. 
Let us look at the situation in the market place. Nothing contained in legislation could really change the existing situation. ASL obviously had a heavy investment in a particular area. It seemed heavily over-committed in the property market. It invested in the property market and obviously, because of the collapse, the company made mistakes and losses and innocent people with small and large investments have suffered. Property investments are risky at times. The property market collapsed when a downturn occurred as a result of difficulties in the market place. Companies in ASL's position need a high cash flow to ride out the difficulties. A multimillion dollar operation is needed to save companies in that situation. 
Industrial Acceptance Corporation Ltd got into difficulties some years ago and Citibank, a shareholder and supporter, mounted a massive operation to save the company and to ride out the rough times in order to get to the clear water. That company is now trading profitably and playing a proper part in the investment process. Citibank is to be congratulated for its rescue operation. In this situation companies need to find a big brother in the way in which IAC found Citibank to take the long term view that the property investment in Australia will come right in future and to mount an operation to save the investors and their money. 
I am disappointed that we did not hear anything positive from the other side of the House. I was disappointed in the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  I have respect for him. We did not hear any positive suggestions on what might be done. Should the Opposition not be positive and say that we ought to develop some mechanism to solve this situation? Members of the Opposition did not refer to one single section of any Act. They made no actual suggestion of what should be contained in any legislation. They did not do so because they do not know how and they have no ideas. We need to develop some mechanism whereby a receiver or liquidator can trade out of a situation. We need to look at a situation whereby the methods of valuation of a liquidator's or receiver's assets relate to the value before the crash rather than after. Immediately after a crash losses to the creditors and note holders are taken out and liquidators and receivers work on a lower capital base. Some thought needs to be given to this aspect. The Opposition was bereft of that idea. It could not think of it. 
Another aspect worth investigation is the nation's finding some sort of scheme that can mount rescue operations to save assets. Citibank, in its operation with IAC, has given an example. If a rescue operation can be mounted, at the end of the day everybody gets out- the shareholders, the debenture holders, the creditors- and all is well and the investment process can continue. In the case of ASL some scheme was needed whereby Ansett could get help and assistance. Do not let us forget that Ansett lost money in the transaction. It looked for assistance but obviously there was no backup and no last resort rescue operation. 
Perhaps, rather than criticising people, the Opposition ought to be thinking about ways and methods so that situations such as those that have been mentioned do not happen and people are not hurt and do not lose money. Let us look at the insurance concept, at the basic nature of the investment and savings process, at the role that accumulators of funds such as banks and life companies might play; ask stock exchanges what they think; and see whether some sort of guarantee fund in conjunction with the listing requirements and listed companies could not be developed. Let us see whether some sort of emergency investment lender of last resort role could be developed in the community. Let us be positive. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition raises a matter of public importance dealing with Associated Securities Ltd but all he seemed to do was tell us about Computicket Australia Pty Ltd which had nothing to do with the matter of public importance. He made allegations about  Mr Miller  and his investment in the company. I think the allegation was that  Mr Miller  had revalued some $1 shares by increasing the value of good will for licences et cetera and the other parties had put in cash by way of shares and debentures and had been caught. I make no comment on that; that may or may not be true. If it is true the parties concerned will have available to them a course of action against  Mr Miller,  if that is the thing to be done. Similarly, one would hope that the New South Wales Corporate Affairs Commission would investigate it and if it felt that it was the proper thing to do it would take action. 
Let us leave this matter to be dealt with according to the law and the rights of the people rather than point to some nebulous scheme to solve a problem about which Opposition members have no knowledge. Labor supporters have been completely neglectful today in putting forward anything positive to this House. The House has not heard one decent idea this afternoon from any member of the Opposition. An investigation is being conducted in New South Wales into ASL by a Labor Government, yet today the members of the Labor Opposition in this place failed to mention that fact. They forgot to tell the people of Australia what was going on. Proper steps are being taken. There is nothing that the Commonwealth could have done that would have altered the situation. Members of the Opposition realise that yet they have tried to hoodwink the people into believing that they are concerned. They are not concerned and they do not even understand. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The discussion is concluded. 
-Today I wish to examine some serious aspects of the Australian Labor Party policy towards industrial relations in Victoria. That policy will lead to industrial chaos in that State if Labor were to be elected and it would lead to an enormous cost to the taxpayer by way of increased taxes, because the Australian Labor Party in Victoria wishes to abolish the Office of Industrial Relations Coordination (Public Employing Authorities). Before I examine that matter in detail, I remind the House of the basic form of the Australian Labor Party. Always one has to look at the Labor Party and at who controls it. One goes to the history of the matter. The history of the Australian Labor Party is that it was formed as the parliamentary wing of the union movement. That situation is as true today as it was when the party was formed. Whoever controls the State conference of the Labor Party in Victoria controls the Victorian parliamentarians. The people who control the State conference of the Labor Party are the union movement. Those facts are irrefutable. 
So, having that in mind, we see this policy of abolition of the Office of Industrial Relations Coordination in Victoria. This Office is important. It was established in 1947 and has been expanded and improved by the Hamer Liberal Government to deal with industrial problems between various government departments and government authorities and employees. There are an enormous number of government departments and authorities, such as the Country Roads Board, the State Electricity Commission of Victoria, the Grain Elevators Board, the Housing Commission of Victoria, Portland Harbour Trust Commissioners and others. There needs to be coordination. The experience over the years is that once a union made a claim against one department or one authority and that was met by that department or authority, there would be a flow-on to other departments or authorities. There would be an inevitable expenditure of large amounts of taxpayers' money to meet the claims of unions for increased wages. 
Each public employer is inexorably linked with every other public employer. The Office of Industrial Relations Co-ordination in Victoria co-ordinates these matters for the Government of Victoria, to see that there is a minimum cost to the taxpayer whilst fairness to the unionist is maintained. But what does the Australian Labor Party in Victoria want to do with the Office? 
-It is good to hear the real leader of the Victorian Labor Party in this House today interjecting. He is the real leader. He is the State  President  of the Victorian Labor Party. He is Frank Wilkes 's boss. The man who pulls the strings of the puppet Frank Wilkes is here today- the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding).  He is the shadow over the Labor Party in Victoria. He gave up his leadership of that party to come to this House, but he really controls Frank Wilkes. You cannot dress Frank Wilkes up. He cannot even dress as smartly as the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes). 
I would like to point out to the honourable member for Melbourne what his State colleagues in Victoria are doing-  Mr Amos  and  Mr 
Simmonds. One is the Opposition spokesman for industrial relations and the other is the Opposition spokesman for minerals and energy. They went to the La Trobe Valley to a stop work meeting. They said they would dismantle the Office of Industrial Relations Co-ordination in Victoria. Those two men are controlled by the union movement. They were victims of pressure by Sammy Armstrong and his gang and said they would abolish this Office. Last night at a meeting of the Industrial Relations Society in Melbourne  Mr Simmonds  again stated that the Labor Party policy was to dismantle the total function of the Office of Industrial Relations Co-ordination. So, as late as last night that was the Labor Party policy in Victoria. Even worse, the Leader of the Opposition in Victoria- I should say the de facto leader, because I have established that the real leader, the State  President,  the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, is in this Federal House-  Mr Frank  Wilkes, according to the Melbourne  Herald  of 2 1 February, wrote a letter to  Mr Sammy  Armstrong of the Gippsland Trades and Labour Council saying that the Labor Party would dismantle the present State co-ordination committee and give Cabinet responsibility for handling disputes with government departments and authorities. 
-'It is about time too '-let us write that into  Hansard.  That is what the honourable member for Melbourne says about the matter. 
-He says that is dead right. Well, let me tell the honourable member what  Mr Wran  says about the matter.  Mr Wran  has a different attitude from those of the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes),  the honourable member for Melbourne Ports,  Mr Wilkes, Mr Simmonds  and  Mr Amos,  because the Labor Party is split on this matter. It does not know what to do. Let me tell you what  Mr Wran  did. 
The honourable member for Melbourne should quieten down. On coming into office  Mr Wran  said that he would in fact establish an industrial relations co-ordination unit.  Mr Wran  is doing in New South Wales what  Mr Hamer  has done in Victoria. But the Victorian Opposition wants to go back to the dark ages of industrial chaos. It wants to go back and dismantle the Office.  Mr Wran  in New South Wales is copying what the Victorian Government has done but the Victorian Opposition is putting its head in the sand and saying it will abolish the Office.  Mr Wran  said about this matter 
The State Government will take a tougher line on public service union claims on wages and conditions. 
It will set up an industrial relations co-ordination Unit . . . 

 Mr Hills, who is one of the Opposition's colleagues in the New South Wales Government, said: 
. there will be less hit and miss in the conduct of the Government 's industrial relations. 
What the honourable member for Melbourne by his rude interjections is establishing today is that the Labor Opposition in the State of Victoria would have more hit and miss in the conduct of the Government's industrial relations if the Labor Party was elected in Victoria.  Mr Wran  has clearly said that the aim of setting up his coordination committee, copying what is done in Victoria, which the Labor Opposition in Victoria does not want to do, is to stop the flow-on effect of independent industrial agreements which adds millions of dollars to the annual public service payroll. A strange silence has descended on the Opposition for a moment, because there is a complete split in the Labor Party over this matter. We should just think of the cost of this industrial unrest to the taxpayer. Think of the taxes that would have to be raised, the increased probate duty that would be put on in Victoria, perhaps personal taxation. This is the sort of thing that the Australian Labor Party in Victoria advocates. It is also worth mentioning that the Labor Party when in government in Canberra established a Commonwealth co-ordinating committee. Honourable members opposite have not mentioned that. 
We have the situation of  Mr Wran  copying the Hamer Government.  Mr Whitlam  copied the Hamer Government, but now the Labor Party in Victoria wants to abolish what its colleagues have done. It wants to go back to the dark ages of industrial relations. Let me also examine other matters of taxation relevant to the people of Victoria.  Mr Wilkes,  the faceless leader of the Opposition in Victoria, has said that he would abolish payroll tax. That is approximately $500m of Victorian revenue to be abolished. Where is all that going to come from? The people of Victoria will clearly understand that taxes have to be raised if things like this are going to be abolished, if we are going to abolish the right to receive $S00m.  Mr Wilkes  said: 'Well, the Commonwealth can pay for it'. All right,  Mr Wilkes,  if the Commonwealth is to pay for it it has to increase taxation. 
So, is he advocating increased taxation? I challenge him to say that as I challenge him to publish his letter to  Mr Sammy  Armstrong in the La Trobe valley saying that he will dismantle the Office of Industrial Relations Co-ordination in Victoria. 
The Labor Party in Victoria is advocating increased taxes. It wants to do away with $500m but it has not said where the increased revenue is to come from. It is worth concluding on the note that again there is dispute in the Labor Party. On the one hand there is a dispute between  Mr Wran  and  Mr Wilkes  and on the other hand there is a dispute between, would you believe it, the new Premier of South Australia and  Mr Wilkes,  because the Premier of South Australia has said that he does not believe in the abolition of payroll tax. Again  Mr Wilkes  is grasping in the dark, grasping at straws to try to fool the people of Victoria. They are too smart. They understand that if his policies come into effect by having a Labor Government in Victoria there will be increased industrial chaos, increased taxation and the State will be much worse off. 
My question is addressed to the Foreign Minister. It concerns current events in Indo-China. Is he aware of reports that a Soviet cruiser, a Soviet frigate and a Soviet oiler entered the former United States base at Cam Ranh Bay in Vietnam last week? Is this correct? If so, does the Foreign Minister share my concern that this is an unfortunate change in the strategic balance in the region? Is there an indication that the base will be a permanent Soviet base? Would that indicate then a greater Soviet presence in the Indian Ocean? Would the Minister also care to comment on the current status of negotiations between Vietnam and China on the border dispute and on whether a protracted war is likely to continue as a guerrilla war in Kampuchea? 
-Is the Minister for Industrial Relations aware of a threatened transport stoppage that is likely to affect Victoria, South Australia and Tasmania? Could the Minister give the House the background to the wage claim which has led to this situation arising? Is it likely that the national wage case which commenced in Melbourne this morning could be prejudiced by any such stoppage? 
-I ask the Minister for Industrial Relations a question concerning the Williamstown Naval Dockyard dispute and strike, where workers claim they have sacked a naval officer and allegedly are working without pay. Does this strike amount to a virtual mutiny by those concerned and does it prejudice Australia's national interests? Have the unions concerned in fact broken an agreement that management at the yard would determine overtime levels on a basis of need? Is the work being carried out by the workers there at present counter-productive? Finally, will the Government consider closing down the yard and putting it under naval control? 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, I present the Committee's report on the Torres Strait Treaty. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-I seek leave of the House to make a statement in connection with the report. 
Leave granted. 
When the Committee's report on the Torres Strait boundary was presented in December 1976 it was stated that there would be many further developments in the area in the near future, for at that time Australia and Papua New Guinea were still continuing their negotiations on the question of a boundary or border between the two countries. The Sub-Committee on Territorial Boundaries, with the approval of the main Committee, continued to monitor developments in the region. These activities were formalised as a reference 'to monitor current developments on the issue of territorial borders between Australia and Papua New Guinea'. This report complies with that reference examining at some length the possible effects of the Treaty's provisions on the people who will be most affected by it, namely, the Torres Strait Islanders. The report is really a continuation of the Committee's earlier report. The Sub-Committee on Territorial Boundaries will continue to monitor events in this region, including the long term effects of the Treaty once it is implemented. The Treaty will probably not become fully effective until late in 1979 or 1980, since ratification cannot take place until legislation has been enacted by Australia, Papua New Guinea and Queensland. Some of the Treaty's provisions, including arrangements for the sharing of the area's natural resources, will be the subject of continuing negotiations and co-operation between Australia and Papua New Guinea. 
In the course of this inquiry, the SubCommittee heard evidence from a number of departments, in particular, the Departments of Foreign Affairs, Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, Primary Industry and Health. In addition, the Sub-Committee visited the area in July 1978 to gauge the reaction of the people living in the area to the proposed changes in the existing boundary. The full text of the Treaty is attached as Appendix I to the report. The Committee feels, however, that the more important matters covered by the Treaty are: Firstly, retention of Australian sovereignty over all the islands with the exception of Kawa, Mata Kawa and Kussathree uninhabited islands lying close to the coast of Papua New Guinea. The Government resolved the question of sovereignty over these islands- a matter which was discussed at length in the Committee's previous report on the Torres Strait boundary- by concluding that the islands were never actually annexed by Queensland. A statement summarising the research which led to the Australian Government's conclusion in this matter is attached as Appendix II to the report. Secondly, the delimitation of the seabed resources between Australia and Papua New Guinea. Thirdly, the establishment of a swimming fisheries resources boundary. Fourthly, the creation of a protected zone for the preservation of the unique environment of the Strait area. Fifthly, the confirmation of fishing rights in territorial waters for local inhabitants of the islands of Aubusi, Boigu, Dauan, Kaumag, Moimi and Saibai which have been retained by Australia under the Treaty, and, sixthly, the guarantee of freedom of movement by Papua New Guineans and Torres Strait Islanders within the protected zone to engage in their traditional activities. One hopes this includes the rights of Australians to visit the mainland of Papua New Guinea for traditional purposes to gather water from wells. 
When the Sub-committee visited the Torres Strait Islands in July 1978, the islanders' representatives voiced vociferous objections to the terms of the then proposed treaty. They demanded: 'border no change'. The Committee is satisfied that these objections have largely been overcome, mainly because, prior to the initialling of the Treaty, the Government made a concerted effort to explain its terms, provisions and implications to the Islanders. The Committee's first recommendation is that the Government should also make every attempt to inform the Australian public of the Treaty's terms and provisions. 
The Committee believes that the provisions of the Treaty as finally negotiated are equitable to both countries and have regard for the interests of the parties most affected, and are apparently supported by all interested parties. I would like to emphasise that the provisions of the Treaty to a very large extent incorporate recommendations made by the Committee in its earlier report on the Torres Strait boundary, namely that the Torres Strait Islands should remain part of Australia; that freedom of passage for Australians and Papua New Guineans should be guaranteed in the Protected Zone; that mining and drilling in the seabed should be prohibited until agreement is reached between all interested parties; and that new commercial ventures should not be permitted in the area unless they are compatible with the environment. The Committee has played an important role in this issue. The Committee cannot at this stage assess the long-term effects of the Treaty in the Torres Strait community. However, the Committee feels that the Treaty, when ratified, will have a considerable positive effect on the life style of the Torres Strait Islanders. In particular, the concept, and implementation of the Protected Zone, which encompasses all the reserve islands of the Torres Strait, will provide an opportunity for the indigenous culture of the Torres Strait Islanders to be preserved. 
In recent years there have been rapid changes to the Torres Strait culture, due to a massive population shift from the outer islands to Thursday Island. Large numbers of adult males have left the area on a semi-permanent basis to seek employment in Australia as a result of the lack of economic opportunities in the Torres Strait Islands. To a very large extent, the Islanders depend on fishing for their economic future. Fish stocks in the Torres Strait are not abundant and the main commercial fisheries- crayfish, prawns and the various swimming fisheries- are already fully exploited. The Committee therefore feels that commercial fishing is an activity which, when the Treaty becomes fully effective, will require considerable attention to ensure that overexploitation of the limited resources does not occur. At the same time, the Committee recommends that, where possible, the Government should aid the Islanders to establish themselves commercially in one or more of the fisheriesmackerel is one- with room to accommodate them. Again, should exploitation of hydrocarbon deposits discovered in the area become viable in future, the Committee is concerned that the interests, both social and economic, of the Torres Strait community, should be considered in any such development. 
These concerns have led the Committee to recommend that in implementing the Treaty the 
Government should ensure that the spirit as well as the terms of the Treaty is observed, with particular attention to the application of the Protected Zone provisions and the preservation of the Torres Strait Islanders' culture. To this end, the Committee recommends, further, that the Torres Strait Joint Advisory Council provided for in Article 19 of the Treaty should be appointed as soon as possible; and that the nomination of the Torres Strait Islanders to serve on this body should be made a matter of priority so that the people of the area can see a tangible expression of the results of the Treaty. Two of the Committee's recommendations are not specifically related to matters covered by the Treaty, but to two quite serious problems that are beginning to affect the Torres Strait area and community. These are exotic animal and plant diseases and illegal immigration from Papua New Guinea. The problem of animal and plant diseases passing to Australia through the Torres Strait from Papua New Guinea is at present only potential, but in view of the prevalence of certain very serious animal pests in Papua New Guinea, such as the screw-worm fly, the Committee recommends that quarantine procedures in the area should be considerably strengthened. The Committee is pleased to report that plans are already being implemented by the Department of Health to increase animal quarantine activity in the Torres Strait area. In addition, the Committee would like to see the appointment of quarantine staff to the islands and initiation of a program to train indigenous people for surveillance purposes. 
Illegal immigration from Papua New Guinea to the Torres Strait Islands and eventually to mainland Australia is a well-known practice, and one which poses a major risk of disease entering Australia through animals brought into Australian territory by Papua New Guineans. Since the Committee heard evidence from the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs on this question last August, the Department has taken measures to identify Papua New Guineans living illegally in Australia. As a result, almost 200 returned voluntarily to Papua New Guinea, and 5 were deported. Another 243 were granted permanent resident status after investigation of their cases. Whilst the Committee was pleased to hear recently that the Department is now confident that the situation is under control, it believes that this control must be continued and strengthened through expanding the number of immigration officers permanently stationed in the area. If practicable, local inhabitants should be employed for the purpose. 
Finally, as the Committee agrees that the treaty as signed is a satisfactory document and is in the best interests of all parties concerned, it expresses the hope that ratification will proceed as soon as possible. 
-by leave-As one of the two parliamentary advisers to this delegation to the United Nations General Assembly I feel it appropriate to say a few words in the Parliament today. Attached to the report is an addendum signed by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and me as parliamentary advisers to the delegation. It is one in which we are unanimous, something that the media might take note of particularly on this day. The most important part of the report for the Parliament is that the initiative taken by the delegates in forming a United Nations parliamentary group. This group had approximately six official meetings during the General Assembly period and was attended in all by 19 countries. As we say in the report, it was probably in many respects the most widely represented group in the broader sense of the word at the United Nations. We talk, in our report, of the weaknesses of the General Assembly meetings in that we feel that it comprises interests based on ideological and perhaps geographical groupings. 
As we say in the report, the General Assembly is perhaps the 'world's annual general meeting'. Apart from set speeches by Prime Ministers and Foreign Ministers most of the General Assembly debates are carried on by public servants, officials representing governments and not people's representatives in the broader sense. I am not saying that politicians would do any better, but I would like to think that the initiative taken by us as parliamentary advisers to the delegation would be the beginning of some reform of the United Nations- as we say in our report, the vehicle for some change in the organisation. We are pleased that the Secretary-General congratulated us on our initiative. In fact, our meetings were notified in the journal which is the equivalent of the Notice Paper in this place. We feel it is important that liaison be established with other international parliamentary organisations and, as can be seen from our recommendations which are referred to in the report, we hope that other parliamentary organisations such as the International Parliamentary Union, the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and the Parliament of Europe will take an interest in this initiative. 
Representatives of other countries involved welcomed our initiative. It made us realise at the United Nations forum when mixing with delegates from countries all over the world that Australia, Australians and members of the Australian Parliament have an important part to play in international affairs. We were respected for forming this group and for having no vested interest. People said to us: 'If some other countries had formed the group it would have been suspect, but as Australians have done so and as we know you have no vested interests we congratulate you'. I think that as a nation we tend to undersell ourselves a little. We ought to take more initiatives such as this in the field of international relations. I thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  for your indulgence. 
-by leave-I present the report of the Australian Parliamentary Observer Group on the Zimbabwe Rhodesia Common Roll Elections. I seek leave to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
Leave granted. 
-The Australian Parliamentary Observer Group was made up of myself, the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  and the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  It was an all parliamentary group. In the interests of time, I understand that the honourable member for Cook will not be speaking on the tabling of the report today but he, as a member of the group and as a signatory to it, as we all are, endorses the report. Whilst we are all members of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, as the report sets out, we went as individual members of parliament and not as representatives of a committee or of the Government. However, our fares and expenses were met by the Government. It was my view that our group was really the only genuine parliamentary team present to observe those elections. As I said earlier today in the debate on the United Nations General Assembly report, as a Second World power, Australia has a part to play in international problems of this nature. I refer briefly to some of the conclusions in this report which were reached by all members of the observer group. The report states: 
We are satisfied that the common roll elections were held in a free and fair manner, openly and in accord with usual democratic practices, particularly considering that they were the first universal franchise elections to be conducted in Zimbabwe Rhodesia. 
It continues: 
We consider that voters had a genuine choice between candidates from differing political parties. All parties were free to register and to nominate candidates. 
The report further concludes: 
A large proportion of voters appeared to see the elections not so much in terms of a choice between parties but as a means of achieving black majority rule and, hopefully, an end to the guerilla war. Many voters asked why they were voting replied for peace, an end to the war, for majority rule or to bring ' the boys ' home from the bush. 
This was a theme which I heard from nearly everyone to whom I spoke. The people were just voting for peace. The report continues: 
We were most impressed by the fact that some 64 per cent of the estimated voting population turned out to vote. This is a high proportion when compared with most other voluntary voting democracies. We do not believe that such a large number of voters could have been forced to go to the polls against their will. 
The report continues: 
The Constitution is more flexible than we had been led to believe and offers full opportunity for effective majority government. 
It is my personal belief that the Constitution gives proper and legitimate majority rule. If one looks at the Constitution, one sees that there is a black majority in the Parliament. It has general power over appropriation of revenues to both the police forces and armed forces and the government has power to issue general policy directions to both the police and the Army. 
We conclude by urging the Government of Zimbabwe Rhodesia to make an earnest attempt at rapprochement with the minority parties within the Parliament, and with the Patriotic Front parties, so that the peace which has for so long proved so elusive is achieved. I note that since we wrote that conclusion there has been an offer of amnesty. Perhaps that makes our final conclusion more relevant. That is: 
We believe also that there is a responsibility on the part of the minority parties and the Patriotic Front parties to play their part in achieving a lasting and peaceful solution to the problems in that country. 
I raise a matter on the adjournment this evening that I would have hoped I could raise by way of personal explanation earlier in the evening, but time and the business of the House did not permit me to do so. Yesterday in the Senate,  Senator Button  stated that he was invited to take part in a debate with me at the Caulfield Institute of Technology. He said that I did not front in spite of four invitations being extended to me. He also said:   . . that in may say so, I understand that to be a tribute to his perspicacity. He is an astute man and it was only common sense for him not to turn up. 
He was talking about me. Whilst I am grateful for the senator's comments concerning perspicacity, I wish to put the record straight. There was nobody there apparently or virtually nobody there. I was not specifically invited to take part in the debate with  Senator Button  on the day that he was apparently  speaker  and audience as well. 
On 3 1 July my office received by telephone a general invitation to a post-Budget debate at a time to be fixed. It came from a representative of the students Union who also said he was the Australian Union of Students secretary. He subsequently rang back. A member of my staff informed me of the matter and I said I would be happy to participate at an appropriate time to be fixed. My office tried to ring the student back on the two telephone numbers given but there was no answer. Subsequently, on one occasion the Caulfield Institute of Technology number answered and a message was left. My office has no record of ever having received any formal invitation in writing to debate at the time and place fixed for  Senator Button.  I have not, as alleged by  Senator Button,  received four invitations to debate with him at that time. I have received no written invitation. Only the general one I have mentioned was received.  Senator Button  in the past has quoted T. S. Eliot as saying: 
The human mind cannot bear too much reality. 
The reality of this situation is as I have stated. I have received no such invitation. I can only say that  Senator Button  reminds me of T. S. Eliot's 'Skimbleshanks.' The Railway Cat'. I am sure the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  knows about that. The meeting that  Senator Button  attended, where there was so much media interest but no audience was in reality like the whisper that went down the line at 1 1.39: 
Skimble where is Skimble has he gone to hunt the thimble? We must find him or the train can't start. 

 Senator Button apparently needed a start that day.  Senator Button  stated further that he had been invited to take part in a further debate with me at the Caulfield Institute of Technology. I have received no such invitation. If I do I would of course be pleased to attend at a mutually convenient time. I would like to remind  Senator Button  that I would be delighted to debate the Budget with him. I only hope that the fact I have received no invitation to debate with him that day has nothing to do with the fact that  Senator Button  might be afraid to debate with me. 
-We did debate some time ago in my electorate at a combined college meeting of Kildara and De la Salle about the respective philosophies of our two parties. I can only say, as the honourable member for St George said, I must have thrashed him- his words. I think I overwhelmed him then. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for National Development. It concerns the Government's energy policy announced by the Prime Minister in June this year, particularly the conservation measures in that policy. I ask the Minister: What progress has been made in reaching the fuel economy targets for new passenger cars, which should result in savings of 5 per cent in 1983 and 12 per cent in 1987? Does the Minister believe that the addition of turbochargers to car engines can help to achieve these fuel economy goals? If so, will the Government consider exempting turbo-charger kits from sales tax? 
-What is very obvious in this debate today is that the Opposition's case here is weaker than water. We heard one of the most pathetic efforts from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  I think we have heard since he has been Opposition Leader. I think what  Mr R.  J. Hawke, the endorsed candidate for Wills, heard today must give him great hope. The Leader of the Opposition spoke about the impartiality of justice and talked about the damage to the conciliation and arbitration system. I would like to tell the House that the damage to the conciliation and arbitration system has, in fact, been done by the Opposition. It has been done by the Leader of the Opposition in his speech to this House today because he asked how a government could function if the people who administer laws have no confidence in it. What the Leader of the Opposition is doing is magnifying informal consultations between the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  and the commissioners into the public arena and bringing it into public focus so that, in fact, the Commission runs the risk of being attacked as it has been attacked, I believe, by the Opposition here today. The danger is to the rule of law and to the independence of the judiciary and quasi-judicial authorities and administrative bodies like the Commission. The Opposition's attack has been completely irresponsible. 
The Leader of the Opposition based his attack on some informal discussions made ex cathedra and has magnified them. The law means nothing to the Leader of the Opposition. If the law is unconstitutional as the lawyer Leader of the Opposition seems to think it is, then the High Court of Australia is the place to test that law. The Government does not shrink from that. The Government believes the Bill is constitutional. But if it is not it is up to parties to take it to the High Court because it is the rule of law that we are talking about. The scant regard for the rule of law by the Opposition is something we all ought to be very very concerned about. In fact,  Mr R.  J. Hawke in July last year, in one of the most outrageous attacks on the impartiality, independence and integrity of the judiciary, accused the High Court of raping the Australian people through its decisions on tax matters. I am quoting from the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 78 July.  Mr Hawke  is reported to have said: 
. the court should be enlarged with judges who are in touch with modern realities and thinking. 
That is the attitude of the Opposition, I presume, to the institutions of this country. I think it is an attack on the rule of law itself, because the High Court is the place where these matters ought to be decided- whether things are constitutional. For the Leader of the Opposition to get up in this House today and give the weak speech that he did is really, I think, disturbing to the people of Australia. 
Let us look at the speech of the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  I think it was the worst speech he has ever made. He referred to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  being in charge of industrial relations. 
He said that the Prime Minister is the chief spokesman for the Government. He is the Prime Minister of the land. I am not sure whether the honourable member for Port Adelaide is the spokesman for industrial relations or not.  His  leader said that he would make a good industrial relations spokesman on the back bench because if the newly endorsed candidate for Wills is elected he would be the industrial relations spokesman. I am not sure who is the spokesman on industrial relations in the Opposition. The honourable member for Port Adelaide made a very rattled speech. He kicked the communist can, he attacked the Chief Justice of the Commonwealth and talked about the denigration of the Government in wanting the Commission to be the puppet of the Government. What utter balderdash; what utter rubbish. The Government wants an independent, and believes it has an independent, Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to conciliate and arbitrate in the public interests in Australia. We know who the puppets are; every member of the Australian Labor Party in this House is, in fact, a puppet of the trade union movement because the trade union movement controls the Australian Labor Party. There is no doubt about that. There is no cry from the Opposition about that because it is absolutely true. 
There is no need for the Government to reconsider its industrial relations policy. The Minister for Industrial Relations has adequately described the consultations he has been involved in. This legislation has gone through every proper process. It has been prepared in a perfectly normal way and, like every other piece of legislation before this House, every proper procedure has been entered into. I think that ought to be made perfectly clear to the Opposition. I think we need to look at the role of the Commission in this matter. Commissioners take an oath when they are appointed that they will faithfully and impartially perform the duties of their office. 
Under section 1 1a of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act they are given the same protection and immunity as judges of the courts. They are not judges. They are in a halfway land between administrative officers and members of the judiciary. But they are given the same protection and immunity as a judge of the court. With that goes great responsibility. I am sure the commissioners would not deny that. What I think the Commission is probably concerned about today is that the Opposition has magnified some informal consultations that the members have had with the Minister out of all proportion and placed them in the public arena. If the Opposition and the media highlight those comments made by the commissioners, I believe that we are on the threshold of looking at and damaging some of our fundamental institutions in Australia today. We are talking about the rule of law, we are talking about the independence of the judiciary and members of the Commission. For the first time, I think, we have to look at the role of the commission*-* and the Commission. I think the role of the ccmissioners is to administer impartially the Act, their conciliation and arbitration functions and carry out their functions under that Act. 
Commissioners will be able to comment on the inadequacies of the existing law when making decisions and awards and when they are conciliating and arbitrating. We are on a dangerous threshold when private views of members of the Commission become public property. The rule of law is paramount. Under the Westminster system, inherent in this principle that parliament is the place where laws are made, this House and the Senate are the places where industrial relations laws of Federal jurisdiction are made. If the laws that we make are bad or inadequate it is for the High Court to say so. That is basic to the rule of law. The courts have to administer justice. As I have said, the Arbitration Commission is in a half-way area when carrying out its functions and its powers under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act; but it is a very important area and the commissioners have to act informally on many occasions. There' are panels of commissioners in respect of particular industries. All these things are vital if we are to have adequate and proper conciliation and arbitration. 
The Act has to be informal. We do not want a strict Act. The Government has enacted legislation to improve the industrial relations framework in this country. It is legislation which I think is proper and adequate and is an improvement of the existing situation for settling industrial disputes. The legislation improves the Act and the ability of the Commission to conciliate and arbitrate in the public interest so that the Commission can function properly and see that there are orderly and principled industrial relations in this country. That is what it is all about. We want to promote goodwill in industry and encourage and provide the means for conciliation with a view to amicable agreement, thereby preventing and settling industrial disputes. Those are some of the objects of the Act. 
This legislation strengthens the Act. It strengthens the ability of the Commission to promote goodwill in industry, and to settle, conciliate and arbitrate. We have strengthened the President's position. We have given the  President  more power. We have given the  deputy  presidents more authority. There is no derogation from or diminution of power whatever in the legislation that is the subject of discussion today. Rather, there has been a strengthening of it. I am sure that the community supports the Government. It supports what the Government is doing. The Commission has the power to deregister when it believes that there will be an adverse effect on the safety, health or welfare of a community. I am sure that the people of Australia support that power. 
Parliament is the place where the final decisions are made. The Government is on the right course. The Government's legislation is sound. The legislation is designed to promote and protect the individual against abuse of trade union power. The Government's amendments to the legislation set out to provide a framework for peaceful and orderly industrial relations in this country. I have the utmost confidence in the Minister and that this legislation is absolutely right for the country. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
1 ) This this House offers its congratulations to the owner, trainer and connections of the winner of the Melbourne Cup, Hyperno; and 
That in future this House does not sit on Melbourne Cup days. 
-I ask the Minister for Transport a question about Melbourne's splendid but under-utilised international airport at Tullamarine. The Minister is doubtless aware that the international usage of Tullamarine, as measured by aircraft movements, is less than half that of Sydney. In view of the peaking of flights into Sydney in the early morning immediately after the curfew is lifted at that airport, will he continue to press his Department to encourage airlines to schedule more of their flights into Melbourne as the first port of entry into Australia? Additionally, can he assure me - 
-I will invite the honourable member to Melbourne any time he would like to come and I am sure that the honourable member for Melbourne would invite him also. Additionally, can the Minister assure me that any international airline that wishes to fly to Melbourne can do so? 
I wish  to  raise the question of the state of Australian and United States relations. I believe that Australia's relationship with the United States is our most fundamental and important one. It is our most vital alliance and the United States is our most important ally. Our two peoples have very much in common. We share the same ideals and the same freedoms. We are both democracies. For Australia the ANZUS Treaty underpins the ultimate defence of the country. As far as the American people are concerned, however, we are the forgotten land and the forgotten people. I believe that we are very much taken for granted. A generation of people who do not know Australia or Australians has grown up in the United States. This was not always the case. During the Second World War we enjoyed great relations with the United States and its people. But now that generation of people who knew Australia well- those who served in the Pacific theatre of the war and almost certainly visited this country- are an older generation, and a group of people who do not know us has grown up. 
I believe that it is to our detriment that we fought with the United States in the Vietnam war. We believed that there was a reservoir of goodwill to be built up by joining our ally, the United States, in that war. That now counts against us because people in the United States wish to forget the Vietnam war and along with that they forget Australia and its contribution to that war. On an individual basis, Australians are welcomed in the United States. Similarly, when honourable members and senators visit Washington, and the United States Congress, they are made very welcome on a one-to-one basis. For instance, this morning a number of us from the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence were briefed by General Norman 
Schwarzkopf, who is visiting Australia as part of an ANZUS regular briefing program. 
Australia enjoys good relations with the Executive branch of the United States- with the  President,  the administration and the Cabinet. In Australia we have a distinguished United States Ambassador who is close to the  President  and the White House. Australian Ministers have access to United States Cabinet members. Our Ministers are always welcome in Washington. Similarly, our armed forces enjoy good relations. We have just completed a most successful Kangaroo III ANZUS exercise. The success of that exercise was perhaps to remind our enemies that we still work together. However, I believe that our relations with Congress are not as good as they ought to be and in fact are deteriorating. For some years we have not had any United States congressional visits to Australia. I ask members of the Senate and the House of Representatives in the United States: Why have they apparently lost interest in Australia? Why has none of their committees visited this country? 
I have with me a document entitled Backgrounder' which was issued by the United States International Communication Agency. In that fairly comprehensive document, which looks at United States policy towards Asia as far as the Congress is concerned, there is not one mention of Australia, nor is there a mention of the role that Australia plays in relation to the Association of South East Asian Nations, with Japan or in the Pacific. Quite frankly, I find that very concerning indeed. 
Last year I was fortunate to represent this House as a member of the Australian delegation to the United Nations, and I was there for some time. I made some first-hand observations. I believe that the United States Congress reflects the general level of awareness about Australia. For instance, last year I was in New York when the Melbourne Cup was being run. There was not even a mention of that race in the United States newspapers. It was very difficult to find out who was the winner of that race. Australians are lulled into a false sense of security. Just because we read about the United States in our newspapers, we assume that the American newspapers have as much information in them about Australia. That is not so. 
Let us look at what is happening in the United States Congress. Currently that body is looking at counter-cyclical beef legislation which is against the interests of Australian beef producers. No wonder legislation is passed in the United States Congress which is inimical to our interests when there is a general lack of interest in Australia by that body. I believe that this Parliament has a responsibility to send regular parliamentary delegations to the United States. In a case of access to the United States beef market, I believe that we need to send a delegation of Australian cattlemen and politicians to the United States to talk to United States senators and congressmen about the matters that we have in common and to point out that it is in .the interests of the American consumer for the United States to have more and more Australian beef. I consider that to help promote Australia generally in the United States we could appoint a number of honorary consuls from a number of prominent Americans who are our friends. The United States Congress, I believe, needs to be reminded of the joint defence facilities that are shared by Australian and United States armed forces in Australia. Similarly, the United States needs to remember the bilateral relations between our two countries. I do not say that all is well on both sides. The Dillingham dispute is regrettable. Australia has a case before the World Court where there is an argument between the Dillingham Corporation of Australia Ltd and the Australian Government about the amount of expropriation damages to be paid. I consider it would have been much better if that case had been disposed of long before this either by agreement or before the Centre for the Settlement of International Investment Disputes. Similarly, at the present time in the United States there is a claim under the United States antitrust laws for extraterritorial jurisdiction. This, in fact, has the effect of meaning that a number of Australian businessmen who are executives and directors of uranium mining companies cannot visit the United States for fear of being arrested and being sent to gaol. I consider that this is a serious situation. 
As I said at the outset, the United States is our most important ally. However, I believe that because of the irritants, pressures and strains that I have referred to, the relationship is now out of balance. Both countries need to work harder to improve the relationship. As Australians, we need to do more to promote ourselves as a people and as a nation. 
There is one other item of international affairs that I would refer to before I conclude and that is the current constitutional Lancaster House talks taking place in the United Kingdom on the future of Zimbabwe-Rhodesia. I congratulate Lord Carrington on the way he has conducted these talks. They are in their ninth week. Reports this morning indicate that legislation is before  the House of Commons to lift sanctions in part. I welcome that and I hope that Australia will shortly be able to follow suit. I think, however, at this stage, that the United Kingdom needs support from some of its allies and I am pleased to do that. The British plan envisages a two to three month period of direct rule by a governor despatched from England pending new elections. I think that is a proper and practical period in which parties could campaign. But I am left with the suspicion that the  Patriotic Front, by  wanting a longer period, in fact does not wish to contest the elections at all. When I visited the country as an international observer and as a representative of this Parliament it was obvious that the people there were sick of the war and that they clearly voted for peace. I have always said that just as water needed to flow under the bridge, the frontline States needed time to change their attitudes. Similarly the Patriotic Front would not have fared very well at an election at that time because it was fighting a war and the people were utterly sick of that war. It seems to me that the British proposals at this time are the most practical ones in all the circumstances. I hope that Australia and other allies of the United Kingdom will support Britain in these constitutional talks. 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on Foreign AfFairs and Defence I present the Committee's report on Human Rights in the Soviet Union, together with the transcript of evidence. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-by leave-The report of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence entitled 'Human Rights in the Soviet Union' is based on the evidence given to a sub-committee of the Joint Committee. Many witnesses had extensive experience in the Soviet Union. Some had served prison sentences and, as in the case of the well known mathematician, Leonid Plyushch, had been forcibly detained in a special psychiatric hospital, because of their political, ethnic minority or religious dissent against the Soviet system. The Committee believes that the civil rights of Soviet citizens have improved considerably since the Stalin period ended in 1953. Ofcourse, there was immense scope for improvement. Nevertheless, the Soviet Union has failed to enter into the spirit of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and has failed to implement many of its formal commitments in such documents as the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the Final Act of the 1975 Helsinki Agreement. Within three years of  Mr Brezhnev  signing the Final Act of the Helsinki Agreement, the Soviet Union flouted the Agreement's human rights provisions to such an extent that it has even imprisoned or expelled most of the people who, with considerable courage, had openly monitored the extent of Soviet compliance with the Helsinki Agreement. 
The widely proclaimed 1977 Soviet Constitution is at best an expression of hopes and desires, not an instrument whereby basic rights may be protected. It is unlikely to improve the situation of those Soviet citizens who do not agree with some aspects of the Soviet political system. Indeed, within a few months of the proclamation of the new Constitution, a number of Soviet citizens underwent political trials which were not open to the general public. In the conduct of these trials the Soviet Government ignored its commitments in the 1977 Constitution as well as natural justice. The civil rights and freedoms of Soviet citizens are very much subordinate to the interests of the Soviet State; this is made clear in the Soviet Constitution. In any case, Soviet citizens have no practical way of enforcing constitutional provisions. There are no independent courts for the purpose of interpreting Soviet laws or for enforcing the Soviet Constitution. Soviet courts which sit in judgment on what may be termed political or religious cases seem to be subject to secret directives. 
In view of the reported irregularities at Soviet trials and Soviet sensitivity to Western public opinion, it is recommended that wherever possible the Australian Embassy in Moscow send observers to Soviet political trials. The Australian Embassy in Moscow should keep the Australian Government informed on Soviet human rights violations. This should include any information available on the treatment of Soviet citizens imprisoned for their political or religious beliefs, or because they have sought increased rights for a Soviet minority. Soviet citizens may not engage in independent political activity, nor form or belong to political parties other than the Communist Party of the Soviet Union; nor do the Soviet people have an opportunity to effect a change in their government or parliaments through the ballot box. This monopoly of power has been enshrined in the 1977 Constitution and the Communist Party's influence is strongly felt at all levels of Soviet society. The Party's monopoly of political power derives considerable support from Soviet security agencies and from control of the Soviet media. 
The Union of Soviet Socialist Republics is unique among the major powers in that the Soviet Union's dominant nationality is portentially outnumbered. It is possible in the near future that the Russians will be outnumbered by the total of the other hundred or so nationalities that make up the Soviet population. National movements among several of those non-Russian minorities are probably the most important of the political forces facing the Soviet government. The national and cultural institutions of approximately three million Soviet Jews have been virtually non-existent since Stalin's purge of Jewish national culture in 1948. Any minor concessions since that time can only be described as token gestures which may be designed to obviate too much foreign criticism. The authorities' desire to suppress Jewish culture is confirmed by the fact that even private language instruction and seminars on Jewish culture are severely repressed and books in Hebrew with no political content have been confiscated. In sharp contrast to the situation of other Soviet minorities, there is not a single school in the USSR which teaches in a Jewish language. Soviet anti-semitic publications are printed in a number of languages and have been made available in various parts of the world, including Australia. The Committee recommends that the Australian Government request the Soviet Government not to circulate in Australia and on Soviet cruise ships in Australian waters Soviet books and pamphlets which contain the type of anti-Semitic material quoted in this report. 
The USSR disregards its commitments to international declarations and covenants which declare that everyone has the right to leave his country. The Soviet Government regards emigration as an unpatriotic act and has virtually restricted it to the concept of family reunion, which is applied to those Soviet nationalities that can be seen to have a homeland abroad, such as Jews and Germans. At present rates of emigration, it may take over six years for Soviet approval of the outstanding applications to emigrate from those Soviet Jews who have already received nominations from relatives abroad. As at 30 June this year, such nominations amounted to 337,000 for Jews still in the USSR. This long period of uncertainty is a most daunting prospect for would-be emigrants, considering the likelihood of dismissal from employment and other harassment. that applicants are likely to suffer. 
When the USSR allows a pre-determined number of people to emigrate each year, it is a concession to Western public opinion, as well as a way to remove elements who are dissatisfied with life in the USSR. As long as the USSR seeks goodwill and economic concessions from the West, there seems to be scope for the West to achieve a more humane Soviet attitude to emigration. The Committee recommends that the Australian Government use judiciously applied pressure on the Soviet authorities, so that the USSR will allow those Soviet citizens to emigrate who wish to be reunited with their relatives in Australia. The Committee recommends that the Australian Government request the United Nations Secretary-General to utilise the UN information services in Moscow to make available to interested people copies of UN conventions on human rights, in the languages of the main Soviet nationalities. 
The democratic movement in the Soviet Union has received some severe setbacks in recent years. Many leading activists are now imprisoned for long terms, exiled to remote parts of the Soviet Union or expelled abroad. Past trends and statements by those still involved with political dissent indicate that protest will go on, although there could be a lull while a new community of dissent evolves. Discontent among certain national and religious groups is more widespread, and several national minorities are likely to pose continuing problems for the Soviet Government. Conditions in the Soviet prison system are harsh, brutal, and degrading of human dignity. In particular, Soviet penal regulations, and even more so their implementation, fall far short of humane concepts- in the system of punishments, the rights of prisoners to make complaints, to communicate with their families and friends, and, most seriously, to receive adequate nourishment and medical care. 
The Soviet Union is systematically abusing psychiatry through the forced internment of mentally healthy people in order to cure them of their political or religious beliefs. This also enables the Soviet Union to avoid the presence of some important dissidents at trials. The estimated 300 dissidents held in prison psychiatric hospitals at any one time- more are held in ordinary psychiatric hospitals- suffer the most degrading conditions. Harmful drugs are administered to some of them. There is a continuing need to expose the unjust conditions endured by the people who are imprisoned in Soviet penal and psychiatric institutions merely because of their political or religious convictions. Wide publicity tends to act as a security against greater Soviet excesses. It is recommended that the Australian Government give consideration to seeking the establishment of a permanent, independent, international organisation to inquire into the abuse of psychiatry for political purposes. Such an organisation should comprise distinguished psychiatrists, lawyers and human rights specialists. The organisation could operate under the auspices of the United Nations. 
Australia should be conscious of its respect for human rights in its relationship with the Soviet Union. It is recommended that in the course of bilateral discussions or negotiations with the USSR, the Australian Government take the opportunities that arise to state its disapproval of Soviet breaches of human rights. Similarly this can be done by individual Australians during cultural, academic and scientific exchanges with the Soviet Union. It is recommended that Australia's representatives at the United Nations and its agencies, particularly the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, be instructed to use these forums to raise human rights issues. 
The Committee is concerned that the Soviet Government may repress any internal opposition which may manifest itself during the Moscow Olympic Games, and that at the time of the Olympics the Soviet authorities will ensure that any known opponents of the Soviet authorities are either removed from Moscow or committed to some form of imprisonment or psychiatric treatment, even if only temporarily. Rather than attempt to influence a change in the venue for the 1 980 Olympics, the Committee recommends that the Australian Government, in conjunction with other governments, try to persuade the Soviet Government that the USSR would be seen in more favourable light if large numbers of its political and religious prisoners were released from prisons, labour colonies and psychiatric hospitals before the Games. The USSR should also be encouraged to make a favourable gesture by allowing further substantial increases in emigration before the Games, including about 2,000 Refusenicks, most of whom have been waiting for many years to emigrate. 
As the evidence before the Sub-Committee on Human Rights in the Soviet Union was to a great extent unfavourable to the Soviet Government, the Committee regrets that the Soviet Embassy in Australia did not avail itself of ample formal or informal opportunities to put a Soviet viewpoint to the Sub-Committee. Nevertheless, the Sub-Committee was able to obtain a number of Soviet publications which express the Soviet viewpoint on several human rights matters. I take this opportunity to thank all those who contributed their knowledge and experience to the inquiry, especially all those who testified before the Sub-Committee. I commend this report to the Parliament and consider it essential that the report be debated after members have had time to consider it. I look forward to the comments of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  in such a debate after the Government has had an opportunity to consider the matters raised in the report. 
-by leave-I make this statement on behalf of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, which, as you know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  is composed of both Government and Opposition members of the Senate and the House of Representatives. The statement concerns new references for the Committee. The Joint Committee has decided on two new references for its investigation. The first new reference is: 
To monitor the political, economic and strategic situation in the Middle East and peripheral countries, and to report on any significant events and their possible effects on Australia. 
This new reference is in effect a continuation of the Committee's last report on the Middle East, tabled in 1976. The previous report looked at a number of matters, including the importance of Middle East oil for Australia; the likely effect on unemployment in Australia if supplies of Middle East crude oil were interrupted; minimising the likelihood of an interruption of oil supplies; the impact in Australia of sharp price rises in Arab oil; and Australian stocks of petroleum products. The previous report also referred to the serious outlook for Australia's oil sufficiency and looked at reasons for concern with Australia's oil situation. The new terms of reference will enable these matters to be updated. The new inquiry will be more wide-ranging. It will include an examination of the situation in Iran which was not examined in the last report. 
The Middle East is a focal point of conflict of interests, with a potential for war and for upsetting the balance between the great powers. The region holds the major portion of the world's oil reserves that fuel the industries of Western industrial countries and Japan- Australia's major trading partner. The Arab oil states are also a major source of new investment in the Western world. This oil wealth is an additional means of diplomatic pressure and economic influence. The current situation in Iran is a particular source of tension. As I have said, the Committee's reference will include an examination of the situation in that country and the possible effects on Australia. 
The Middle East situation, which is always fragile, makes special demands on the United States' diplomatic, military aid and financial resources, as the current situation in Iran shows. Therefore, Australia's own strategic environment is influenced to Australia's disadvantage by any deterioriation in the Middle East, with its uncertain effects on super-power relationships in many areas of the world. The consequences of further serious conflict in the Middle East are almost unthinkable in their potential magnitude. Sixty per cent of the world's oil comes through the Straits of Hormuz. If they are shut, the free world 's economies will virtually close down. The  Chairman  of this sub-committee looking at the Middle East reference will be the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon). 
The other new reference that the Committee is taking is one that looks at Australia and Asia and is entitled 'The Changing Power Structure in Indo-China since 1975, and its Effects on Australia and the Region'. Events in the IndoChina region are of major concern at present. There is the potential that the situation there may lead to further conflict between China and Vietnam, which in turn could possibly involve the Soviet Union in the area. There is increasing evidence that the Soviet naval presence in the area is on the increase. The repercussions of further conflict could be immense for the region and for the world. The changing power structure in IndoChina, the wars there and, more recently, the serious conflict in Kampuchea have been accompanied by the generation of an appalling refugee situation- a human tragedy. I am pleased to say that  Senator Martin,  a member of the Committee, reported to the Committee this morning on her recent visit there. All of this has put special demands on neighbouring states in the region of Indo-China and has at last attracted world-wide attention to the plight of the refugees. 
It is important that the Australian Parliament examine the serious issues of importance in Asia- the region of the world in which Australia is situated. This new reference will enable the Committee to do so. Australians need to be more aware of the geographical facts of life-that Australia is in the Asian region. The work and the report of the Committee will help a wider debate and an understanding of Australia's relations with Asian nations. I am hopeful, after discussions that I, together with the  Deputy Chairman  of the Committee, have had with the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock),  that the Government will make funds available for members of the Committee to visit this region of the world. 
Both the Committee 's new references cover regions of the world which are delicately poised and have seen a rapid change in events in the past few years. With these references, the Joint Committee and, through it, the Parliament and the people will be kept abreast of changes in these volatile areas and how these changes may affect Australia. The Joint Committee is also continuing its work on two other major references, namely, Southern Africa and Defence. It will continue to monitor negotiations between the Australian and Papua New Guinean governments concerning implementation of the Torres Strait Treaty as well as to monitor negotiations between Australia and Indonesia on the seabed boundary between the two countries. The Defence sub-committee's report entitled Australia's Defence Procurement' will be tabled in the Parliament this coming Thursday. I am greatful to the House for its indulgence in this matter. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer and concerns the avoidance of the payment of income tax. In part it is supplementary to a question asked earlier today by the honourable member for Hume, and to a question asked yesterday by the honourable member for Tangney. Is it a fact that millions of dollars are lost each year to the revenue because of tax avoidance by means of the cash economy; that is, payments made in cash, not recorded, and of which there are no written records for tax purposes? Does the Treasurer think that $ 1 billion is too high an estimate for this loss to the revenue? Additionally, does the Treasurer agree that the incidence of personal taxation is far too high in Australia, and that the ultimate aim of the tax system ought to be to reduce personal income tax to a standard rate of 32c in the dollar at the existing threshold? Finally, is it an aspiration of the Government to lower personal taxation? 
