Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that a member of the Liberal Party in another place has publicly expressed approval that the illegal regime in Rhodesia has so far survived the sanctions imposed by the United Nations? Does the Government support that expression of opinion? If not, will the Government dissociate itself from that statement so that no damage may be caused to Australia's relations with its allies and fellow Commonwealth countries which have committed themselves wholeheartedly tothis United Nations action? If the Government will not do that, does it then place less value upon continuing friendship with Malaysia, the Prime Minister of which, Tunku Abdul Rahman, has been a leading advocate of the imposition of sanctions, than it does upon being identified with the unlawful, minority, racist regime in Salisbury? 
I address to the Minister for Air a question relating to a slim volume entitled 'Tasty Recipes for West Australian Housewives' which is being distributed at present in Western Australia and which bears on the front cover the inscription 'With the compliments of  Senator Tom  Drake-Brockman'. 
It states that the recipes have been collected by the Country Party Women's Auxiliary. Is it not a fact that among the recipes within this book there is one for 'Meg's Biscuits' which calls for  i  lb of melted margarine, another for Flo's Cheesies' which calls for 4 oz of margarine softened, another for 'Pam's Caramel Slice' which calls for 8 oz of margarine or butter and another for 'Em's Salad Dressing' which calls for 6 oz of melted margarine? As the senior member of the Australian Country Party within this chamber will the Minister inform the Senate whether this indicates a change of policy on the part of the Country Party so that now it is supporting margarine interests and not the dairying industry of Western Australia? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. The Minister may recall that on 3rd March I asked him whether he agreed with the statement of the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  that he was glad that sanctions against Rhodesia had failed, and whether the Government would declare whether it wished to be allied with the illegal Smith regime in Rhodesia or with our Asian allies and fellow Commonwealth members who are committed to the policy of sanctions. In his reply the Minister said that he certainly would not make any comment about a statement which I had read in the Press until he had the advantage of reading the full text of what the honourable member had said. As a week has now passed and as I have no doubt that the Leader of the Government, with his customary diligence, will have taken the opportunity to read the complete text of what has been said, will he indicate whether the Government wishes to be identified with the statements made by  Mr McLeay  or whether it wishes Australia to maintain its friendly relations with Malaysia and Singapore? 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate seen a statement by  Colonel Khan,  the officer commanding the 5th Battalion which recently returned from South Vietnam, that there are now more North Vietnamese regular troops in South Vietnam than there were in 1966? If  Colonel Khan's  statement is correct and as one of the expressed purposes of Australia's entry into the war in Vietnam was to cause the North Vietnamese to withdraw from South Vietnam, does this not indicate a total failure of our policy in Vietnam? 
I direct to the Leader of the Government in the Senate a question relating to the decision taken by the executive of the Victorian Branch of the Australian Medical Association to reject the Government's proposals regarding a national health scheme and to refuse to hold a ballot among members of the Victorian Branch of the Australian Medical Association. In view of the Government's enthusiasm for the imposition of court controlled ballots and penal provisions upon industrial unions of workers, will it consider having a court controlled ballot within the Australian Medical Association and, in the event of the Association refusing to carry out any decisions that may be made by the Government regarding a national health scheme, will the Government consider the imposition of penal provisions upon the Australian Medical Association similar to those imposed upon the Waterside Workers Federation and other industrial organisations? Or does the Government believe that measures of this nature should be applied only to industrial unions of workers whose members are on the lower levels of income within the community and should not be applied to professional associations whose members are on the higher levels of income? 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that certain stockbrokers who are members of the Stock Exchange of Perth have sent circulars to their clients telling them that as from 19th February three provisions will be imposed upon share transactions in 
Western Australia, the first being that purchasing orders for mining and oil and related securities- 
I wish to mention a matter which I had intended to deal with earlier this afternoon by way of a question but I felt I was inhibited in doing so. It relates to a circular which has been sent out by the stockbroking firm D. J. Carmichael and Co., which is a member of the Perth Stock Exchange. I understand that similar circulars have been sent out to the clients of other stockbrokers, in particular by the firms A. C. Goode and Co., and Guest and Bell. I believe that the contents of this circular are very significant and important. The circular states: 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
For some time now the partners have been concerned by the situation existing within the securities industry in regard to processing share certificates and subsequent delays in registration and settlement. At present, despite the rapidity with which a client may purchase and dispose of securities, the physical delivery of scrip to and from your broker is in most cases months in arrears. 
Hence, while the partners recognise that these very difficult scrip conditions are general throughout the industry, they feel compelled to adopt measures to facilitate dealings for their clients. 
Basis of operation as from February 19th, 1970: 
Purchasing orders for mining and oil securities, and those industrial securities being employed as mining vehicles, must be a minimum value of $1,000 per order. 
Immediate payment for any purchase will be required by cheque, on receipt of the contract note. Unsettled purchases may result in 'selling out' action through the stock exchange. 
Proceeds of sales may be settled or employed against purchases only-- 
And the word 'only' is underlined - when selling documents are in a negotiable state. 
It is signed by D. J. Carmichael and Co. It may be that there are some problems in the Perth Stock Exchange or the Companies Office with regard to the registration of the transfer of scrip. 
Presumably that is what is referred to in paragraph (c) of the circular issued by D. J. Carmichael and Co. and the other stockbrokers to their clients. But I would suggest - I hope that I am not being unduly suspicious when I say this - that it is unlikely that the large dealers in negotiable securities are being given the same instruction, which is to the effect that they will be required to have their documents in a negotiable order before they can be presented for sale. Anybody who has any knowledge of the workings of a stock exchange would, I think, know that very often it takes many months for scrip to be delivered so that it may be negotiated. Indeed, 3 or 4 months is quite a common time for a negotiable scrip to be prepared and made available for sale. This instruction will mean that stockbrokers or the Stock Exchange will be able to act in an arbitrary manner in accepting settlements on behalf of some persons, which I am sure they will be doing, and rejecting settlements on behalf of others. 
I suggest that the requirement in paragraph (b) of the circular, which seeks immediate payment for any purchase by cheque, will be insisted upon only in the case of small purchasers of stock and not in the case of large purchasers of stock. It would seem to me to be unlikely that, when bidding is taking place at a stock exchange, the broker will be asking for a cheque to be handed to him through the door. Brokers will be unable to do that when they are making bids on behalf of their clients. The most obvious and blatant example of what the brokers are doing is to be found in paragraph (a) of the circular, which states that in the case of mining and oil securities and those industrial securities which are being employed as mining vehicles there must be a minimum value of $1,000 an order. Quite clearly any person who has a small amount of money to invest is completely precluded from taking part in the prosperity which we are told is taking place at present in Australia as a result of developments in the mineral and oil fields. Only a person who can make a bid of $1,000 will be able to purchase shares on the market while the stock exchange abides by these instructions. No doubt many people do engage in some folly in the speculative buying of shares. However, this is a folly which is endemic in the capitalist system in which we live and if people are being silly it is because they are living within a silly system. 
What  I  believe is most important is the fact that the Government - the exponent of the present system - is constantly telling us that we are living in a sociey where, through the operations of the stock market, small investors are able to buy shares and any person with a small amount of money to invest is able to share in the prosperity of the country. We are told repeatedly by the 17th century thinkers sitting opposite, who apparently feel that they have superseded the 19th century thinkers, that the arguments of their predecessors have become completely unfounded owing to the fact that the vast companies of Australia are owned by citizens in all walks of life. Whatever else may be said about the stock exchanges and whatever else may be said about the whole system of joint stock companies and the private enterprise system tinder which we live, it is quite obvious that the requirement for minimum bids of $1,000 is a complete mockery. What is being done by the stockbrokers is designed to retain the operations of the stock market in the hands of only those persons who have such considerable assets that they can afford to make minimum payments of $ 1 , 000 on each individual dealing. 
I believe that this matter speaks for itself. I would be very interested to hear from the Leader of the Government  (Senator Anderson)  or some other member of the Government whether it proposes to take any action on this matter so that the people of Australia, particularly the small investors of Australia, for as long as this system continues may be permitted to be foolish if they wish to be foolish and if they wish to may be permitted to make the profits from investments in the mineral and oil developments of this country which foreign speculators and wealthy Australian investors are at present enabled to make. 
I wish to direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it a fact that  Mr Kevin  Cairns, M.P., defeated  Mr Dobie,  M.P., for the chairmanship of the Federal Parliamentary Liberal Party's Economics and Finance Committee? Is it a fact that  Mr Kevin  Cairns stated several months ago that he would not serve in any position under the Prime Minister? Is there any truth in the statement which is reported to have been made by  Mr Dobie  that the Committee was stacked by supporters of  Mr Kevin  Cairns? In view of the fact that the Committee is now apparently under the control of opponents of the Government, will this mean a change in the Government's economic policy or will it merely mean that the splits which we have been seeing in the Liberal Party of Australia for many months past will become even more exacerbated? 
I wish to direct a question to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. Has the Minister seen reports that a coroner in Durham, England, has requested a psychiatrist to make an examination of the results of public performances given by hypnotists owing to the fact that apparently three persons have died in England following public performances given by hypnotists? In view of the fact that one of the hypnotists who apparently was involved in these productions is now in Perth where he is engaged in the production of television programmes, will the Minister request the Australian Broadcasting Control Board to investigate the matter and to make some inquiries into whether any dangers could result as was suggested by the British coroner? 
Will the Leader of the Government in the Senate ask the Minister for External Affairs to make a statement at the earliest opportunity on the present situation in Cambodia? 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation whether something could be done at Melbourne airport to cover in the early hours of the morning the large panes of glass into which persons sitting in the waiting room have to stare at that time. Although my question may seem trivial, I ask it on behalf of members of this Parliament who travel from Western Australia on what is known as the 'Midnight Horror' and arrive at Melbourne at 6 a.m. Although they are treated to a rather spectacular view when the dawn comes up like thunder, after sitting there for a couple of hours they are almost blinded and their attention to their duties in the Senate and House of Representatives is rather jeopardised by staring into the sunshine for about 2 hours, from 6 a.m. to 8 a.m., after a night spent on a plane. 
1 wish to say something about stock exchanges further to some statements I made- 
If that is to be the level of witticism coming from the opposite side I do not think I will be very bothered. I made some statements on this matter on Tuesday night. I did not wish to intervene in the debate which took place earlier this evening in case it were prolonged, but subsequent to reports appearing in the Press in Western Australia of certain statements which 1 made on Tuesday night relating to restrictions imposed by certain stockbrokers in Perth as to a 51,000 minimum amount acceptable for the purchase of shares, statements have been made by  Mr Hynam,  the  President  of the Perth Stock Exchange, which I believe require some comment. A report in the Perth Daily News' of 18th March states: 
A West Australian Labor  Senator last  night criticised stockbrokers who put a $1,000 minimum order limit on people buying mining and oil shares. 

 Senator John Wheeldon said in the Senate that a $1,000 limit would preclude small investors from the stock market. He read a circular from the Perth stockbroking firm of D. J. Carmichael &amp; Co. which imposed a $1,000 limit on clients. 1 will not repeat the rest of the matters  referred to  as they already appear in Hansard, but a comment by the 'Daily News' reads: 
Limits on the buying of speculative mining shares by new clients are imposed by many brokers throughout Australia. 
If 1 may interpolate, this obviously means that the minimum requirement which I referred to as being imposed by certain stockbrokers in Perth not only applies in Perth but is also applied by members of stock exchanges in other States of Australia. Apparently it is not only in Western Australia- 
I said: By members of stock exchanges in other States of Australia.' If  Senator Little  cannot understand English I will not assist him at this stage. I think it is a fairly clear statement. 
Apparently it is not only in Western Australia that the limits are being imposed. The newspaper report continues: 
The  Chairman  of the Perth Stock Exchange,  Mr G.  I. Hynam, said today that he did not intend to interfere even though he knew some brokers were setting minimum order limits. 
A quotation from  Mr Hynam  then appears:  1 will not interfere with the intrinsic right of a broker to conduct his business in the way he thinks fit,' he said. 
I believe that this is a very, very revealing and very serious statement for a  president  of a stock exchange to make. As I understand it, a requirement for the establishment of a stock exchange is that regulations should be imposed by that slock exchange upon the conduct of transactions by brokers. Yet here is a statement by the  President  of the Perth Stock Exchange saying that he will not interfere with any stock broker as to how he may conduct his business, and he believes that a broker may conduct his business in any way the broker thinks fit. 
 Mr Hynam  does not say that. The report states: 

 Mr Hynam, the principal of S. G. Brearley and Co., disagreed with  Senator Wheeldon's  statement that the small investor would be precluded from the stock market. 
He disagreed that the small investor would be precluded from the stock market. He is then quoted as saying: 
There has always been the stockbroker who will look after the small investor.' 
Here is an admission that certain stockbrokers do not look after the small investor. The report continues: 
This is how Perth stockbrokers reacted when asked if order limits were being set: 
J. Carmichael and Co.: 'No comment on that. No comment whatsoever'. 
Guest and Bell: 'We have no comment, other than to say  Senator Wheeldon's  comments are ill-founded.' 
I do not know what they mean by that. Either my comments are true or they are false. I do not know what they mean when they say my comments are ill-founded, as it has been admitted that a limit of $1,000 is imposed by certain stockbrokers, and I would be able to produce a letter from Guest and Bell in which this same requirement was made as was made by D. J. 
Carmichael and Co. Certain other statements were made by various stockbrokers. The purport of most of them is that they tend to make no comment at all. B. K. Newton and Co. makes this significant statement: 
Our old established clients are not limited. We usually ask any new clients for an initial order or orders totalling $1,000.' 
That is another firm of stockbrokers whose name hitherto has not been mentioned who state that they ask new clients to buy a minimum order of $1,000. In the 'West Australian' this morning, Thursday 19th March, there is a further report which quotes  Mr Hynam  as saying: 
The Exchange would act against a member firm only if the firm contravened regulations. The imposition of limits did not constitute a contravention'. 
I am reminded by the Minister that that is the point that I put to him on Tuesday night. I put it to him that it was unreasonable that such limits were being imposed and the Minister replied that this was a matter which should be dealt with by the Stock Exchange. But here is the answer of the Stock Exchange. lt does not intend to deal with it. It does not intend to make any requirements about minimum limits. In fact the Minister's answer appears to be of no value whatsoever. He said that this is a matter for the Stock Exchange to deal with its members and the Stock Exchange has said that it does not intend to deal with them. The Minister's answer has not advanced the position at all. The report in the 'West Australian' states: 
Questioned yesterday on his reaction to  Senator Wheeldon's  statement  Mr G.  I. Hynam said he understood that in the case of D. J. Carmichael and Co. the limit had been reduced from $1,000 to $500. 
The firm confirmed this.  Mr Hynam  went on to make the most amazing statement. He said: 
Brokers, like solicitors, were free to determine what business they would handle and what they would reject. 
That is one of the most ludicrous statements that one could imagine. If solicitors sent circulars to clients or to prospective clients informing them that they would not act for them unless the minimum costs to be received were ยง1,000, that would mean that the administration of justice would become a complete mockery. There is no parallel between the two instances. Certain lawyers handle certain cases in the same way that certain stockbrokers handle certain business. Clearly there is no parallel. Solicitors do not send out circulars stating that they will act for clients in litigation for which a minimum of $1,000 in costs will be paid to the solicitors. 
Of course solicitors like to know that their bills will be met. So do stockbrokers. That would be perfectly reasonable. If a businessman is approached by a person who he thinks is unlikely to be a satisfactory payer, that businessman could ask for costs in advance. That is a quite acceptable practice and one which is followed by a great many people. That is totally different from sending out a circular stating that a business will not deal with anyone unless he is prepared to pay a minimum of $1,000.  Mr Hynam  said that particular firms had a responsibility to protect their old clients by refusing some business with other clients. What happens to the open market - the free market - about which we are told? If we live in a free enterprise society in which all persons are eligible to acquire shares, why should old clients obtain some preferential treatment over new clients? Does this mean that because in the past someone has been able to invest in shares in companies they are to be given superior rights over persons who only recently acquired sufficient money to invest in companies? Is this what is being suggested by the stock exchange, which apparently is being accepted by the Minister who says that this should be left to the stock exchange?  Mr Hynam  said that clients have little to grumble about - obviously they have something to grumble about - that the limits imposed had the effect of keeping many people out of the market when they would have lost money had they been able to buy. That is extremely generous. This is the first time that I know of that the stock exchange has warned people, when they intended to buy some stocks, that they had better not buy them because they might lose some money. 
The statement is an absurd and illogical one because if the investment in the company is an unwise investment persons will lose more money if they invest over $1,000 than they would lose if they invested less than $1,000. Not only does it prevent people from losing money if the investment turns out to be unsatisfactory; it also prevents people who can invest only a small amount from gaining some return if the investment turns out to be successful. Although it may be said that the person who can invest only $50 is prevented by this rule from losing his $50 if the investment turns out to be unsatisfactory, equally the person who could have invested S50 is prevented from making any gain on his investment of $50. That means that the open market, which we have been told exists, does not exist. The opportunity for citizens to take part in the great development that is taking place is limited to those persons who are able to provide $1,000 for a bill. This is a very substantial sum. 
The point raised by  Senator Little  is that this would be the position if they were the only stockbrokers operating but that there are other stockbrokers operating. If a limitation of this nature is being imposed, it means that those persons who wish to make investments of less than $1,000 have this limitation imposed on them. 
If they want lo make investments smaller than $1,000, they have to try to find a broker who will accept that investment. I realise that  Senator Little,  who is interjecting, is very knowledgeable on these matters, but I prefer not to discuss them with him now. The other points I raised, which relate to the production of negotiable scrip upon a salestill have not been dealt with in the answer given by the  President  of the Stock Exchange, nor has the point about immediate payment by cheque. I still challenge the Stock Exchange to show that the same demands are being made upon all investors - that is, that negotiable scrip should be produced before there can be a sale or that immediate payment by cheque should be obligatory on anybody who wishes to make a purchase. It would seem to be quite clear, from the number of brokers who have imposed these restrictions, that the availability of brokers to small investors is at least very much less than the availability to people who wish to make big investments. The smaller investors are not being given the opportunity to invest in what is supposed to be a great mineral and oil boom. Even if one accepts  Senator Little's  point that some brokers do cater for small investors, the fact still remains that it is much more difficult for a small investor to place his money in the stock market than it is for a big investor. I would be interested to know if the policy of the Democratic Labor Party is that the interests of the big investor should be looked after but that the interests of the small investor should be subjugated to the interests of the big investor. 
I have a louder voice than the honourable senator has. If he is saying that some stockbrokers take investments from small investors, I do not dispute that But the fact remains that the large investors are being given rights which are not available to the smaller investors. This is a very serious limitation on the rights of the general public to share in whatever profits are coming to Australia and to Australian investors as a result of the developments which have taken place. The matter is  a  very serious one. I believe that it should be considered by the Government. 
I am glad that  a  committee was established to inquire into such matters because obviously this matter should be considered by that committee. The matter is a most serious one indeed. A large number of stockbrokers not only are precluding investors with less than $1,000 from making any investment at all but are insisting upon the production of negotiable scrip before  a  sale takes place. The  President  of the Stock Exchange of Perth has not referred to that insistence which, I am quite certain, is made only in the case of the small investors or in the case of people who are not established clients. The matters are serious ones. The reason why I raised them was because on Tuesday night the Minister said that it was a matter for the Stock Exchange to deal with and clearly, by the answer of the  President  of the Stock Exchange of Perth, it has no intention of dealing with this matter at all. 
I wish to raise once again a matter concerning operations of certain stockbroking firms in Western Australia and the attitude taken by the Stock Exchange in Perth to the operations of those firms of stockbrokers. I realise that this is a matter which is not directly under the authority of this Parliament, and I realise also that it is a matter which will no doubt be dealt with in the reasonably near future by the Senate select committee which will be appointed to inquire into stock exchange operations in Australia. However, I wish to raise this matter because I believe that the Senate, in considering some very important problems relating to our economy, should be aware of what has been happening in Western Australia, particularly as regards the attitude which has been adopted by firms of stockbrokers in the city of Perth to small investors and the lack of action by the Stock Exchange of Perth to protect those small investors who wish to participate, whether wisely or unwisely, in what they regard as being a profitable market in stocks and shares in those companies which are, or have been until very recently, making considerable profits out of the extraction of Australian mineral wealth. 
I have received a letter dated 20th March from  Mr K.  W. Bates of Post Office residence, Boulder, Western Australia. As I believe that this letter speaks for itself, I should like to read itto the Senate. Out of modesty I shall not inflict the first 2 paragraphs on the Senate because these are largely given over to commendations of my own virtues which, although I am sure that  Senator Wright  would be interested to hear them, are not strictly relevant to the matter in hand.  Mr Bates  writes: 
Some weeks ago I desired to buy 3,000 Seeko Nickel NL shares at 20c on the original issue. I was notified through Press and personal contacts that stockbroker R. M. Black and Associates would be handling the issue. I applied to R. M. Black and Associates for a prospectus, well before opening date, by 3 channels. 
Personal approach to the stockbrokers office by my brother who made more than  1  visit, the last occasion being the day they were actually posting out the prospectus booklets. He lodged my name and address and was given an assurance that a prospectus would be forwarded. There was never any contact from Blacks to me from this channel. 
I wrote direct to Black and Associaties myself requesting a prospectus and information on the issue. I enclosed a stamped addressed envelope. No result, not even the  courtesy of an acknowledgment or an answer. (I did however receive a roneoed rejection of my application - quite late - and using my original stamped envelope!) 
An approach through the bank manager of the Bank of NSW, Wongan Hills (my last appointed station) who managed to obtain a prospectus on the date sales opened. 
I completed theprospectus and forwarded it immediately with my cheque. I followed this up with telegraphic advice to Seeko that the application was forwarded. 
The fact that I missed out on the original issue is now past history. What annoyed me was the total ignoring of my requests by Black and Associates. I wrote a letter of complaint to Blacks which has also been ignored. 
I then wrote to the Stock Exchange in Perth, protesting that I was given no chance in the original issue through Blacks handling of thecase. The reply from the Stock Exchange is abrupt to the point of rudeness and I attach a copy for your information. 
I again wroteto the Stock Exchange protesting their attitude, and my protect was once again rejected - copy of this is also attached. 
One is left with the feeling of beating one's head against a brick wall (of big businessmen) and getting nowhere. Surely the firm has failed to honour their commitment. When an issue is announced everyone should be given a chance to apply, even if the powers that be may have already decided who is going to get the issue. 
A letter from the  chairman  of Seeko tells me thatknowing what it is like with other issues handled by brokers I don't deal with personally, it is almost impossible to receive an allocation from them, andI would imagine that R. M. Black's allocations, whichI might add were restricted by my Board to a maximum of 200 shares per person, would definitely have gone to his trading clients'. 
If I may interpolate, that is from the  chairman  of the Seeko company who personally said that this is the position which is taken by stockbrokers, that they allocate shares of this nature to their own clients and do not make them fully available to people who wish to invest on the open market in companies of this kind. The letter from  Mr Bates  continued: 
With the large number issued, it is only natural to wonder how many of his 'clients' received 200, and who else got them. 
Owing to the present system of blocking the little man adopted by these stockbrokers (shortage of time and staff is rubbish - we all have those problems and still provide a service). . . . 
J shall not read the remainder of  Mr Bates'  letter because 1 believe that he has set out the facts. However. I shall read the letter dated 3rd March 1970 from  Mr J.  Verreck for G. P. Tomlinson, Acting Secretary of the Stock Exchange, Perth, in which he says 
Dear  Sir. 
Re your letter of 27th February 1970. The facts as you have staled in your endeavour to acquire shares in the new flotation of Seeko Nickel NL are by  no  means uncommon. Surely you must consider it rather selfish to expect a film to accommodate you  when  you  are  not  even  a client of that firm.  In the  light of the above,  I  am sure you will agree that really there is nothing to follow up in this case. Thank you, however, for your inquiry. 
I should like to comment on this letter that if we are saying that there is an open market in shares in Australia, if we are saying that whatever wealth there is to be derived from the boom which is taking place in Australia is available to everyone, what an absurd and preposterous piece of effrontery is this letter from the Stock Exchange in which it is said that it is unreasonable for any person to acquire shares unless he is already a client of a stockbroking firm. That is to say that unless one is already established as an investor, one is never going to become an investor; that only those people who in the past have participated in share issues are going to be able to participate in future, if the Stock Exchange has anything to do with it. The second letter written by the secretary of. the Stock Exchange to  Mr Bates  is dated 6th March 1970. it reads as follows: 
I have discussed your  letter  of 5th March with my Vice-Chairman who has instructed me to reply to you as follows.  It  is well appreciated that with the present interest in nickel and mineral flotations very many people endeavour to receive  an  allotment from each  new  flotation.  As  is required under the listing requirements of the Australian Associated Stock Exchanges, brokers handling the flotations endeavour  to  make as wide as possible distribution of the shares as is practical. The present demand, however, precludes satisfaction for all applicants. 
Again, ifI. may interpolate, the secretary of the Stock Exchange is saying that the endeavour is to make as wide as possible a participation in the shares that are available, when clearly in his own previous letter and in the letter from Blacks this is not the case. They are not trying to make as wide as possible participation in the issue of shares; they are taking care to see that only those people who are established purchasers of shares through stockbrokers will be able to purchase shares in future. This is not as wide as possible; this is as narrow as possible. The letter continues: 
It is regretted that you cannot understand the brokers protecting their established clientele. 
This would seem to contradict the previous paragraph. It continues:  but it is surely only a matter of sound business practice to protect, in the first instance, those  clients who have long term established contacts with the broker handling an issue. Similarly, the broker endeavours to offer as many shares as is practicable- 
Whatever that may mean -  to other brokerage houses  so  that the clients  of  those houses can participate in the issue. The individual allotments are made subject to the directors approval and the brokers are endeavouring  to  spread the new flotations as widely across the market as they can. Notwithstanding their endeavour  in  this field, there will always be some investors who are not fortunate enough to receive an allocation. 
There will be some investors who will never be fortunate enough to receive an allocation if the policy of serving only established clients is followed. The letter continues: 
We note your remarks that you will take this matter up with the Press and possibly your local member. We regret that you find the circumstances such as to justify this action but of course we concede as your privilege. 
Yours faithfully, 
P. Tomlinson 
Acting Secretary 
Having received  this correspondence from 

 Mr Bates I sent  copies of it to  R. M.  Black  and  Associates  and  the Stock. Exchange of Perth.  I  do  not  wish to read  the  reply from R. M. Black and Associates, which is, in general terms, the same as the reply from the Vice-Chairman of the Perth Stock Exchange. The Vice-Chairman's  letter, which  is  dated 3rd  April 1970,  states: 
Dear  Senator, 
Thank you for your letter of 1st April 1970. 

 Mr K.. W. Bates's second letter to the Exchange dated 5th March 1970, was referred tothe writer for investigation.  His  findings revealed no irregularity under the Companies Act 1962-68 or the Rules and Regulations of the Stock Exchange of Perth. 
It is regretted that a busy person such as yourself should be harassed by the pique  of  an individual, but undoubtedly this is one of the day to day hazards of ahard working politician's life. 
You may rest assured that this Exchange does endeavour to maintain an orderly and equitable market at all times. However, you will also readily appreciate that much of a market boom or crash is based on human emotion, greed, fear and panic have all been seen in the market from time to time. No legislation, statutory or voluntary can control these human factors. 
The Exchange does endeavour (as you will undoubtedly appreciate) to minimise the effect of these influences as best as is humanly possible. 
The letter is signed by Bernard A. Wright, Vice-Chairman of the Stock Exchange of Perth. I could not agree more with him, that when one examines the capitalist system in general and, in particular, in stock exchanges one finds that greed, fear and panic are seen in the market from timeto time. In fact,I think we are seeing the signs of the latter very clearly at the moment. The point  Mr Wright  is endeavouring to make, ifI follow him correctly, is that  the  purpose of the Stock Exchange is in some strange way to prevent greed, fear and panic from influencing the market. If this is  the  case one can only conclude that one is at a disadvantage in being  one  of its clients because if  one  is one of its clients the Stock Exchange will sell one the shares when  one  asks for them, thereby allowing one  to  become involved in this greed, fear and panic. The Slock Exchange is so altruistic  that  it will protect those people who are not its clients and save them from greed, fear and panic, but the Stock Exchange will not save its clients from greed, fear and panic. This is one of the most specious and absurd arguments I have ever read. If greed, fear and panic are involved why will  the  Stock Exchange allocate shares only  to  certain people who have established accounts with it and who, I should imagine, are substantial buyers of shares. 
I do not think there is a great dealto add in relation to this matter, but I believe that the attention of the Senate should be drawn to the fact that, although we are supposed to be operating in a free market economy where it is said that the strength of the present euphemistically described private enterprise system is that everybody can participate in this great wealth and that the day of the single capitalist or the small oligarchy controlling a group of combines is gone, that everybody can now share in the risks, adventure, profits, losses, panic, greed  - it  is open to all - as we have now discovered from R. M. Black and Associates and the Stock Exchange of Perth, the only people who  can  share in the greed, panic and fear  are  their own established clients. If greed, panic and fear are such desirable qualities that they are to  be  reserved only  for  established clients I believe action should be taken to ensure that every citizen  has  the same  right  to participate in  the  greed, panic  andfear  as has  been  available to  the  stockbrokers  and  their friends so that everybody  may  suffer the same dire consequences from this greed, panic and fear as  Mr Hancock  and  Mr Wright,  to name 2 prominent citizens of Western Australia. 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate seen reports that the National Advisory Committee on Drugs has recommended certain amendments to the laws relating to drug offences, including increases of certain penalties? Can the Minister assure the Senate that no action will be taken by the Government to introduce amendments to the laws relating to drug offences until the report of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse has been presented to the Senate? 
I would like to direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs. In view of the action taken by the Melbourne police against the former British Conservative Party candidate for the House of Commons,  Mr Jimmy  Edwards, will the Minister cause his departmental officers overseas to advise any entertainers who may be visiting Australia for the purpose of performing in Melbourne that whatever else the Victorian police force will tolerate one thing it will not stand for is the use of indecent language? 
1 rise in this debate as a sponsor of the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign and as one of those people who have been accused, as is the pattern in these matters, of treachery to their country. We have been accused of committing acts of violence or in organising and inciting the commission of acts of violence because we have been prepared to speak out against the continuation of this war in Vietnam. We were told tonight by  Senator Greenwood  that he was raising for discussion a matter of some urgency. It appears to me that it would be a matter of considerable urgency if in fact there were incitements to break the law and incitements to commit violence in the street. This matter is taken so seriously by the Government and it is so impressed by the arguments that so far we have heard from two honourable senators on the Government side. The Opposition is prepared to stay here all night and everyone of us who is a sponsor of the Moratorium Campaign is prepared to get up and make his position clear. We are not afraid of the smears which are cast at us by anybody on the other side of this chamber. I do wish that if  Senator Sim  were to interject there would be some level of witticism in what he says. 
Do you want to have another try? I will let the honourable senator have another go. 1 would like to say to the honourable senator that he is improving, but 1 am afraid that I cannot do so.  Senator Greenwood  has raised this matter because he is very concerned about violence. Violence has not as yet taken place, but he is very seriously concerned about it. When  Senator Brown  showed him some scenes of actual violence what did  Senator Greenwood  do? He grinned. He grinned; he found the situation highly amusing. On a previous occasion when the names of dead Australians were read out, he also found that very amusing. 1 would not want to comment on what personal problems  Senator Greenwood  may have, but  Senator Greenwood  consistently accuses honourable senators on this side of the House of lack of patriotism. One would almost think that he would apply for honorary membership of the Returned Services' League. He continuously makes imputations against the honour and patriotism of men in this country who have given positive proof of their patriotism. I have not done so. I was too young to serve in the Second World War and I have not the slightest intention of going to the Vietnam war. I believe in one fundamental principle. It is that when there is a war on a person of military age does not send somebody else to do something that he is not prepared to do himself. One should not stand up and harry men when one is in that position. There would be one less conscript if the honourable senator were prepared to go instead of staying here and berating others. 
Why are the members of the Liberal Party not here tonight to support die 2 Government senators who have spoken on this issue?  Senator Greenwood  has been a little naive about this matter. He complained this morning that the Press had not taken this matter very seriously. Of course the Press does not take it very seriously now. I would like to be able to say that the great mass of the Australian people has now been convinced that a mere smear of anybody who opposes the Government, alleging that he is a Communist or a traitor, lacks any foundation. Unfortunately, a great many people are still impressed by this sort of argument; but at least journalists and people with some experience have heard it so often that they are too tired to print it again. Look at the number of journalists present here tonight listening to this debate. Why are there so few of them here? Serious charges were raised by  Senator Greenwood  and he was followed by  Senator Rae.  They spoke about the alleged lack of patriotism of people on this side of the House. The Press has as little interest in this matter as members of the Liberal Party have. 
I rose to speak on this matter primarily because I want to say something about what I believe is a debasement of any real democracy in this country by the smearers and character assassins who attack this movement. There have been great moratorium demonstrations and Vietnam mobilisation demonstrations throughout the whole of the United States, and they were supported by the United States Communist Party, in the same way as our moratorium in Australia is being supported by the Australian Communist Party. I want to say that I would be prepared to stand on the platform with any person who is opposed to this cruel, vicious and filthy war in Vietnam, no matter what political party he belonged to, and I would stand against anybody and regard him as the enemy of humanity and the enemy of the Australian people if he supports the war in Vietnam. I want to make my position perfectly clear. 
Here is the great patriot. 
I am. 
-I would not care if I were the only person there, apart from members of the Communist Party. I would still go if it were in opposition to the war in Vietnam. 1 would be prepared to be the only person there with members of the Communist Party, because I believe that this issue is of such great importance. I only hope that honourable senators opposite are beginning to fail in this matter. They are debasing public life in Australia. When these mobilisations were held throughout the United Stales of America, great masses of people took part in them. I will not refer to scientists or artists or writers because I know for one thing that very few honourable senators opposite would have heard of them and the answer would be: 'Oh, he is a Communist,' in the same way as  Senator Sim  said that a psychiatrist at the Yale University was a Communist. Let us not discuss the great artists, the great writers- 
I accept  Senator Sim's  assurance that he has never said that anybody was a Communist. I only hope he will continue that practice in the future. 
Oh, the reserve speaks up. When the great mobilisation was held throughout the United States, prominent members of the United States Congress took part. There were people such as  Senator McGovern,  a highly decorated former bomber pilot in the United States Air Force, whose experience of war was not vicarious, but real. One of the leaders of the Vietnam mobilisation in the United States and of the Vietnam moratorium in the United States was  Senator George  McGovern, a war hero of the Second World War. There were also  Senator McCarthy  and  Senator Cranston.  One could go through a large number of members of the United States Senate and United States House of Representatives. MrLindsay, the Mayor of New York, marched at the head of the parade through New York in support of the Vietnam mobilisation and, despite a certain measure of smearing - nothing compared with what honourable senators opposite would do tonight - he was re-elected Mayor of New 
York. Although  Mr Agnew  and the extreme people inside the Republican Party - I regard them as the worst people inside the Republican Party - have attacked a number of people inside the peace movement, inside the Vietnam moratorium and inside the Vietnam mobilisation, they have not had the audacity to accuse  Senator McGovern, Mr Lindsay, Senator McCarthy  or Professor Galbraith, a former United States Ambassador to India under  President  Kennedy, or  Mr Moyes,  a former special adviser to  President  Johnson and one of the national organisers of the Vietnam mobilisation and the Vietnam moratorium, of in any way being treacherous or subversive. At least, the people within the United States, the leadership within the United States and the people within Congress, when they know that their colleagues within Congress are actively participating in a great mass movement like this, are prepared to accept the right to protest as a democratic right. They accept it as a democratic right and they do not try to brand their colleagues. None of them - not  Mr Nixon  nor  Mr Agnew  - has ever tried to brand  Senator Cranston  or  Senator McGovern  or  Mr Lindsay  or Professor Galbraith or anybody else like that of being subversive or treacherous, or a Communist. Not one of them has been branded. When we sometimes hear from honourable senators opposite that we should go all the way with LBJ and how we ought to imitate the American alliance, one of the things I do wish they would try to imitate from the United States is the constitutional guarantees to people's freedom of action and the refusal to smear people which is engaged in by people like  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Rae.  They make their contribution to the Vietnam war by besmirching the character of other mcn and by grinning at pictures of war dead. I have no wish to be associated with them, and I say it frankly as 1 have said on previous occasions. 
I withdraw it. But I do not withdraw the remark that the honourable senator has tried to make his career by assassinating the characters of other people, by destroying the reputations of other men and by debasing any democratic quality of life that remains in this country. He and  Senator Greenwood  are endeavouring to build their careers- 
If the honourable senator wishes to interject I wish he would do it orderly, because I think I could handle him without much trouble. This is an important matter and it goes even beyond the importance of the Vietnam war, serious as it is. I refer to the endeavour which is being made to intimidate people out of exercising ordinary democratic rights by accusing them of being parties to violence, of being treacherous and of being subversive. 1 can assure  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Rae  - we have not heard from anybody else on the other side- 
We are going to, are we? We are not going to be intimidated by the actions of these people. We are not frightened of them. We are sponsors of the Vietnam Moratorium and we intend to remain sponsors of the Vietnam Moratorium.  Senator Greenwood  interjected and asked about the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives. He has made his position perfectly clear, and that is that he believes that as Leader of the Party he should not act as a sponsor of any organisation not controlled by the Party. He has made his position quite clear and when the Canberra mobilisation is he'd he will be out addressing the Canberra mobilisation. That is the position of the Leader of the Party on this issue. We are not going to be intimidated. We are going to support the Campaign to end this war. This war is going Vo end. When it does end we are going to be justified by history that we were correct about this matter, and the only recollection of people like  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Rae  will be that while a great world struggle was tatong place their only contribution was to smear and besmirch and denigrate the characters of those people who were prepared to stand up and declare their opposition to this monstrosity against mankind. 

 Senator GREENWOOD (Victoria) - I rise to make a personal explanation. I was accused by  Senator Wheeldon  of having said that people, amongst them members of the Senate, were treacherous and subversive and had engaged in character assassination. I did no such thing, as a reading of what I said tonight will prove positively. Insofar as  Senator Wheeldon  has said that I said those things, it is a mass of extravagant inaccuracies. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Does the Government intend to allow the present sales of Australian wheat to Rhodesia to continue. 
What justification is there for the submission that the United Nations resolutions on Rhodesian sanctions do not apply to these wheat sales as the wheat is exported to Rhodesia for humanitarian purposes. 
Does the Government believe that the money received from these wheat sales is in any way commensurate with the damage done to Australia's relations with Asian, African and other countries committed to the removal of the illegal racist regime in Salisbury. 
All of the leaders of the Party; the Leader and  Deputy  Leader of the Party in the House of Representatives, and the Leader and  Deputy  Leader of the Party in the Senate. We are opposed to the continuation of the war in IndoChina. We support the Moratorium Campaign because we believe that what is happening in Vietnam and Cambodia is - whatever else it may be doing in those countries - poisoning the entire life of the American and Australian people. Our societies are being torn asunder. Our con.tries are being corrupted. Our people are being brutalised because of the continuation of the United States and Australian participation in this aggression in Vietnam and Cambodia. We call for the withdrawal of Australian troops from Vietnam because we believe that a continuation of Australian participation in this war is wrong, first of all because of the bloodshed which is taking place as a result of our intervention, secondly because of the hypocrisy with which every action of this Government in this struggle has been tainted, and thirdly because of the total stupidity of this Government and of the United States Administration in the policies which they have followed in Indo-China. 
Little needs to be said about the bloodshed which has taken place in Indo-China, not only amongst the Vietnamese and now the Cambodian people, but also amongst the Americans and Australian conscripts. Plenty may be said about the hypocrisy. We were told that we went into this war in Vietnam in order to withstand the downward thrust of Chinese Communism: that behind the National Liberation Front in South Vietnam stood Hanoi, and behind Hanoi stood the Communist Government in 
Peking. We were told this by a government which at the very same time boasted of the amount of trade which it had with China, the very country which it claimed to be defending the Australian people from. We have had hypocrisy shown in selective conscription, whereby only certain 20-year-olds are sent away to fight, while other young heroes of military age can use the sanctuary of the Senate and the public platforms in order to blackguard their less fortunate fellow Australians who have had the courage to withstand the penal provisions of the National Service Act, have acted according to their consciences and have not merely skulked in cowardice behind privilege in order to attack those people who have acted with the courage of their convictions - a courage which they themselves would show only if they were to go around to the recruiting office and put their money where their mouth is. 
We are opposed to the hypocrisy of this war which is shown by the policy of 'business as usual', whereby there is no declaration of war and whereby, as  Senator Willesee  has said, there is no general demand being made on the Australian community to make any sacrifice for the Australian participation in the war. All of the burden of war is being unloaded on to a certain small group of young men who are being conscripted and on to their families. It is a hypocritical war because there has been no declaration of war. We still do not know what our war aims are in Vietnam or in Cambodia. We still do not know what sort of stage has to be reached before we can say that we can withdraw from it. I remember what  Senator George  Aiken, a very conservative Republican member of the United States Senate, said only a few years ago - 
Private Gair has returned from active service. I understand that he is enjoying his rest and recreation leave in the Senate. What  Senator Aiken  said was this - and I think it is something that ought to be repeated: As nobody knows what the United States is trying to do inside Vietnam, the best course for the United States Administration to follow would be to declare that it had won the war and withdraw all the troops immediately. Nobody would be able to judge whether it had won the war or lost lt because nobody would know. A lot of lives would be saved, and so would America's face. 
We are opposed to the stupidity of this war. We were supposed to be sending troops into Vietnam in order to stop the dominoes from falling over, according to that famous domino theory. But now, as a result of 6 years of American troops and 5 years of Australian troops being in Vietnam, we find that the conflict is no longer confined to Vietnam, but has now spread to Cambodia. 
Cambodia was a neutral country until the overthrow of Prince Sihanouk. 
If  Senator Gair  says that Prince Sihanouk is a self-confessed Communist, I feel that  Senator Gair  needs to say no more to illustrate his knowledge of the subject. I think he can leave it at that. 
Cambodia, which was a neutral country, is now a country which is as much convulsed with war as is Vietnam itself. It is convulsed with war as a result of the invasion which has taken place by the United States and South Vietnamese Government forces. This is an invasion because those forces have not entered Cambodia as a result of any invitation from the Cambodian Government. No invitation has been received from the Cambodian Government. I am sure that  Senator Gair,  who is continually interjecting, will have an opportunity to bore  us  later. I wish that he would not interrupt me at the present time. No invitation has been received from the Cambodian Government - even the reactionary Cambodian Government of Lon Nol which deposed the neutral Government of Prince Sihanouk which was in office for many years.  President  Nixon has now announced that he intends to withdraw 
United States troops from Cambodia in 8 weeks time. What absurd situation have we reached now? We have gone into Cambodia. We have convulsed another country in war. We have defied the Government of that country. 
The United States has. Our ally has and our Government supports it. I am glad  Senator Branson  wishes to dissociate himself from this, and I will accept his apology. The situation in Cambodia is that even the Lon Nol Government, which is opposed completely to the policies followed by Prince Sihanouk, has not welcomed the United States or the South Vietnamese into that country. The war has been expanded. It is because of matters such as these that the Australian people intend to protest as part of the Moratorium movement. 
Similar protests have been held throughout the United States of America. The standard of debate in the United States Senate is rather more sophisticated than the standard that one would expect from  Senator Greenwood  or  Senator Gair.  People like  Senator Cranston  from California,  Senator McGovern  and  Senator Nelson  have taken part in the Moratorium movement in the United States. They are not people of the ilk of  Senator Greenwood,  the military man, or  Senator Gair  who resort to the level of smearing those people in this country who intend to take part in the same activity. There has been considerable violence in the United States but it has been a product of the violence taking place in Vietnam and Cambodia. Never once has any allegation been made by any responsible American administration spokesman that  Senator Cranston, Senator McGovern,  Mayor Lindsay or Professor Galbraith,  President  Kennedy's former Ambassador to the United Nations, are in some way subversive or are trying to undermine the American way of life, 
We believe that this protest has to take place because it is only by the people going out into the streets and showing how they feel that changes can be brought about in the policies of this Government. There can be no doubt that the demonstrations which have taken place in the United States of America have played a substantial part in the defeat of  President  Johnson and in the limited changes in policy which have been undertaken by  President  Nixon. This afternoon  Senator Wright  airily talked about the lawful right to free assembly. The lawful right to free assembly would never have been achieved if it had not been for unlawful actions in the first place. The Magna Carta would never have been signed if certain barons had not acted unlawfully against King John. The Court of the Star chamber would still exist if people like Pym and Hampden had complied with the law and paid their ship money. But they did not do so. There would not be as many civil rights for black people in the United States, as there are at present, if it had not been for the campaigns of passive resistance by brave men such as Martin Luther King. There still would not be civil rights for a very vast section of the population of Northern Ireland if it were not for the civil rights movement which is taking place in Northern Ireland at present. Australian people will take the same kind of action to see that the Government and the rest of the people- know that they are just as opposed to what is a brutal and unjust war as are the people of the United Stales and the people of other countries who have made similar protests. 
We do not doubt that there will be misrepresentation. We are interested to hear this talk about violence.  Senator Wright  had something to say about Nazis. But there has been no condemnation coming from  Senator Greenwood  or  Senator Wright  of statements by leading members of the socalled Australian Nazi Party that chey intend to disrupt the Moratorium proceedings when they are held. Nobody has condemned that kind of violence. In fact the misrepresentation is so great that  Senator Greenwood  today told us that Victoria will be without fire services on Friday when the Moratorium Campaign is taking place. 1 have received a message from  Mr Webber,  the State Secretary of the Victorian Firefighters' Union, pointing out that he has stated repeatedly that normal services such as attending fires and answering telephone calls will be maintained during the Moratorium Campaign although those firemen who are available have been urged to take part in the Moratorium demonstrations. That statement was repeated in this morning's 'Age' in answer to a statement which had been made by  Senator Greenwood. Senator 
Greenwood has repeated his statement here.  Senator Greenwood  is able to do this because of his parliamentary immunity.  His  statement is typical of the slanderous misrepresentation of people who are prepared totake a stand on the side of peace in Vietnam. 
Before I close I refer to a statement made in South Africa recently. In the South African general election held two weeks ago, a number of supporters of apartheid, members of the Nationalist Party, were defeated. One of the new members,  Mr Martin  Stephens, is the youngest person ever to have been a member of the South African Parliament. He is a member of the United Party. He won a seat from the powerful Nationalist Party of  Mr Vorster,  the Prime Minister of South Africa. Martin Stephens is a conservative Afrikaner. He is a devoted member of one of the stricter branches of the Dutch Reformed Church. He was elected to the South African Parliament to represent a seat which had been held by the Nationalists until that election. He said: 'People only resort to violence when they cannot get satisfaction from the ordinary processes of government. And the Government must have attained legitimacy in the minds of the people. It must be receptive to all sections of the community.' This Government is not receptive to anything like all sections of the community. It has lost any claim it had to legitimacy because it supports unlawful actions in Cambodia and Vietnam. We find that in South Africa a white man elected to represent a wholly white electorate in that Parliament is prepared to take a more honest and honourable stand in support of Western democratic values than any of the representatives of this Government who sit before us today. In the struggle around the Vietnam Moratorium movement we are not alone. We have many friends. 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government, refers to statements which have been reported to have been made by  Sir Reginald  Sholl, the former ConsulGeneral for Australia in New York, to the effect that the present problems in the United States may be attributed largely to the fact that Jews own newspapers in that country. Will the Government make it clear that, despite the official position that  Sir Reginald  once held, the same anti-semitic views are not held by the Australian Government 
 I wish to make only a few remarks on this Bill which, as has already been pointed out by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  and  Senator Devitt,  the Australian Labor Party is supporting. I personally am supporting it very largely for the reasons that  Senator Greenwood  has put forward this afternoon. I believe that the Senate is indebted to him for the attention he has given to this Bill and for the many math-re which he has brought to the notice of the Senate and of which I should imagine most of us would not have been aware - at least in this context - until he spoke this afternoon. 
Let me refer briefly to several reasons why I believe this Bill should be supported and passed. 1 hope,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  that you will not mind if I appear to digress a little from the strict terms of the Bill. One of its most important characteristics is that provision is made in it for additional assistance to be given to members of the Parliament to act as legislators. One of the weaknesses in the system of parliamentary government as it operates in this country is the very small amount of staff available to members of Parliament to enable them to engage in proper research, to study Bills that are being presented to Parliament, to prepare Bills and to prepare amendments to Bills, in the past we have had a quite absurd situation in which members of Parliament, who have not only a large number of constituency matters to deal with but also quite burdensome extraparliamentary duties within their political parties and elsewhere, have had to operate with virtually no assistance whatsoever in attending to the matters which come before the Parliament or which should come before the Parliament. 1 do not make these criticisms in any partisan way. I believe that the most substantia] improvements that have been made in this direction have been made over the past few years, first of all, with the increases in staff in the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library whose officers have been made available to members of the Parliament for research into different fields of human activity, and now by the establishment of the Office of Parliamentary Counsel. I do not say that this means that all of our problems are solved or that there is yet anything like a satisfactory state of affairs in which we can operate effectively as legislators; but certainly this is a step that is very well along the road in the right direction. 
Another point*- 1 wish to make it only briefly - is in regard to the establishment of the Office of Parliamentary Counsel itself. I hope that it will not be taken that in what I am saying I am reflecting in any way on the people who at present occupy the various offices of parliamentary draftsmen, because that is not my intention or my wish. But it has seemed to me, as 1 think it has seemed to a number of other lawyers, that in the past and until this Bill was introduced the status of parliamentary draftsman within the whole hierarchy of legal practitioners has been absurdly low. Although  Senator Devitt  said earlier that he thought the work could become tedious, 1 can well imagine that for a person interested in the law one of the most fascinating branches of it could be the job of acting as a draftsman in preparing legislation, regulations and ordinances. 
Whether it is fascinating or not fascinating, this certainly is 1 of the most important occupations that any lawyer can follow, because upon the ability and knowledge of the lawyer who is drafting the piece of legislation depends quite often the validity of the law itself, the manner in which it has to be applied and also whether the intention of the legislature is properly conveyed by the legislation when it ultimately appears on the statute book. Certainly in some of the States there have been occasions on which judges and counsel have found it almost impossible to understand what has been meant by a particular piece of legislation, i do not think that has ever occurred with regard to the Commonwealth Parliament. There have been occasions when one could find a battery of senior counsel sitting before eminent members of the judiciary arguing about the meaning of a section of an Act. The reason why there is some difficulty about the section of the Act is that the person who drafted that section did not have the competence to write a proper sentence. To me it seems anomalous that in one of the mast important branches of the law, that is the actual writing of the law, something like equivalent status is not given, in the eyes of the profession, to the persons who actually write the law, as is given to those who practice and interpret the law. 1 do not wish to reflect on our parliamentary draftsmen, but it does seem at the present time that most of the people who become parliamentary draftsmen have tended, in some way, to drift into the occupation of parliamentary draftsman. I do not mean that in any way pejoratively. I mean it is very seldom that anybody sets out upon a legal career with the ambition of becoming a parliamentary draftsman. It is generally through a series of circumstances that one becomes a draftsman. Very frequently those people who are draftsmen are looking for promotion into other fields of the law. This is not to say that some of the most eminent lawyers in this country are nol draftsmen because there are certainly very eminent lawyers among the draftsmen. I would certainly agree with  Senator Greenwood  that this Office of Parliamentary Counsel, whatever the salary may be should have some independence from the Public Service Board. I think the arguments  Senator Greenwood  raised on this matter are very compelling arguments. 
I think the status of the draftsman ar Parliamentary Counsel is being enhanced by this Bill, but if it is to be further enhanced one can envisage a time when what 1 believe is a desirable state of affairs will have been obtained; that is when people enter into a study of the law for the purpose of becoming draftsmen and not any other purpose; for the purpose of writing laws, not to become advocates, solicitors or even judges for that matter, but giving their lives and their skills to the preparation of legislation which is an essential part of democratic government. Laws should be as clear, as precise and as explicit as they possibly can be. In order for this to be the case one needs to have singularly well qualified and gifted lawyers operating as draftsmen and counsel. I have spoken at greater length than I had intended to. In conclusion, I believe that this Bill which the Opposition is supporting brings about a desirable improvement in the operations of this Parliament and also iti the manner in which the laws of this country are to be dealt with. Along with other members of the Australian Labor Party I welcome this Bill. 
I address my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the fact that on 8th, 9th and 10th May many thousands of Australian citizens took part in Moratorium demonstrations throughout Australia which were conducted in a peaceful atmosphere despite many provocations offered to those taking part, will the Government apologise to the organisers of the Moratorium for the slanders which, before the demonstrations took place, were heaped on the heads of the people taking part in the movement? 
I have not ducked away from it. 
I find it very difficult to understand what  Senator Young  is saying at the best of times. I do not intend to pursue his interjections at present. I propose to say what I intend to say and that is that we have seen the Government trying to suppress free discussion by the branding of those people who come out peaceably to make their demonstrations, despite the provocations of people like  Senator Greenwood  who desires to build a career by the destruction of other men's characters. I have heard no apology from  Senator Greenwood  regarding the matter of the alleged molotov cocktails being made in Adelaide, which allegation he accepted so readily. Honourable senators opposite have tried to discredit members of the Opposition by associating their names with people who carried Vietcong flags. Honourable senators opposite have accused us of subversion through guilt by association. 
When  Senator Cotton  spoke this afternoon I interjected that if it can bc said that because a number of members of the Australian Labor Party were associated with the Moratorium and because certain persons in the Moratorium demonstrations carried Vietcong flags, ipso facto, the Australian Labor Party in the Federal Parliament supports the Vietcong, I do not sec how this statement cannot be made just as easily: As the Australian Nazi Party supports the Vietnam war and as the people who organised the violent assaults, in many instances, and attacks on Moratorium demonstrators were members of the Australian Nazi Party wearing swastikas or were members of the Ustashi who fought against the Allies - of which Australia was one and Ho Chi Minh's Vietminh was another - during the Second World War and as they hold the same views as supporters of the Government,  Senator Cotton  and the rest of them are Nazis, Ustashi, or Fascists and are disloyal to Australia because they associate with people who fought against us in the Second World War. 1 do not intend to make that point about them. All I am saying is that the point could be made with equal logic as the point which says that because we are associated with certain people in opposing the Moratorium we are the same as those people. 
However, my purpose in rising was to raise another matter. It is a  matter  which 1 raised this afternoon by way of a question. We are told - and  Senator Wood  repeated it tonight - that we are fighting in Vietnam and we are supporting the invasion of Cambodia by troops of the United States of America because we stand for freedom. If freedom means anything it means the free dissemination of ideas, freedom of assembly and freedom of movement. The question I asked this afternoon was on another episode in the series of refusals of visas to persons to enter Australia. The man to whom I am referring is  Dr Mandel,  an author and scholar from Belgium who is well known throughout the world. He has been refused permission to enter Australia. He was to be in Australia for a period of 5 days, during which he was to deliver some lectures at a Socialist scholars' conference to be held in Sydney.  Dr Mandel,  who is a Belgian Marxist, is the author of a very serious study of Marxist thought entitled Marxist Economic Theory'. In 1967 he wrote 'The Formation of Marxist Economic Thought'. In 1968 he wrote a book entitled 'Europe Versus America'. Both books have been reviewed by serious critics throughout the world. I know that a number of the more hill-billy - I will withdraw that word and substitute the expression 'less erudite' - supporters of the Government Parties- 
1 am sure  Senator Little  does not understand what I am saying. I have used the other expression particularly for  Senator Little's  edification. I notice that  Senator Webster  is interjecting. I understand that he is now going to oppose the sale of wheat to China which is being organised by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen),  who is the Leader of the Australian Country Party.  Senator Webster  told us this afternoon that anybody who does anything to assist China is a traitor to his country, and as the Leader of his Party is selling wheat to China, I have no doubt that  Senator Webster  includes him in that category. However, I do not wish to dwell on  Senator Webster.  I wish to talk about a more serious person at the moment, namely,  Dr Mandel.  As I was saying earlier, in case some of the less erudite members of the Government Parties and the fringe groups around them become alarmed by the use of the word 'Marxist' - and 1 am sure  Senator Greenwood  will have something to say about the use of this dreadful word - I think I should point out to them that 2 countries with which we have rather close diplomatic relations, West Germany and Austria, each have a  President  and each have a Chancellor at present who describe themselves and are proud to be described as Marxists. I think it should be pointed out that Herr Willy Brandt, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany is a Marxist, and  Dr Bruno  Kreisky, the Chancellor of Austria, is also a Marxist. I am sure that  Senator Greenwood  will do his own bit of smearing later on and I do not want- 
I am sorry. I thought that  Senator Greenwood  had been doing a little bit of smearing, but if  Senator Young  assures me that he has not I will accept his assurance. I had thought  Senator Greenwood  was the person who raised the question of molotov cocktails being manufactured in Adelaide. Apparently he did not. I will accept  Senator Young's  correction.  Dr Gustav  Heinemann, the  President  of the Federal Republic of West Germany, is a Marxist and so is the  President  of Austria. 
He is a 
Marxist, and the German Social Democratic Party and the Austrain Socialist Party are Marxist parties, as 1 should think  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack would be only too well aware. They are Marxist Social Democratic parties.  Dr Mandel  has lectured and travelled extensively in Britain, France, India, Italy and Ceylon. In fact, he has travelled and lectured extensively all over the world. He visits Britain regularly. In March and April of this year he lectured at 12 universities in Britain. In 1968 he visited the United States of America where he lectured at 33 universities and colleges. 
In 1969 he applied for a visa to re-enter the United States in order to give another series of lectures, but his visa was refused when objection was taken by the United States Justice Department. 1 know that  Senator Greenwood  will now think that if the United States has refused him a visa we should do the same. 1 think I should go on to say that the Justice Department was criticised by the State Department for the ban it applied. The State Department dissociated itself from the refusal by the Justice Department to issue a visa to him. It was condemned by a number of organisations and newspapers, including the New York 'Times'. I know that probably  Sir Reginald  Sholl would think that it is owned by Jews and therefore it is responsible for this trouble. The Justice Department was condemned by the New York 'Times' as well as by Professor J. K. Galbraith, who, I remind those honourable senators who are aware and tell those honourable senators who were not aware previously, was the United States Ambassador to India under  President  Kennedy. In fact, in order to get around the ban, a debate was arranged between Professor Galbraith and  Dr Mandel.  They were not even on the same side. They were placed against each other. The debate was shown on an international hook-up. 

 Dr Mandel is a scholar. He was coming here to lecture on a scholarly subject to a group of scholars interested in the problems of Marxism, problems of Socialism and problems of the Labour movement. I do not want to try to apologise for him because there is nothing for which to apologise in regard to this man. I know that  Senator Greenwood  finds what 1 am saying funny. I am sure that he has never heard of  Dr Mandel  before, but if he looks in any reputable encyclopaedia he will find his name- 
In which way am 1 covering myself? 
I am not retreating from any statement whatsoever. If  Senator Greenwood  has the opportunity to speak later I would like him to point out where I have retreated. 1 assure him that I have not retreated from any statement. One thing which can be said about  Senator Greenwood  is that he has never retreated from Vietcong forces in Vietnam because he has never been there to see them.  Dr Mandel  was coming to Australia in order to engage in a discussion over a period of 5 days - to deliver lectures for 5 days - but he has been refused permission to enter this country. The only interpretation which can be put on this refusal is that  Dr Mandel  has been refused entry into this country because this Government is afraid of the free dissemination of ideas. The same sort of tactic was adopted by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  when he referred to the Moratorium demonstrators as pack raping bikies or whatever it was. The use of the same sort of tactic was adopted by  Senator Greenwood  with his stories about molotov cocktails being manufactured in Adelaide. The same unsubstantiated stories have been told with a completely careless disregard for whom they may hurt.  Senator Greenwood  is just as careless of the reputations of his fair, fellow Australians as he is of the lives of those Australians whom he votes to send to Vietnam. He will do anything to gain some publicity for himself. He will discredit his opponents in order to get that job which  Senator Anderson  now occupies and which he tried unsuccessfully to obtain today only to find that even the Australian Democratic Labor Party left the Senate in order to avoid the disagreeable duty of having to vote for something for which  Senator Greenwood  was responsible. 
I did not see members of the DLP here in the chamber. I am not 'biting the hand'. 1 am sorry if I have offended the DLP by using the word 'even'. 1 withdraw it. I will just say the DLP. 
All right, this is part of the same pattern with the Moratorium demonstrations and meetings, lt was hoped by the Government that the demonstrations would be disrupted and prevented. lt was hoped that this could be done by slandering the people taking part in the demonstrations, by intimidating them and by holding them out as people willing to subvert this country. But the fact is that hundreds of thousands of Australian people were not intimidated by persons like  Senator Greenwood.  They came out in their hundreds of thousands. 
Hundreds of thousands. 
I repeat, they turned out in their hundreds of thousands, and identified themselves with the Moratorium movement despite all the slanders. This was a case purely of intimidation. But in regard to  Dr Mandel,  there is no need to engage in any intimidation. All that is needed is to refuse to issue a document to a person who travels backwards and forwards to and from the United Kingdom where he lectures. There can be no purpose in refusing a visa to  Dr Mandel  other than to inhibit free discussion in this country, to stop the discussion of ideas which do not agree with those of this Government. This is what is done by people who parade as supporters of democracy. They say that their purpose in sending conscripts to be killed in Vietnam is to save democracy, but their democracy consists of refusing to allow scholarly discussion, serious discussion relating to the Labor movement, to take place in Australia. This is what they understand by democracy: That we should be a society in which a man who is able to travel freely in Europe, whose books are available throughout the world, should be denied the opportunity to enter this country. This is the democracy that these people stand for. This is the kind of democracy which I and the Australian Labor Party repudiate. 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate seen reports that the Lon Nol Government in Cambodia intends to expel some 600,000 Vietnamese residents of Cambodia from that nation where they are now living? Will the Government make a statement as to the correctness or otherwise of these reports, the consequences of this action by the Cambodians against the Vietnamese and the possible consequences that this action by the Lon Nol Government will have on the whole situation in Indo-China? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Is it not a fact that owing to the close proximity of a tannery and glycerine factory and other undoubtedly necessary but malodorous enterprises, Sydney (KingsfordSmith) Airport is possibly the smelliest airport in the world? Is it not also a fact that the international terminal airport at Sydney suffers from the same aromas as does the domestic terminal? ls this state of affairs made even worse by the fact that a large canal through which effluent is transported has been constructed alongside the expressway running to the International Airport? Can the Minister take any action to ensure that persons arriving in Australia at the Sydney Airport will have a less aromatic introduction to this country? 
-I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration. I have no doubt that the Minister will remember that the day before yesterday I asked a question concerning the refusal of an entry visa to the Belgian scholar  Dr Ernest  Mandel. That question now appears as question No. 342 on the notice paper. As I understand that an answer has been given in another place by the Minister for Immigration advising of a Cabinet decision to refuse  Dr Mandel  permission to speak in Australia, can the Minister now inform the Senate, in view of the urgency of this matter, when the Senate may expect to get an answer to my question, which was asked earlier than a similar question was asked in the House of Representatives? 
I wish to direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the claims that have been made by the Government, that one of the primary reasons for our sending troops to Vietnam was to raise the estimation of this country in the eyes of the United States, does the Government consider that the refusal by the United States Administration to admit Australian mutton to America is an indication that the insurance policy which we were allegedly taking with the United States is paying off? Will the Government consider making representations to the United States Administration, suggesting that in view of the sacrifices that we have made in Vietnam in order to obtain American friendship, the least the United States can do is to import our mutton? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. It refers to the refusal by the Government to grant an entry visa to the Belgian scholar,  Dr Ernest  Mandel. In view of the widespread concern that is being expressed throughout Australia, in academic circles and elsewhere, as to the refusal to grant an entry visa to this scholar, will the Government depart from its usual practice and inform the Australian Parliament and the people why  Dr Mandel  has been refused permission to enter this country, since if it does not make such a revelation public it is impossible for us to conclude otherwise than that the refusal of an entry visa is based on the ground that the Government is afraid of the free dissemination of those ideas which  Dr Mandel  has been expressing for many years? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. In view of the explanation he has given as to the provision of the chartered aircraft for  Mr Erwin  and his assurances as to the Government's policy of providing aircraft in similar circumstances, will he advise members of Parliament who may find themselves in a similar predicament regarding their travelling to Canberra to which officer they should apply for the provision of an aircraft similar to that provided to  Mr Erwin? 
I direct a question to you,  Mr President.  On arrival at Parliament House this morning I found myself faced, at the Senate entrance to the House, by a man wearing a uniform which I was unable to identify but which I took to be that of a private security service. He was carrying a rifle which appeared to be at the ready and which was pointed at me. This man was standing on the footpath alongside the door at the Senate entrance. In view of criticisms by responsible police officers regarding the activities of certain private security services and the carrying of arms by officers of those services, do you feel it is proper that private citizens should be allowed, in the precincts of Parliament House at entrances used by members of Parliament and others, to carry loaded firearms? By what authority are they there and what precautions are taken to see that persons entering Parliament. House do not become involved in some fracas which could be dangerous to them? 
I direct a further question to you,  Mr President,  following my previous question. In your answer, part of which 1 take it you intended to be humorous, you said that the armed guard to whom I referred may have taken me to be a suspicious looking person. Do you think it appropriate that an armed guard of a private security service should judge whether members of this Parliament are suspicious looking persons or otherwise? Can you inform the Senate of the instructions that are given to these persons as to the occasions on which they may use the firearms which they carry in their hands? In what circumstances may the firearms be used and what precautions have to be taken if the armed guards decide to use the firearms? As this is the national Parliament, do you not consider that there is something to be said for an officer of either the Commonwealth Police or the Australian Capital Territory Police, whichever is appropriate, and not a member of a private organisation, mounting guard on the national Parliament? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health, refers to the Therapeutic Goods Act 1966, Act No. 29 of 1966, which I understand has not yet been proclaimed. Can the Minister inform the Senate why the Act has not yet been proclaimed and whether it is intended that it shall be proclaimed? 
Parliamentary Draftsman and it is expected that the regulations will be available during the next session of the Parliament. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Has the Government noted the results of the general election in Ceylon wherein the United Front under the leadership of  Mrs Bandaranaike  was returned to office with an overwhelming majority? Has the Government also noted that part of the policy of the United Front is the recognition of the provisional government established by the National Liberation Front of South Vietnam as the Government of South Vietnam? Does the Government not recognise that the results of the Ceylon elections indicate a mass movement amongst the Asian people in opposition to the prolongation of the war in Vietnam and Cambodia by the United States and Australia? Does the Government also not concede that in view of the policy of the Government of Ceylon - an important neighbour of Australia, a democracy, and a fellow member of the Commonwealth of Nations - in continuing with a policy which is clearly opposed to the policy of the Government of Ceylon we are endangering our relations with this fellow Commonwealth country? 
As the Minister for Civil Aviation is probably aware, during last weekend not only was Perth Airport closed because of fog but so also was the alternate airport of Meekatharra. In view of this will the Minister give consideration to establishing a further alternative airport in Western Australia capable of handling jet aircraft? As there is some agitation in the town of Albany for the upgrading of the Albany Airport, will he consider the possibility of establishing either Albany or some other town in the southern part of Western Australia as an alternative airport to both Perth "&lt; Meekatharra? 
I wish to raise a matter which I consider to be of considerable seriousness concerning recruitment by the Public Service Board and the actions of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation in relation to such recruitment. I have in my possession negatives, two of which have been reproduced, of photographs taken of documents which were obtained from the Public Service Board and which were passed to me by the Sydney University student newspaper 'Honi Soit' which in its issue tomorrow will be printing an article concerning the matters to which I am to refer. 
It will be appearing on Thursday, which is now today. On 14th December 1965 Hall Barry Greenland, who was then living at 44 Kensington Road, Summer Hill, New South 
Wales, made  an  application to join the Commonwealth Public Service as an administrative trainee.  Mr Greenland  was then 21 years of age having been born on 25th October 1944. He had had quite  a  good academic record while at secondary school. He had held a New South Wales State bursary. At the university he had held  a  Commonwealth scholarship. When he took his leaving certificate he won prizes for modern history and Shakespeare and at the end of 1965 he completed the degree of Bachelor of Arts with honours in history. 
In his application he set out various other extra-curricular activities in which he had been involved, amongst which were the following: Editor of 'Honi Soit' in 1964; President of the Sydney University Australian Labor Party Club in 1965; education officer of the Sydney University Student Representative Council in 1964; member of the Bankstown Civil Rehabilitation Committee, and member of Student Action for Aborigines. He was interviewed by  a  Mr Harris,  a  member of the staff of the Public Service Board. In his report dated 30th December 1965  Mr Harris  made various comments on  Mr Greenland's  academic qualifications. At the conclusion of his report he said: 
Overall impression: A very likeable person. The Sydney University ALP Club is a rather radical group and  Mr Greenland  is a self-confessed Marxist. However his radicalism is a little conventional and it may be more of a role than a conviction. He has charm, intelligence and enthusiasm and would in my opinion bea refreshing addition to the training group. 
On 7th January 1966, 8 days after  Mr Harris  had signed his report, a minute was prepared by  Mr A.  B. Milne, who I understand is Secretary of the Public Service Board, and was addressed to a  Mr Meyer,  who I understand is an Assistant Commissioner of the Public Service Board. The document is headed 'Commonwealth of Australia, Minute Paper' and bears the notation 'In confidence'. It is addressed to 

 Mr Meyer and is as follows: 

 Mr Hall Greenland ; Applicant for Appointment as Admin. Trainee 

 Mr Hall Greenland was interviewed last week by  Mr Harris  of our Sydney office. I gather he is a BA (Honours) of Sydney University. 
I gather too that on the interview report  Mr Harris  indicated that  Mr Greenland  has expressed some rather definite political views. 
ASIO have come forward in responseto PSI's request for a quick check with advice that 
Greenland is unfavourably known to them.I told the PS1 office Sydney  (Mr Howard)  that we would not be proceeding with Greenland's appointment. 
I understand Greenland's application is now with  Mr Lisle  and I would be pleased if you would see that no action- 
The words 'no action' are underlined -  is takento offer him appointment 
It is signed 'A. B. Milne' and is dated 7th January 1966. There is a notation in the corner over  Mr Milne's  initials 'not to be appointed'. I view this matter very seriously for a number of reasons. The first is that although the interviewing officer,  Mr Harris,  was sympathetic to  Mr Greenland's  position and in fact recommended that he be appointed to the Commonwealth Public Service, he apparently found it necessary in the course of his report to make particular reference to the fact that  Mr Greenland  was at that time, or had been shortly before that time, the  President  of the Sydney University ALP Club. It seems to me to be a matter which should not be open to consideration by any employer, and particularly the Commonwealth of Australia, as to what political party or political organisation a person applying for employment belongs. 

 Mr Harris went on to say that  Mr Greenland  was a self-confessed Marxist. Use of the word 'self-confessed' indicates the attitude which apparently is taken by officers of the Public Service Board. Marxism is a theory of history and of philosophy which has survived many vicissitudes over the more than 100 years of its existence. 1 do not think it needs  Mr Harris  of the Public Service Board or anyone else to apologise for people who subscribe to it or to say that when they say they are Marxists they are self-confessed Marxists because amongst some powerful western European countries at present we find people like Herr Willy Brandt, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany,  Dr Bruno  Kreisky, Chancellor of Austria and  Mr Olaf  Palme, Prime Minister of Sweden, who are also Marxists; not, I would think, self-confessed Marxists but people who are proud to be described as Marxists. 
I presume that the reason the word Marxist' is used here is because there is the common confusion in a number of people that in order to be a Marxist one needs to be a member of the Communist Party or some other organisation. But that is not the case. In any event, even if it were it seems to me that as there is no law which states that the holding of these political philosophies is contrary to the law, it is quite improper that any comment should be made on them. It would be just as improper to describe  Mr Greenland  as a selfconfessed Rotarian or a self-confessed Liberal or a self-confessed Methodist as to refer to his having been a self-confessed Marxist and to discuss his presidency of the Sydney University ALP Club. 
From the attitude which  Mr Harris  has otherwise adopted it does not seem that this is the kind of matter that he would be raising in his own right. It seems that this is a matter that he has raised because he has been under some instructions from his superiors to raise it. What 1 find much more serious than this is the fact that because  Mr Greenland  quite frankly and without making any secret of it raised the fact that he had been  President  of the Sydney University ALP Club and that he subscribed to the Marxist theory, this was then referred by  Mr Milne,  Secretary of the Public Service Board, to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation to find out what the Organisation thought about it.  Mr Milne  in the minute which he directed to  Mr Meyer  said: 
ASIO have come forward in response to  PSI's  request for a quick check. 
It certainly must have been a quick check because the report by  Mr Harris  was dated only 30th December 1965. In the meantime there had been the New Year holiday and on 7th January, a little over a week later with the New Year holiday intervening, not only had  Mr Milne,  Secretary of the Public Service Board, received the report from ASIO which had been requested by the Public Service Inspector, but also he had made up his mind that  Mr Greenland  should not be appointed. What did ASIO say in ils report which resulted from this quick check? It said that Greenland was unfavourably known - unfavourably known to some person who works in the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. 
Who actually comprises the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, what are their qualifications and what is the personality disorder which has led them to take up this occupation which would be shunned by any normal person is a mystery to most of us. We do not know what problems they have which have caused them to follow this career, but we do know that merely because  Mr Greenland  is unfavourably known to these people who belong to :he so-called and rather jocularly called Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, he is deprived of the employment he had chosen for himself as an administrative trainee with the Commonwealth Public Service. 
I believe that the facts speak for themselves. But there is something else I should like lo add. Since the events which occurred early in 1966 when  Mr Greenland  was refused employment by the action of the Secretary of the Public Service Board because he had received a report from ASIO that  Mr Greenland  was unfavourably known to that organisation.  Mr Greenland  has become quite a well known figure in dissenting student movements in Sydney. No doubt he was included with members of the Australian Labor Party and others to whom solemn words of advice were directed by Government supporters and various other persons who said that there should be no unlawful actions during the protests against the war in Vietnam. We were told thai we are living in a democratic society in which people are free to express their dissent, that all people are equal inside I his society in their right and ability to put forward whatever doctrine they choose to advocate. We were told that not only was there no necessity to engage in this country in any unlawful political action, but also that it was quite wrong, because means are open to all citizens of whatever political persuasion to pursue the objectives they consider desirable. This case is evidence thai: thai is not so. 
As far as I understand the position, this is the first occasion on which we have been able to produce documentary evidence thu a man has been refused employment by the Commonwealth for no other reason that is revealed in the available documents than that he was President of the Sydney University Australian Labor Party Club and told the person who was examining him when he applied for employment thai he was a Marxist. This case will become known because this is the sort of matter which is agitating the minds of a great many Australians and particularly yoting Australians. As I have said, this matter will be referred to in the issue of 'Honi Soil', the Sydney University newspaper, to appear later today. Is there any wonder that there is disrespect for the law? Is there any wonder that there is disrespect for an established institution when it is clear that violence is being done to people because of opinions that they hold. To deprive a man of his livelihood because of his political opinions is to do violence to him. Richard Hofstadter, an American historian, said recently: 
Now as always the primary precedent and primary rationale for violence comes from the established order itself. Violence is, so to speak, an official reality. 
What has been done to  Mr Greenland  in this instance is violence. It is the violence of the State which prevents him from carrying out an occupation to which on his academic and other accomplishments he is entitled. He is prevented from carrying out that occupation because of the political opinions that he holds. For as long as this practice continues no one can seriously or honestly claim that Australia is a democratic society or urge the people to follow legitimate channels of dissent, when they know that when the social misfits in ASIO become aware that they hold opinions which are not popular, and that knowledge is passed to their prospective employers, they will be denied the occupation of their choosing. 
I have nothing further to add on this matter. I have photo copies of the documents to which I have referred. The Government or a Minister may wish to deny their veracity. In order that it may not appear that I am wishing to conceal anything, and so that a proper check may be made with the Public Service Board, I seek leave to table the photo copies of the documents which I have in my possession. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. Is it a fact that a considerable amount of audio/visual material which has been provided to State high schools is lying idle owing to the fact that staff are not available to these high schools in order to operate this material? In view of the expense that has been involved in providing such material to the State high schools does the Government intend to take any action in order to rectify this position? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. He may recollect that last week I tabled documents which purported to be photostat copies of documents from the Public Service Board, in particular, a minute from the Secretary of the Public Service Board relating to a report by the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation on an applicant for appointment. Can the Minister inform the Senate whether or nol he accepts the authenticity of the photostat copies which I tabled? 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate seen a statement by the United States Secretary of State that, although the United States Administration would find a victory by the North Vietnamese forces in Cambodia to be regrettable, it would not send any armed forces into Cambodia in order to defeat the North Vietnamese forces'? Does the Government share this view of the United States Administration? If it does, could it at an early opportunity explain to the Parliament why the Government feels that it is worth while sending Australian troops to fight in South Vietnam to prevent a victory by the North Vietnamese forces but it is not desirable to send Australian troops to Cambodia to defeat the North Vietnamese forces? 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, refers to the answer he gave me yesterday to my question as to whether he would confirm or deny the authenticity of documents purporting to be photostat copies of Public Service documents that I tabled in the Senate last week. He may recollect that in his reply he said: I make no comment on the authenticity of this. I question the propriety, in my own mind, of making public a Public Service document'. What is the meaning of the second sentence in the answer? Does it mean that a Public Service document was tabled? If it does not mean that, what does it mean? 
The Opposition supports this Bill, and at this stage I do not intend to speak on it for very long. I wi sh to make only two points. Although the Opposition supports the Bill, I feel that it should be pointed om that, as with so many matters related to education in particular and to government budgeting in matters of this nature in general - in this case a very substantial figure of $30m is provided for a service, namely, the addition to and development of existing teachers training colleges - there appears to be no system whereby such large sums are arrived at. Sofar as I can gather from reading the speech of the Minister in the other place, and that of the Minister representing in the Senatethe Minister for Education and Science, I have not been able to discover whythe sum of $30m was selected. It would seem quite apparent,I should imagine, that in such important matters as education, there should be some appropriate commission which would, on the basis of needs, as has been done in the past with the Grants Commission, assess the requirements of these matters, explain them lo the Parliament, and then appropriate whatever amount of money is available and required after having considered the needs of the educational system - in this case that part of the educational system which deals wilh teacher training. 
The other point I wish to make relates to clause 7 of the Bill which provides as a condition for the making of such grants to the States as are specified in the Schedule to the Bill that it is incumbent upon the States to admit to the teachers colleges private students in such a number as will result in the number of private students at teachers colleges in the State in that year being not less than 10% of the number of students at teachers colleges in the State whose admission to the colleges is attributable to the expenditure of grants under the Act. Further provision is made in clause 7 (b) that, if there are not sufficient applicants to attend these colleges as private students, the percentage may consequently be reduced. I do not think anybody could seriously object to persons who are not going to be bonded to Education Departments being admitted to teachers training colleges and trained to become teachers. I think most people who have given any great attention to the problems of education are convinced that one of the great deficiencies in our educational system at the present time is the bonding of teachers whereby, because a person has trained to become a teacher for the purpose of entering a State Education Department, he is bound to serve- for a certain number of years in that Education Department on the completion of his training unless he is prepared to refund to the Education Department a quite considerable sum of money by way of a bond. 
This is a disability under which people who are trained for no other profession labour. If. somebody is trained with the assistance of Commonwealth or State moneys to become a lawyer, for example, he is not compelled to work in the Crown Law Department, or if he is trained as an architect he is not compelled to work for a State or Federal housing department on the completion of his degree. Although there are cadetships which are available and which I should imagine would have some similarity to the bonding of teachers who are being trained within teachers training colleges, this is not the only means available to people who wish to follow these professions. Apart from a very small number of private teachers colleges, the only way in which one could obtain a teacher's qualifications was to attend a State teachers training college and consequently be bonded to an Education Department. Clause 7 of the Bill provides for the admission to teachers training colleges of certain persons who shall be eligible to teach in private schools and who will not have to enter into this bond. 
As I have already said, I am not opposed, and neither is the Labor Party, to those persons, irrespective of their number, entering teachers training colleges, but I think it is worth pointing out that there does seem to be an anomaly involved. Although admittedly the same sums of money are not available to the unbonded teachers who are training to become teachers in private schools as are available to those bonded students who wish to enter Slats Education Departments, it does seem to he something of an anomaly that within a teachers training college there are certain students who are bonded to teach within an Education Department and other students who are not bonded. I trust that this is the commencement of steps which the Commonwealth, which does control the moneys available for Education Departments, will be taking to see that at some time in the not too distant future all of those persons who enter teachers training colleges will be able to do so without having a bond inflicted upon them so that after they have obtained their qualifications they will be free to practise their profession in whichever field they wish or not to practise it if they decide to. do something else. As it stands, there are only certain trainee teachers who do have this right allocated to them, and these are the teachers who are to teach at schools other than State schools. However, I suggest that it is implied, and it has led one to the conclusion that there are being placed on those people who wish to enter State education services disabilities which are not placed on those who wish to enter the teaching profession as teachers in private schools of one form or another. 
Although I may well be wrong on this, I have not heard any satisfactory explanation for the fixing of the figure of not less than 10% as the proportion of non-bonded trainee teachers to the number of bonded trainee teachers, without any maximum being fixed. This seems to be a rather extraordinary approach. Possibly the Minister will be able to say something about this when he speaks subsequently. Unless I have misread the Bil) - and I have tried to read it as carefully as I can - it seems to me that although a minimum figure of 10% is fixed, which may be varied if there is not a sufficient number of applicants to make up the 10%, there is no maximum whatsoever. This, too, would seem to be one form of anomaly. 
However, this Bill makes provision for quite a substantial sum of money to the States so that they can engage in teacher training, lt is well recognised that the facilities available for teacher training throughout the Commonwealth are far short of what they ought  10  be, and in some States they ure worse than in others. As I have already said. 1 am unable to judge why the particular figures set out in the Schedule were fixed - why, for example, 59m is allocated to the State of New South Wales whereas S9.5m is allocated to Victoria, or why 53.6m is allocated to South Australia but only $3m is allocated to Queensland and Western Australia. What study was made in order to determine these figures? The reasoning behind the selection of those figures is noi known, and 1 would suggest that at some time in the future provision ought to be made for a commission of inquiry to inquire into the whole matter of education and arrive al these figures according to standard criteria and some sort of fixed principle rather than what seems lo have been done here. 1 am noi suggesting there is noi good reason for it but am merely presenting the Senate and the House of Representatives with details of a number of sums of money, which may or may not be adequate. However, this money is being made available, and it is certainly not the intention of the Opposition to prevent its being made available. The Opposition intends to support the Bill. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport seen reports of a statement by  Sir Andrew  Crichton,  Chairman  of Overseas Containers Ltd. that in the opinion of his company it will bc necessary to raise freight rates on container shipping handling United Kingdom-Australia-New Zealand trade and that as a result  of  this statement producer organisations in New Zealand are at present involved in negotiations with shipping companies outside the Conference and with non-British shipping companies? As the problems which will affect the New Zealand producers are in principle the same as those which will affect the Australian producers if the freight rales are increased, is the Government making any parallel investigations to those which are at present being undertaken by the New Zealand producer authorities? 
 1 direct a question to the Minister for Air which is pursuant to the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition concerning the case of Aircraftsman Glenn Allan Piper. This matter was raised with the Minister by the honourable member for Banks in another place. In view of the fact that Aircraftsman Piper is at present in the Ingleburn Military Hospital and that he is only 18i years of age and has already suffered the anguish of the experiences he has had, does not the Minister consider that on the grounds of humanity the most sensible course for the Royal Australian Air Force to take would be to give a medical discharge to Aircraftsman Piper from the Air Force? 
1 address a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate as  Minister  representing the Treasurer. My question relates to the statement made last Friday by  Sir Roland  Wilson that the Commonwealth Trading Bank has formed a consortium with 4 European banks - 1 German, 1 French, I Italian and 1 Dutch - to be known as the Australian Finance Corporation Ltd, with the purpose of raising money for investment in Australian industries, in particular, I understand, mining. Did the Government approve of this action by the Commonwealth Trading Bank? Did it know of this action by the Commonwealth Trading Bank? Will the Leader of the Government some time before the completion of this sessional period make a statement to the Senate as to the proposed activities crf the Australian Finance Corporation Ltd and in particular point out in which way the activities of the Australian Finance Corporation Ltd will cut across and interfere with the activities of the Australian Industry Development Corporation? 
Yes, I will seek information and, when I obtain that information, make a statement in relation lo the proposed Australian Finance Corporation Ltd to which the honourable senator has referred. I could not imagine any circumstances iti which it could be calculated or designed to cut across the recent legislation which was introduced in this place and passed by us. 
 Although the hour is late and we are coming close to the end of this sessional period, there is a question that I believe is of some importance and should be raised. It concerns matters related to libraries that are provided to a very large extent as a result of the provisions of Commonwealth funds through the Department of Education and Science. Several days ago I raised the question of certain high school libraries being in the position that material had been provided as a result of the provision of Commonwealth funds but, owing to the lack of trained people, this very valuable equipment, particularly audiovisual equipment, is not being used and is going completely to waste in some of these high schools. 
The matter to which I wish to refer now does not relate to that point; it relates to the administration of a high school library in the State of New South Wales - the library of the Ibrox Park High School in Leichhardt. I appreciate that the control the Commonwealth Department of Education and Science has over the day to day administration of schools that receive grants from the Commonwealth is very limited insofar as it exists at all. But my submission is that if moneys are made available by the Commonwealth to the States for a particular purpose the Commonwealth ought to exercise supervision or at least give some advice to the States on the way in which the moneys are being spent and what is happening in libraries that have been constituted very largely as the result of the provision of Commonwealth funds. 
There have been some problems in the lbrox Park High School just recently. I do not wish to refer to them at any length. They began shortly before the holding of the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign in Australia on 8th May when the Vice-captain of the school was suspended for wearing a Moratorium badge. Since then there has been a development, which I believe is a very serious one, regarding the free dissemination of information to students. I have a memorandum from the Librarian at the Ibrox Park High School. I would like to read out part of it. She states in her memorandum: 
During the fortnight before the Moratorium when many opinions about the matter were being expressed among students and staff at Ibrox Park High School. I, as Teacher/Librarian at the school decided that it was necessary for people taking part in these arguments to be well informed. Thus, on Friday May 1st, I telephoned a book suppliers and asked them to send me material that they had in stock on South East Asia and other topical problem areas in the world. I said we required historical, geographical and political approaches, and that the books should reflect as as many viewpoints as possible. 
On Monday, May 4th, a representative of the Bookshop called with a box of books which they felt met with our requirements. I examined these books and decided to keep them. Later I made a display of this material on a front table in the library and told the senior students that if they wished to borrow any of them for the May holiday, they could do so, but that I would have to make a special lending record of this, as 1 had h.id no lime to accession the books. 
On Tuesday, May 19th, after the May holiday I arranged these books in a group on their own on top of the bookcase containing the set of Encyclopaedia Britannica, so that they were accessible and separate for senior students, and this is where the)' were when 1 left school at 3.40 p.m. that day. 
She goes on to say that during Wednesday, 20th May, when she wished to point out to some students that these books were available, she found that they had disappeared. She reported the loss to the  Deputy  Principal and ultimately to the Principal of the Ibrox Park High School, a  Mr Smith. 

 Mr Smith said that the books had been moved, and he felt that they should be moved because this sort of matter which was being discussed was not the sort of matter which ought to be discussed in the school. 
Principal of the school. 
The teacherlibrarian of the school. Subsequently some books have been retained, but nearly all the books have been returned to the booksellers. The books that have been retained are books which do not appear to express any obvious point of view. They are: 'Indonesia' by G. A. Chatfield; 'Malaya and Its History' by Richard Winselt; 'Thailand, Burma, Laos and Cambodia' by John F. Cady; and 4 o:her books which seem to be geographical surveys of the areas in question. 
A number of more controversial books have been returned to the booksellers. Those books include: The Philippines: Land and People" by Paul F. Cressey; China Today' by H. R. Arthur; Asia in the Modern World' edited by Helen G. Mathew; 'The Far East. A Concise History' by F. C. Jones; 'Vietnam: History Documents and Opinions on a  Major World  Crisis' edited by Marvin E. Gettleman and published by Penguin Books, a book which is extremely critical of the American and Australian position in the Vietnam war; "A Concise History of East Asia', by C. P. Fitzgerald, a book also critical of this position; and From Yalta to Vietnam', by David Horowitz, again a book critical in this respect. All these books have been returned to the booksellers and arc not available to senior students at this high school. A further book in this category is Mao Tse Tung' by H. R. Arthur, which is published by 'Resource Materials for Asian Studies', in Auckland. However with an excess of zeal one of the books which has been returned is 'Vietnam. An Australian Analysis', by Alan Watt, a former Secretary of the Prime Minister's Department. 
That also was returned and is not available to students at the school. So also was Hansard of the Federal Parliament. It was taken out of the library, apparently on the ground that controversial matters were appearing in Hansard. Hansard has subsequently been returned to the library. 
The fact is that a very large number books concerning a matter of topical interest have been removed from this library. I know that  Senator Wright  as a champion of free speech would be concerned about matters of this type because in the past he has told us how concerned he is by the lack of proper discussion in Communist countries. He would have a very lively interest to see that such things as this do not take place in our country. I am sure that he would not find it amusing if he heard about something like this happening in the Soviet Union, for example. 
The fact is that here are serious students in their final year at high school, aged 17 or 18, wishing to inform themselves on a subject which is of keen topical interest and a subject which might be of very great interest to some of them in the future if this Government is still in office and Australia is still involved in the war in Vietnam, lt might be of interest to them to learn about the country in which they will be conscripted to fight and in which they could be killed. It might be helpful if they were to know something about that country before they were sent there. The books which have been prohibited are not only books that offer a critical analysis of Australia's position in Asia and of Australia's position inside Vietnam in particular but also books  which put forward a view which supports that of the Commonwealth Government and the Government of the United States of America in respect of Asia. 
I regard it as outrageous that, if we have an educational system which is meant to equip students to take their part in the world around them and which is meant to equip them to take an interest in serious matters - matters of great concern which are facing them - students are prevented by action of the principal of this school from being able to inform themselves on a subject which, of all matters of foreign affairs, is the one which is of most direct interest to Australians and particularly to Australians of this age - that is, the war in Vietnam. 
I think it is an unconscionable action which has been taken by the principal of this school. T appreciate the limited influence which the Commonwealth Department of Education and Science can have on these matters. But I do submit that if the Commonwealth is to provide money for the provision of libraries in high schools in the various States a responsibility rests with the Commonwealth to see that those libraries are being put to proper purpose and that they are being used in order to educate and equip people to take part in the great controversies and the great issues which are confronting the Australian people. Action such as that which has been taken at this high school is the stifling of free thought; it is the stifling of free inquiry. There is absolutely no excuse whatsoever for saying that 17 and 18-year-olds at high school, people who are preparing for matriculation, should be prevented from informing themselves upon such subjects as Australia's role in South-East Asia and Australia's role in Vietnam. I trust that the Minister will cause some action to be taken on this matter. 
I do not know who was behind the suppression which took place inside this school, but certainly it does not appear that the New South Wales Minister for Education has taken any action of his own volition in order to see that these books are made available at the request of the librarian, who incidentally also in future has to obtain the permission of the subject teacher before she can acquire any new books, which is quite contrary to the normal provisions relating to a school librarian, and she has also been compelled to provide to the principal of the school invoices of all those books which she has purchased over the past year. I do not know what the State Minister for Education has done. I would assume that he has done nothing about the matter as it has received quite a deal of publicity in the State of New South Wales, and for that reason I believe that the Commonwealth Minister should exercise some influence, not so that any particular point of view shall be put forward on this question but at least so that there can be open inquiry and open discussion and the free provision of all the best information available to those students who are interested. 
I wish to speak briefly on this clause which is a very important one because it removes from the existing Act section 109a, which has been an important part of the Act. 
 As  Senator Cavanagh  reminds me, section 109a has put a lot of trade unionists in gaol, has fined a lot of trade unionists and has imposed great financial burdens on the Australian trade union movement. At 2.20 a.m. this provision to remove the section from the existing Conciliation and Arbitration Act is before us. We have been told by the Government for a very long time that this section is necessary in order to have responsible relations between management and labour. Having spoken for so long about responsibility, tonight we see what the Government means by responsibility. The Government consistently has complained about the use of the strike weapon - a weapon which is freely available to trade unionists in the United States of America. The Government imitates the United States of America so far as the Vietnam war is concerned but certainly not so far as its labour policy or its standards of civil liberties are concerned.  Senator Sim  is trying to say something about North Vietnam. I am not talking about North Vietnam as it is not relevant to section 109a of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. If  Senator Sim  wishes to have a debate on North Vietnam on another occasion I will be very happy to accommodate him. I have had a debate with him on television and I do not think he won. I return to the section. 
I will confine myself to that clause. I think it was by interjection that North Vietnam was raised when I was referring to the industrial law of the United States, which bears upon section 109a of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. That section is completely contrary to the trade union law of the United States of America. This type of provision has been opposed even by the most conservative American trade unions, including the International Association of Machinists, a conservative craft union and a union which by its policy - seeing that the question of North Vietnam has been raised- 
 I would like to speak to the point of order. I do not think that  Senator Greenwood  could have understood me very well because the point I was making was that in the United States, there not being compulsory arbitration, there is no  president  or anybody comparable to the  president  to whom industrial disputes can be referred. The fact that in Australia there is a  president  and that there is a court of which there is a  president  is part of the machinery of compulsory arbitration. In the United States there is no compulsory arbitration machinery and for that reason there is no counterpart of the  president. 
 I thank you,  Mr Temporary Chairman,  for your advice, which I always appreciate very greatly. My reference to section 109a, however, applies to the whole system of compulsory arbitration. This part of the whole principle of compulsory arbitration, which this Government has supported, is now being removed from the Act. It is being removed by clause 14 of the Bill that we are hearing debated tonight. So far in Committee we have not heard from the Government or the Minister one argument as to why section 109a of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act should be repealed. 
Order! This is within the province of the Chair. I call  Senator Wheeldon. 
 The proposition before the Chair is that section 109a of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act be repealed. If that is the proposition- 
 I appreciate the legal advice that is being given to me by the honourable senator from Victoria. But let me continue with the point I am making. Here we have something that is integral to the Government's notion of compulsory arbitration being removed from the Act and no argument being submitted as to why that should be done. It is being done in a frivolous and flippant way. 
The name of the Act with which we are dealing is the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. One of the purposes of naming the Act in that way when it was originally passed was that there should be not only arbitration but also conciliation between employers and employees. In fact, as  Senator Milliner  reminds me, the most important part of the Act should be the conciliation and not the arbitration. Arbitration should be a stage that is reached only if there is failure of conciliation. If there is to be conciliation, if there is to be industrial peace and if we are to accept the Government's proposition that it wants to have industrial peace - I do not believe that it wants industrial peace at all; I bel'ieve that it wants to have penal powers to impose on the unions whether that will produce peace or not - then surely one of the essential requirements of industrial peace is conciliation. 
I submit that tonight the trade unionists of Australia are being shown an example of what the Government means by conciliation. Here is a Bill and a clause within that Bill which is of the utmost importance to the whole trade union movement and to every employee in Australia, as are all the other clauses that have been presented to and debated by the Committee tonight; yet they are being stampeded through and attempts are being made to gag them through this chamber. After that has been done this Government will say to the workers and trade unionists of Australia: Here is an Act that has been passed in order to produce conciliation and arbitration, and you must abide by it; otherwise you will be dealt with'. I believe that the trade unionists of Australia are entitled to say: if this is the way in which you have passed this Act, we will treat your Act with exactly the same respect as you have shown for it'. This Government has shown absolutely no respect for the conciliation and arbitration laws, for the trade union movement or for its own Bill. I would think that the people of Australia - the trade unionists of Australia - would show exactly the same respect for the Bill as the Government and its satellites have shown for it tonight. 
 Mr Deputy President,  I wish to oppose the resolution that the report now be adopted. I do this because I believe that what the Government has shown us tonight is one of the most disgraceful exhibitions that any government could provide in a Parliament. We have seen this Government, after narrowly surviving the election which was held last year, call Parliament together to sit for1 day only last year after which we were passed into the hands of Divine Providence. We then were away, and indeed we needed to be. We had an extraordinarily long adjournment of several months. We returned, and no business was before this Senate for week after week after week. 
Towards the end of the present sessional period, business was produced by the Government in great haste. Agreements were entered into between the Opposition and the Government as to how the business of this chamber could be conducted. It is well known that agreements were entered into with regard to the times of meeting, with regardto the extended sitting hours and with regard to the extended days of sitting. Those agreements have been broken. They were broken tonight in order to stampede through this House a Bill that is of the greatest importance to every wage earner in Australia, of the greatest- 
If  Senator Gair  has something to say on the Bill, he can say it. 
They reckon I am having another trip! Goodness gracious me!I think the same witticism has been passed about 15 times this evening by  Senator Gair.  On each occasion, the same inane grin has been on his face. I would not want to speculate on what he has been doing to cause him to repeat the same inane interjection a number of times- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order!  Senator Gair,  you must resume your seat. You are presently out of your place in the Senate. 
We have seen a performance again tonight by the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  who has shown throughout his whole career a violent hatred of the trade union movement and of members of trade unions. He is a man who has never missed an opportunity to berate the tradeunion movement and its elected officers; a man who, on the discussion of the Stevedoring Industry Bill in 1965, said that he wanted to destroy 'this wretched Federation', referring to the Waterside 
Workers Federation. He now sits here as a Minister- 
If any  Senator - 
persistently and wilfully disregards the authority of the Chair: the  President  may reportto the Senate that such  Senator has  committed an offence. 
I submit that  Senator Gair  has committed an offence under the Standing Orders. I suggest that it is now in your hands to deal with  Senator Gair. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order! The point of order is not upheld.  Senator Gair,  you must cease interjecting from the position which you now occupy. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! I call  Senator Wheeldon. 
The Minister has shown a hatred for the trade union movement which he has evidenced once again tonight in dealing with a Bill which is of the greatest importance to the trade union movement. It is a Bill which is jocularly described as a 'Conciliation and Arbitration Bill'. The Minister has shown tonight just what he means by conciliation by moving on 1 clause, when he knew very well that no-one even intended to oppose it, the gag before anybody even had an opportunity to stand. The sort of conciliation which he has shown tonight is the sort of conciliation that he wants to see shown towards the trade unions in their dealings with the employers. He has acted tonight as if he were still in his old occupation of prosecuting drunks in the Hobart police court. That is an occupation which he ought to be following, not that of a man responsible, even if only in a subordinate capacity, in a small job but nevertheless one which is too big for him, handling in the upper House of this Parliament Bills which affect the destiny of about 2 million Australian workers. He has treated this whole matter with contempt. He has treated this Parliament with contempt. He has not been interested in learning what the ACTU had to say about this matter. He knows very well that there are honourable senators sitting on this side of the House, such  as  Senator Bishop, Senator Cavanagh, Senator Milliner  and  Senator Brown  -I do not want to enumerate all of them but there are honourable senators- 
Yes. I will leave the honourable senator out. But there are honourable senators on this side of the House who have a close association with the ACTU - which is an important party to proceedings relating to the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill - and who have a contribution to make to this debate as have people who are officials of trade unions and people who have had a long association with and speak for the ACTU. So contemptuous has  Senator Wright  been of the ACTU and the people who speak on behalf of that body that he moved the gag before he even knew whether anybody was going to speak. I am sure that when this Bill has been passed  Senator Wright  will be here saying that proceedings for contempt of court should be taken against someone who has not complied with some provision that he gagged through tonight without giving the opportunity to representatives of the labour movement to be heard inside this Senate. He is an irresponsible man. He is unsuited for his job. I believe that he has reflected great discredit upon this Government and upon this Parliament. It is a shameful performance of the petty little gauleiter, and I believe that what he has done tonight- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! I suggest to the honourable senator that he moderate his language. 
-I accept your advice  Mr Deputy President,  but this is a serious matter and I ask you to excuse me if I feel somewhat incensed because the legislation we are dealing with tonight has caused trade unionists to be sent to gaol. It has virtually destroyed financially a large number of organisations of the working people whom  Senator Wright  despises so much from his old days of prosecuting in the police court.I believe that the workers of Australia will show the same contempt for this Bill as  Senator Wright  has shown for this Senate tonight and for the workers representatives. 
This struggle is not over merely because the Bill has been jammed through this 
Senate tonight without allowing a proper discussion, in breach of agreements which the Opposition entered into with the Government and which were broken in defiance of any cannon of common decency. The ACTU, the Australian trade unionists, the Australian working class, the Australian Labor Party and the Australian people generally know precisely what they can expect from this Government and its minor advocates. They know that this is the sort of treatment that they can expect when they come before courts operating under the provisions of an Act which has been imposed upon them in such a cruel, petulent, petty and contemptible way. 
If this Bill is passed I believe that we have to show our total opposition and our total repudiation of the way in which this Government has acted tonight so that we can go back to those in the trade union movement and tell them what happened, show them the Hansard report, show them the record of the gags moved by  Senator Wright,  and show them the interjections of  Senator Sim.  Then they can have some idea of the intelligence of the people who are sitting on the other side of this chamber. We can show them who voted for these gags. I believe that if we were still sitting here at 5 o'clock tomorrow morning or 5 o'clock next week it would be well worth the task if it meant that another such shocking burden as this would not be imposed upon the working people of Australia as has been imposed by this Bill and imposed in a way so contemptuous of the Australian Parliament, Australian democracy and the people of Australia. 
Motion (by  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin) put: 
That the question be now put. 
 My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior. Has the Minister seen in this morning's 'Canberra Times' a report that during a meeting held outside Parliament House yesterday a member of the Australian Capital Territory Police Force took photographs of the pensioners and trade unionists taking part in the meeting? Is the report correct? 
I direct a question to you,  Mr President.  Are you aware that a meeting had been arranged to be held at 1.15 this afternoon in the House of Representatives Committee Room No. 2 between representatives of the New South Wales Teachers Federation the New South Wales Federation of Parents and Citizens Associations, the New South Wales Federation of Pre-school Clubs and members of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party Education Committee? Are you also aware that when the delegates arrived at the entrance to King's Hall they were refused admission despite their explanation to the attendant of the reason for their presence in Parliament House, and that subsequently the General Secretary of the New South Wales Teachers Federation, at the instance of one of the attendants, completed a form explaining the reason for the presence of these citizens at Parliament House? Is it true that after the form was completed and handed to the attendant, despite the fact that the people seeking admission were waiting downstairs nothing happened for a further half hour until the General Secretary of the Teachers Federation saw a member of the House of Representatives who was known to him, who made some inquiries and was able to obtain the admission of these citizens to Parliament House? Will you ascertain why this happened,  Mr President,  and will you give an assurance to the Senate that representatives of all responsible public bodies, such as these organisations, which have legitimate business that they wish to discuss with elected members of the Federal Parliament, are not hindered in future from going about their lawful business inside Parliament House? 
We have before the Senate a ministerial statement on Vietnam with which we are to debate ministerial statements on Cambodia and foreign affairs. I intend to restrict what I shall say during the course of this debate largely to the Ministerial statement made on Vietnam on 22nd April in which the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  read to the Senate the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton).  In the Prime Minister's statement, which set out to explain the reasons why one battalion of Australian troops was being withdrawn from Vietnam, the Minister repeated the arguments which the Government has used to justify the sending of Australian troops to Vietnam. Various points were made in support of the Government's argument. As this matter has not been before the Senate since last April I shall briefly repeat what the Minister said at that time. He said, first of all: 
Since 1965, Australian ground formations have been engaged with our allies in resisting armed attack on the Government of South Vietnam. 
The argument was then submitted by the Minister that the action which had been taken in Vietnam had been taken in order to resist aggression and a parallel was sought by the Minister with the aggression of Fascists and Nazis before and during the Second World War. He said in referring to the time of the Second World War: 
We saw Fascists and Nazi aggression ranging unchecked and subjecting one small country after another to conquest until it had to be stopped - at the cost of a world war - which need not have happened had the aggression been stopped at the beginning. I thought that these lessons, which, let us never forget are of more import to small nations than to large, had been learned. 
He then went on to draw a parallel with what was alleged to be a similar such act of aggression, namely, the incident which occurred in Korea in 1951 and thereafter. The Minister said: 
Because the prevention of aggression, then, was the basic concept of the United Nations, we saw United Nations forces moving to defeat that aggression. 
This was a reference to Korea. He continued: 
Australians were there. And the aggression was defeated. And Australian national security was best promoted because it was defeated. 
The point was then made that the actions which we are taking in Vietnam are the sort of actions which will encourage small nations to preserve their freedom. The Minister continued: 
The one consistent thread of principle - that small nations are best rendered secure if other small nations are not allowed to be overrun - has distinguished our policy through the post war years. 
The Prime Minister, and the Minister who repeated his statement in this chamber, then went on to tell us that the policy was proving very successful. The Minister said, in effect: 'One of the reasons why our policy in Vietnam is proving so successful is that what is described as "Vietnamisation" is taking place in South Vietnam'. He said: 
The development that gives encouragement is the progress in what has been called 'Vietnamisation' - the movement towards South Vietnamese self-reliance. 
Having elaborated on some of those themes, he concluded by saying: 
And I believe that history will show Australia was right not to stand idly by and refuse to lift a finger to help a small country attacked from without. 
Although a number of things have happened since last April, I would imagine that the arguments put forward in the Prime Minister's statement would still reflect the stated views of the Government as regards its policy towards Australian intervention in Vietnam. I would like to comment on some of the points the Prime Minister made. 
First of all,  we  have been told that  resistance  to aggression is the reason for our intervention in Vietnam; that the reason for our sending forces to Vietnam is solely to prevent aggression that is being undertaken against South Vietnam by North  Vietnam  and sometimes, it is alleged, by other countries as well. I suggest that if  the  Government's policy is one of resisting aggression on every occasion on which it takes place, which is what is alleged,  then  clearly the Government will have to  produce  much better arguments than those produced when troops have been sent into Vietnam. Many incidents of aggression by one country against another have taken place since the Second World War. Incidents of aggression are still taking place in which Australia is playing no role whatsoever. Tn fact, if one is to say that Australian troops are to be sent into any country in which there is aggression, it would seem to me to be very difficult, if not impossible, from the Government's point of view to justify the fact that troops have not been sent into Cambodia. 1 am not one of those who argue that an act of aggression has been committed in Cambodia. But, as I understand the Government's position, the Government does make this claim. If one refers to the ministerial statement on Cambodia, which is also before the chamber at the present time, one sees that the Government is of the view that there has been aggression in Cambodia; but in fact the Government has taken no action to give military assistance to that country. Yet, if one were to accept the arguments that have been put forward by the Government and its apologists concerning the situation in Indo-China, I do not think one could escape from the conclusion that there is a far stronger argument for Australian intervention in Cambodia than there is for Australian intervention in South Vietnam. 1 do not accept either argument; but if there is an argument for intervention in South Vietnam there is clearly a much stronger argument for intervention in Cambodia because in the Geneva Agreements it was clearly stated that North Vietnam and South Vietnam were one political entity, to be divided only temporarily; whereas, in similar agreements relating to a peaceful settlement in Indo-China after the evacuation of the French, Cambodia was constituted as a separate political entity. If the Government is correct in arguing that there has been an invasion of Cambodia, then clearly there is a much more striking case of aggression in the case of Cambodia than there is in the case of South Vietnam. Yet there are Australian troops in South Vietnam and there are no Australian troops in Cambodia. My view is that there should not be Australian troops in either country. But if anything exposes the inconsistency and lack of principle that the Government has shown on this whole question, it is the quite different approaches taken to South Vietnam and to Cambodia. 
Other acts of aggression have taken place in many other parts of the world during this period. There was the action of the Soviet Union in Czechoslovakia, which was commemorated by  Senator Wright,  who is now sitting on the front bench, in a statement in support of the then Minister for External Affairs, who welcomed the presence of the Soviet Union in the Indian Ocean. I do not want to canvass any issues as to whether the Soviet Union ought or ought not to have forces in the Indian Ocean; nor do I want to canvass again what happened in Czechoslovakia. But here we have a Government that has said that aggression by the Soviet Union took place in Czechoslovakia. Far from the Government taking any action, this aggression that the Government claims took place in Czechoslovakia - I would not dispute that - was followed shortly afterwards by a statement from the then Minister for External Affairs, supported by the present Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  welcoming the presence of Soviet forces in the Indian Ocean. 
It is not a deliberate misrepresentation. If I may refer  Senator Wright  to the Hansard report of the debates that took place in 1969, he will find there ample evidence of what he said on that occasion. He is well aware that had it not been for the action of the Democratic Labor Party the Government would not have changed its policy on this matter so quickly. That again shows the lack of principle that the Government has shown on this question. In fact, there is such a lack of principle that there is no principle at all. The only principle that the Government has shown has been one of being completely subservient to what is the day to day foreign policy of the United States of America. 
The Prime Minister referred to aggression by Fascists and Nazis as if there was some parallel between the North Vietnamese actions in South Vietnam and the actions of the Nazi and Fascist states. The actions of the Nazi and Fascist states were universally condemned. The actions of North Vietnam in the conflict in IndoChina have not been condemned by the bulk of the people throughout the world. The actions in Indo-China that have been condemned have been those of the United States of America and those of Australia - not those of North Vietnam. 
The Prime Minister went on to refer to the action that was taken by Australia, in accordance with a United Nations decision, to send troops into Korea at the time of the conflict between North Korea and South Korea. In some way which can only be described as specious, a parallel is drawn between the conflict in South Vietnam and the conflict in Korea. I do not doubt that there are some parallels between them. But the weakness of the Government's position on this question becomes apparent when one looks at the words used by the Prime Minister. In referring to the Korean conflict, he said: 
Because the prevention of aggression, then, was the basic concept of the United Nations, we saw 
United Nations forces moving to defeat that aggression. Australians were here. 
If the Prime Minister says that the basic concept of the United Nations is to deter aggression and if he commends the action the United Nations took in Korea, then clearly it should follow from his argument that United Nations action should also be taken in South Vietnam. But in fact the reverse has been the case. The more one cites the actions of the United Nations, the more one sees the policy of this Government repudiated. The Secretary-General of the United Nations and a majority of member countries of that body have been diametrically opposed to the policies of the United States of America and the policies of Australia in South Vietnam. To refer to what happened in the Korean War as if it justifies in some way what has happened in South Vietnam not only does not assist the Government argument: it repudiates the Government's argument. 
The Minister went on to say that the actions which have been taken in South Vietnam will preserve the independence of small nations. That is the Government's own statement. One wonders whether members of the Government ever read their own statements. Almost simultaneously with saying that because troops were sent info South Vietnam by the United Stales and its satellites aggression against other small nations would stop, the Minister said that since then something terrible has happened - there has been aggression against the small nation of Cambodia. If both the Government's arguments are valid - that intervention in South Vietnam was to guarantee small nations independence and to prevent aggression being undertaken against small nations, and that there has been aggression against Cambodia - it seems to me that something is completely contradictory in what the Government is saying. The Government says that troops have been sent into South Vietnam and this will stop aggression against the small nations. Then it says: 'Here is Cambodia, which is a small nation. Since we sent troops into South Vietnam there has been aggression against Cambodia.' So whatever substance the Government may have hoped would be in its policy, it has been completely repudiated by its own recital, by its own history of the subsequent course of events. Then comes in the statement probably the most remarkable claim of all. The Minister said: 
The development that gives encouragement is the progress in what has been called 'Vietnamisation' 
Has anyone ever heard of a more absurd war than one in which we are told that the people of South Vietnam are fighting to preserve their freedom, yet the allies of that country have to engage in all sorts of manoeuvres in order to Vietnamise the Vietnam war? They certainly succeeded in Vietnamising Cambodia. It is doubtful to what extent they have succeeded in Vietnamising South Vietnam. What an admission of total failure it is. The argument is put to us that South Vietnam was invaded by diabolical hordes from the north - Russians, Chinese and all sorts of esoteric groups. 
 Apparently  Senator Gair  thinks that the Russians arc in South Vietnam. According to what  Senator Gair  has just told us they have all invaded South Vietnam.  Senator Gair  believes that there arc Russian troops in South Vietnam. I have no doubt that some people hold that view, but I do not think it is generally accepted. We are told (hat the heroic little country of South Vietnam has been invaded by hostile hordes and the South Vietnamese are putting up courageous resistance. Australia has rallied to the call to assist the South Vietnamese people. But after we have been in South Vietnam for 5 years, the best that the Government can tell us about the resistance of South Vietnam to the alleged aggression is that we are making some progress in Vietnamising the Vietnam army. 
Has anybody ever heard a more absurd statement? Was it ever necessary to Britishise the British Army in World War II? Was it necessary to Russianise the Russian 
Army in World War II? Has anyone ever said that it is necessary to Vietnamise the North Vietnamese army? It has not been necessary to do that because everybody knows that the people of North Vietnam are supporting their government. Everybody knows that the people of South Vietnam are not supporting what is alleged to be the government of South Vietnam. I wish now to quote to honourable senators in reference to South Vietnam an article published in- 
lt is in the Washington Post,' a journal of which  Senator Gair  has no doubt never heard. 
Presumably  Senator Gair  thinks that the 'Washington Post' is a Communist paper. I would not be at all surprised if that is the way that  Senator Gair  thinks. In the 13th August edition of the 'Washington Post' is an article on an interview with  Mr Tran  Ngoc Lieng, one of the leaders of the legal Opposition inside South Vietnam. 
No, it is not illegal. It is legal. The article states: 
When Lieng talks about the war, the Americans and  President  Thieu, he uses the cautious code language that dovish politicians have adopted in Saigon because of the dangers of arrest or other forms of recrimination by the government. 
This is an article in one of the best informed and most authoritative newspapers in the capital of the United States. This is its report of the democracy that we are preserving in South Vietnam. The article goes on: 
Government of reconciliation' seems 'to be such a code word. Although Lieng stoutly  insists  that he apposes  a  coalition government (politicians are in gaol for just that transgression), it is clear that he believes the path to eventual settlement is through a government in which power  is  shared by both sides to the conflict. More than an hour of conversation brings this out clearly. 'The United States should announce  a  timetable for withdrawal of all its troops', says Lieng along with- 
Here are  a  couple more Communists for  Senator Gair  - former United States Defence Secretary Clark M. Clifford and  a  large segment of war-weary American public opinion. 'It is a serious mistake for the United States to think it can solve an ideological conflict with military force1, he says along with  Senator J.  William Fulbright and Lawrence F. O'Brien. Leing's political organisation, the Progressive Nationalist Force, consists of only  a  dozen or more Saigon intellectuals - professors, lawyers, a journalist and 5 members of the National Assembly. He wishes to charter it as  a  national party, but he must get 5,000 members in 10 provinces and the government's blessings. 
The article then describes some of the difficulties that have been experienced by any opposition party in organising in South Vietnam, however moderate its views may be. The article continues: 
The United States, Lieng says, propelled South Vietnam into its present situation and now must accept responsibility for doing whatever is necessary to gel it out. This could well include dealing with the Vietcong. His interviewer bore down harder. Realistically. Lieng was asked if Thieu is re-elected and American troops stay in Vietnam for 3 years or more, as seemed likely, what did he foresee as the impact? 'Many South Vietnamese would join the Vietcong and it is possible that South Vietnam would inevitably be Communised', he answered. 
That is the view of one of the members of the legal Opposition in South Vietnam - that far from the consequences of United States intervention being the defeat of Communism - if that is what the United States is striving for in South Vietnam - the consequence of the continued American military presence will be at the end of 3 years the total Communising of Vietnam. Lieng went on to say: 
As for me, I am getting pretty old and 1 have a family. I could not join the Maquis.' 
The article then states that Lieng's former law partner, Nguyen Huu Tho, did take that step about 10 years ago and now heads the NLF. This is the situation of all the people who would be regarded as moderates, who in any way have dared to disagree with the police state government in South Vietnam. They have been imprisoned, driven into exile, killed or, whatever their original reservations may have been, have gone over to join the National Liberation Front.  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson concluded his statement by saying that history will show Australia was right not to stand idly by and refuse to lift a finger to help a small country attacked from without 
What have been the consequences? What conclusions is history already drawing as regards the intervention of the United States and Australia in South Vietnam? I wish now to quote a reference to another politician, an American whom  Senator Gair  would regard as a Communist. He certainly would be a very long way to the left of the Democratic Labor Party or of honourable senators sitting opposite. I am referring to United States  Senator Barry  Goldwater, a Republican senator from Arizona and a candidate for United States Presidency in 1964.  Senator Goldwater  is referred to in an article also appearing in the 'Washington Post' of 1 3th August 1970. The article states: 

 Senator Barry Goldwater predicted yesterday that the Senate would vote next week to abolish the draft- 
This proposal came from none other than  Senator Barry  Goldwater. He referred to the draft as 'a practice that has no place in our system of freedom'. 1 know that  Senator Barry  Goldwater would be suspect by  Senator Gair,  and by  Senator Webster  if he had heard of him. 

 - Senator Gair has made a concession. He says that Barry Goldwater would not be as suspect as I am, but would still be suspect.  Senator Goldwater  said, referring to the draft:   . . a practice that has no place in our system of freedom except as a temporary expedient. 
Then he said that he and  Senator Mark  O. Hatfield would offer an amendment.  Senator Mark  O. Hatfield is a Republican from Oregon. From the very beginning he has been one of the leading opponents of the Vietnam War. We now find that history, to which the Prime Minister referred in his statement, has now pushed the United States so far that even  Senator Barry  Goldwater finds it necessary in the interests of his country, as he sees it, to join forces with  Senator Hatfield  in proposing a Bill to abolish the draft. What did  Senator Goldwater  say about his amendment? He said: 
The amendment embraces many of the recommendations of the report of a presidential commission headed by Thomas S. Gates, who served as Defence Secretary in 1960. 
No doubt he is another suspect Communist, according to  Senator Gair.  He also called for the raising of military pay to attract volunteers - a deplorable proposal to the Australian Government. He proposed that the draft would end from 1st July. That is now the proposal that is coming from  Senator Goldwater. Senator Goldwater  himself is now opposed to the draft. He is now opposed to conscripting Americans to serve in Vietnam. Our Government is so far to the right that, by comparison with it and the Democratic Labor Party,  Senator Goldwater  looks like a conscientious objector. 
As something has been said about history judging what is right, I would now like to refer to what are some of the apparent consequences in the United Slates.  Mr John  Lindsay, the Mayor of New York, despite the fact that he lost the endorsement of his Party - the Republican Party - and was opposed by the party machines of both the Republicans and the Democrats, was re-elected as Mayor of New York in the mayoral elections towards the end of last year. A few days before the mayoral elections he marched at the head of the great Moratorium processions through the streets of New York. Mayor Lindsay has said repeatedly that not only is he opposed on moral grounds - on grounds of international sanity - to the United States policy in Vietnam, but also that American participation in the war in Vietnam is completely corroding and demoralising the life of America itself. One cannot see any reference by responsible Americans interested in social questions to the growing problem of crime or to the growing problem of drug addiction in the United States without sooner or later seeing reference to the problems which have been brought about in that country through the divisive, corrupting and brutalising effects of American participation in the Vietnam war. On every hand we find evidence of this. On every hand we find evidence of the effect which this war is having in corrupting American life. 
I would now like to refer to  Senator Hatfield  who is another very prominent Republican congressman. He is a former Governor of the State of Oregon. He was elected to the United States Senate, from the State of Oregon, with an overwhelming majority. He is a member of the President's Party. He has recently put forward a proposition calling for the total withdrawal of United States troops from South Vietnam. He was attacked shortly afterwards. 
 Senator Gair  says that that does not say it is right. J always thought that the main reason why we were in Vietnam was because of the American alliance. Now apparently  Senator Goldwater  and  Senator Hatfield  are to be disregarded, and I take it from  Senator Gair's  interjection . that he would like to stay in Vietnam himself after the Americans have gone. What does  Senator Hatfield  say? He says: 
Those who support the amendment, in Congress and the millions of citizens across the country, will not be intimidated by false and inflammatory charges. 
The Vice-President has chosen to speak about the dangers of American military defeat and has talked about seeing this war through to an end. 
But now we see a responsible plan for disengagement attacked with innuendo and emotional rhetoric, and hear pledges that 'this nation will not go down in humiliating defeat on the battlefield of South East Asia.' 
He says this about the United States, and I believe that it applies to the position in Australia to the same extent as it does to the position in the United States: 
On April 26, 1967, I stated in a speech: 'What kind of men have we at the helm of government who would deliberately coerce the public into accepting their policies on the threat of being branded traitors?' 
My position today has not changed. . . . 
The most repressive periods in history have occurred when public debate has been silenced by those who abused positions of political power. This has not been the exclusive domain of demagogues or dictators either on the left or on the right. Nazi Germany, McCarthyism, Hungary and Czechoslovakia all stand as examples of people intimidated into silence and fear. 
Full and rational discussion of vital issues, both here in the Congress and across the country, must not, and cannot, be curtailed by those who cry isolationist,' 'pacifist,' 'blind impatient politicians,' or other such divisive intimidations. 
The real threat to our American way of life is within the household of America rather than 10,000 miles away in Indo-China. 
The real threat to our Australian way of life is here inside this country - the destruction of our living standards, the intimidation of our trade unions and the intimidation of all those people who dare to speak against the rotten, corrupt war in Vietnam which every day increasing evidence is indicating we are losing. This is the first time in the history of Australia or in the recent history of the United States that our forces have been involved in an overseas war in which great masses of our people have been opposed to the Government's policy. This is corrupting and dividing our country in pursuit of an idiotic mission in South Vietnam which, if one reads the statements of the Prime Minister himself cannot be justified at all. The Minister's statements lack logic, cohesion, and any form of historical evidence. Yet in support of a statement such as this we are being asked to send Australians away to be killed. We are causing great harm to the country of Vietnam. We are abetting, by our rather timid compliance, the doing of great harm to the United States of America and through it to those many parts of the world over which the United States has vast influence. Above all, we are creating deep divisions within our country and causing what well may be irreparable harm to the people of Australia. 
Anybody who is concerned about democratic government in Australia would be singularly distressed by listening to the debate which has taken place on this motion this afternoon. I refer particularly to speeches by members of the Government parties and the Australian Democratic Labor Party. One of the most important rights of human beings is to be able to move freely from country to country. I think it would be reasonable to expect that when members of the Government parties and the DLP were supporting a proposition which denied the rights of a particular individual, a citizen of the United States of America, to come in to this country, very cogent arguments would need to be presented as to the character, behaviour, and associations of that man. One would expect them to be of such a nature as would warrant preventing him from entering Australia. But we have not heard that at all. We have heard certain innuendoes about his 5 convictions. 
Yes. A number of people with convictions have been admitted, but as I understand it, the convictions which  Mr Gregory  has received during the course of his career were imposed on him because of his activities in the civil rights movement in the United States. If anybody with minor convictions of the nature of  Mr Gregory's  convictions for activities in the civil rights movement should not be admitted to Australia, certainly the late  Dr Martin  Luther King should not have been admitted to this country. Certainly  Mr Meredith,  the man who was supported by the Kennedy Administration in integrating the University of Alabama, should not have been admitted to this country. Certainly  Mr Walter  Reuther, former  President  of the United Automobile Workers of the United States, who suffered convictions during the labour troubles of the 1930s, should not have been admitted to this country. Certainly many of the closest associates of the late  President  Kennedy and former  President  Johnson and associates of prominent members of the Republican Administration should not have been  admitted to this country. 
One of the most significant legal actions in which  Mr Gregory  was involved took place in Chicago when a demonstration occurred against the Mayor of Chicago,  Mr Daley.  After hearings in a lower court and in the Supreme Court of Illinois an application was made for a writ of certiorari to the Supreme Court of the United States. lt was granted on behalf of  Mr Gregory  and others. It might give some indication of the manner in which  Mr Gregory  conducts himself if I were to refer to part of the judgment of  Mr Justice  Hugo Black of the United States Supreme Court, which was delivered on 10th March 1969. lt refers to the episodes which took place in Chicago at that time.  Mr Justice  Black said: 
I also think the record shows that outside of the marching and propagandising of their views and protests, Gregory and his group while marching did all in their power to maintain order. Indeed, in the face of jeers, insults and assaults wilh rocks and eggs, Gregory and his group maintained a decorum that speaks well for their determination simply to tell their side of their grievances and complaints. Even the 'snake' and snake pit' invectives used by Gregory and his demonstrators, unlike some used by their hecklers, remained within the general give and take of heated political argument. Thus both police and demonstrators made their best efforts faithfully to discharge their responsibilities as officers and citizens, but  they  were nevertheless unable to restrain the hostile hecklers within decent and orderly bounds. 
This was the conviction which was subsequently referred to the Supreme Court of the United States. This is probably the best known of all the episodes in which  Mr Gregory  has been involved. One would take it from listening to  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Rae,  whom 1 find it very difficult to mention without a feeling of very strong distaste, that all of those persons in the United States who over the past 10 years have taken part in that great civil rights movement, that great movement to liberate a depressed minority of the American people, should be prevented from coming into Australia if they wished to visit this country.  Senator McManus  has been very free in his condemnation of  Mr Gregory. 
He  said that money is the only thing which interests  Mr Gregory.  I think it is well known - this has been well reported - that in fact  Mr Gregory  gave up a very highly paid position as an entertainer in New York City when he was asked to refrain from engaging in political satire. That in fact was his conduct. Far from seeking money, he gave up money so that he could continue to engage in his own form of political satire which is allowed in the United States of America. 
One knows very well where the  Senator Greenwoods  and  Senator McManuses  would have stood had they been in the United States during the time of that great movement of liberation which I suppose reached its peak in the demonstration which took place in the early 1960s outside the White House when the late  President  Kennedy, Walter Reuther, Martin Luther King, leaders of the trade unions and the churches and people like Dick Gregory demonstrated. They would have been the opponents of the people who were demonstrating for civil rights. I would be proud to be associated with a man like  Mr Gregory  who took part in a demonstration of that nature. 
It has been said that the Labor Party has a double standard, and some curiously extended argument has been introduced to bring in certain people who have been expelled from the Australian Labor Party or dealt with by the Australian Labor Party because they adopted a position different from that of the Australian Labor Party. Let us take this at its very worst. Let us put the harshest possible construction upon what the Australian Labor Party did. Let us say that the Australian Labor Party is a rigid organisation which ruthlessly expels anyone who deviates in any way from the stated Party policy or viewpoint of the leadership of the Australian Labor Party. Let us accept that that is the position. There is still no parallel whatever between the actions of a voluntary body in excluding persons from its membership and the action of a state in refusing permission to persons to enter a country. There is no parallel whatever between the actions of any voluntary body in deciding which persons shall be members of that voluntary body and the actions of a state in deciding whether people shall be free to move around the world. 
During the course of this week we have heard various pious sentiments expressed by members of the Government parties and its satellite Party about the position of certain minority groups inside the Soviet 
Union. I think I have made my views with regard to the Soviet Union fairly well known and I will not engage in a red baiting campaign in order to make myself sound acceptable to any of those people because I have no desire to be acceptable to them. I would think that those people would be the last to talk about a double standard, yet they are the ones who posture as the defenders of democracy and at the same time prevent the free transit of a person into this country without producing one shred or tittle of argument to show why he should be prevented from doing so. The person in question has been described as an anarchist. We have not had any definition of an anarchist. A number of eminent people have been described as anarchists. I suppose  Sir Herbert  Read was the most eminent British anarchist. 

 - Senator Sim has not heard of  Sir Herbert  Read but I am afraid that I cannot engage in an adult education class at this stage. I do not think that  Sir Herbert  Read was ever prevented from entering Australia. Dali was an anarchist; Luis Bunuel, the film director, is an anarchist; a number of people are anarchists. It is news to me that  Mr Dick  Gregory is an anarchist. If he is an anarchist, so what? Are people being excluded because they hold a certain political and social doctrine? Is that what the Government is saying? 
South Africa has been mentioned. I belong to an organisation which argues that Australia should not have sporting ties with South Africa. 
Because we believe that by doing so we encourage racism inside South Africa. But I have never said that people with South African passports should be refused permission to enter Australia. I have never said that any South African should be refused entry into Australia. It is a totally different thing to say that one is opposed to having sporting ties with the officially selected sporting team from a certain country and to say that the citizens of that country should be refused entry into Autsralia. I have never advocated that any South Africans should be refused entry into Australia. The only such matter that has been raised by the Opposition - this was referred to this afternoon by  Senator McManus  - relates to Air Vice-Marshal Hawkins. Two persons who hold important positions in the Rhodesian Government are Air Vice-Marshal Hawkins and  Colonel Knox,  both of whom were born in Australia and both of whom are travelling around the world on Australian passports carrying out diplomatic missions for the Rhodesian illegal regime. All that the leader of the Australian Labor Party has argued, all that the Australian Labor Party itself has argued, is that the onus should be on those people to decide whether they are Australian or whether they support the illegal regime in Rhodesia so that the Australian Government may act in accordance with the decisions of the United Nations. That is a fair enough proposition. We have never said that Hawkins, because of his behaviour in Rhodesia, should be refused permission to enter Australia if he decided to take up an Australian passport. 
This country has become the subject of ridicule throughout the world. If we are not chasing books we are preventing comedians coming here.  Senator Kennelly  has said that it is a pity that this is damaging Australia's good name. I believe that if a country has a bad policy then its bad policy should give it a bad name, and I believe that Australia should have a bad name for what it has done on this occasion. Only a short time ago  Dr Cairns  and I applied for permission to enter the United States to speak in opposition to the Vietnam war. I was invited by the National Committee for a Sane Nuclear Policy. As a result perhaps of some of my activities I. finished up with a No. 28 stamp on my visa which meant that I was to be subjected to particular scrutiny as a subversive. But I was admitted to the United States of America and 1 travelled throughout the United States of America without any let or hindrance. When Professor Owen Lattimore was driven from his employment in the United States by Senior Joseph McCarthy's committee in the 1930s he was able to obtain sanctuary in Britain as Professor of History at Leeds. 
Despite the follies and blunders which the United States has committed I am not one of those who denounce the United States for everything that it does. I object to its policy on Vietnam but I believe that its domestic policy is so far ahead of that of its satellites opposite that it would terrify any Liberal with even the adventurousness of its ideas. Only the other night  Senator Gair  accused  Senator Barry  Goldwater of being a Communist or fellow traveller. 
If the honourable senator questions what I have said he should refer to Hansard. The reason why the United States of America still retains some allegiance and support from a great many people throughout the world is because it has stood for certain guaranteed rights of citizens, in particular the freedom of movement of people. It is no use  Senator Greenwood  saying that the preventing of  Mr Gregory  from coming to Australia is not an infringement of the liberty of anybody in Australia because it is an infringement of the liberty of all Australians. It is an infringement of the liberty of Australians to have contact with people from other countries who have been invited to come to this country. This is the action of a disintegrating government. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) [3.37] - I listened with great interest to  Senator Murphy's  remarks about the matter of urgency which he raised. The thing that has disturbed me the most is the fact that  Senator Murphy  has accused the Government of the crime of refusing an entry permit to  Mr Gregory  because he is a negro. I recollect distinctly that  Senator Murphy  accused the Government of racism. The point I wish to make is that not only was a visa to enter Australia refused to  Mr Gregory  by the ConsulGeneral in New York but also at the same time a visa was refused to a  Mr McGraw.  The applications for visas were made by both men on the appropriate form at the same, time at the office of the Consul-General.  Mr McGraw  is of pure European descent. 
One thing which we have to determine in our minds, and which cannot be excluded from the problem which is engaging the attention of a substantial number of Australian people, is the so-called Vietnam Moratorium Campaign. The central theme in the concept of the Vietnam Moratorium Committee, which consists of a self elected, self selected and self directed group of people, is that if it thinks a law of the country is bad people are entitled to break it. The simple assertion that a law is a bad one is the sanction to break it. But this is not the theory only of the Vietnam Moratorium Committee because  Senator Poyser  also mentioned prior to the suspension of the sitting for lunch that a bad law should be broken. This is despite the fact that the whole fabric of society is based upon the rule of law and the concept of the rule of law under our system of government is that the law shall be passed by the Parliament and administered by the government. If a law should be changed, and undoubtedly there are many laws which should be changed as society evolves, that is the function and responsibility of the Parliament; it is not the responsibility of a mob in the street. 
Equally fundamental is that deep down inside a large number of members of the Australian Labor Party is the concept of Socialism. Socialism is based upon the concept that because all laws are made by the middle class or the capitalists they are inimical to the proletariat. That is the fundamental Socialist concept of any given problem. It is embedded in the very matrix of the dialectic approach of honourable senators opposite to the problems of government and changes in society. 
Let us examine the position of  Mr Gregory  in the concept of the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign. The former Vietnam Moratorium Committee was discharged and a new one formed. One of the members of the Vietnam Moratorium Committee was in the United States of America for a while. On returning to Australia he said that it was the intention of the new Committee to invite people from North Vietnam - Hanoi - to participate in the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign this month. At the same time as he made this statement 2 men appeared in the office of the Consul-General in New York -  Mr Gregory  and  Mr McGraw  - and applied for a visa to come to Australia. In the appropriate application form which is used - a copy of which 1 have in front of me - a space is provided in the top right hand corner for applicants to indicate the purpose of their visit. In both instances the purpose of the visit was stated to be 'sightseeing'. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - Order!  Senator Georges  will cease interjecting. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACKBoth of them said that their purpose for wishing to come to Australia was sightseeing. Both of them made their applications for a visa at the same time and both gave sightseeing as the reason for wishing to come to Australia. The 2 men were  Mr Gregor)'  and the man who edited his book. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACKBoth were refused at the same time. A function of government is to ensure that law and order is maintained. I suggest, in the strongest possible terms, that a reasonable deduction to he drawn is that the intention in bringing to Australia men who are known to have been involved in civil disturbances of one kind or another in their own country, if nothing else is known, was to set in being some of the circumstances by which civil commotion may or could arise in Australia. I think that, in those circumstances, the Australian Government cannot be accused of refusing entry to men who wanted to come to Australia for sightseeing nor can it be accused of refusing entry to men who wanted to come to Australia to bring alien ideas to Australians. The Government is refusing entry to two men whose arrival will be coincidental with a period when civil disturbance and commotion may take place in Australia. Any government that has any responsibility or any concept of the responsibilities that accrue to it as a government inevitably is bound to ask itself: Are these innocent sightseers or have they an ulterior motive?' If they were innocent sightseers they would have stated in their application for a visa that they were coming at the invitation of the Vietnam Moratorium Committee in Melbourne. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Air. Has he seen a newspaper report that yesterday the Western Australian executive of the Australian Country Party carried a resolution calling on the Australian Country Party to withdraw from the present Government coalition unless a statutory wool marketing authority is established by the Commonwealth Government? Is the report correct? If so, does the Minister agree with the Western Australian executive of the Australian Country Party or with the Government? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. Is the Minister aware that the New Zealand Government has appointed a Commissioner to hear appeals from persons who believe that they have in some way been prejudiced by reports from the New Zealand security service? Would the Minister consider recommending to the Attorney-General that the Australian Government appoint a similar official or tribunal in this country? 
My question to the Leader of the Government refers to a statement made in the adjournment debate last night by  Senator Greenwood  in which he referred to the rules of the Australian Labor Party precluding the association of members of the Labor Party with members of the Communist Party. The honourable senator went on to say: 
I simply ask whether the Labor Party has dealt with  Dr Cairns  because he has spoken on platforms with  Mr Carmichael  and  Mr Goldbloom. 
In view of the fact that this is a clear indication that  Mr Goldbloom  is a member of the Communist Party, and in view of the fact that  Mr Goldbloom  is a respected member of the Australian Labor Party and has been an Australian Labor Party candidate for Parliament, will the Leader of the Government issue an apology to  Mr Goldbloom  for this unjustified smear which has been made against him within the sanctuary of Parliament? 
It is not my responsibility to sit in judgment on what was said in the adjournment debate last night. Several matters were raised on the adjournment last night. The honourable senator has put his own interpretation upon what  Senator Greenwood  said and has asked me to make some apology for what  Senator Greenwood  said.  Senator Greenwood  is responsible for whatever he said and I certainly do not believe that I should press him to make apologies to the honourable senator or to anybody else. The debate on the adjournment last night was very torrid. I listened to the debate and I did not gain the impression that the honourable senator is now implying. 
My question, which I direct to the Minister representing the Attorney-General, refers to the appeal made by Professor David Armstrong and other members of the Association for Cultural Freedom - all supporters of the Government's war policy in Vietnam - and the call for an inquiry into all the circumstances relating to the disturbances associated with the Sydney Moratorium. Professor Armstrong and his colleages referred to statements made by what they described as unimpeachable sources giving prima facie evidence of unjustified police action against the demonstrators. In view of the latter part of the statement by Professor Armstrong and his colleagues in the Association for Cultural Freedom, and in view of the Minister's earlier answer, does he believe that these people are members of a conspiracy dedicated to discrediting Australian police forces and destroying law and order in this country? 
-I present from 5 citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That they are not gravely concerned that moral standards in the Australian community may be changing, particularly in regard to the community's willingness to treat adults within itas reasonable and responsible people who are capable of making up their own minds as to what may be perfectly acceptable or unacceptable material in books, magazines, plays, films and television and radio programmes, and particularly when this material depicts life in human society, including language habits and sex habits and gives warning of the dangers of the use of violence and narcotic drugs; 
That they in fact welcome this change, having regard for the fact that it demonstrates an increasing tolerance of and respect for the rights of individuals to think their own way through their own lives, free from information-withholding restrictions which people of one religion or one standard of morals may seek to impose on cither the majority of minority who do not hold the same views; 
That they question the simplistic view that nations 'perish' because of a so-called 'internal moral decay' unless such 'decay' is taken to include an increasing unwillingness to face the facts of life in open discussion and freedom of thought; 
That they welcome the statement by the Honourable the Minister for Customs and Excise,  Mr Chipp,  that the concept of censorship is abhorrent to all men and women who believe in the basic freedoms and that, as a philosophy, it is evil and ought to be condemned - 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on Alms, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to give the maximum freedom to adults to choose what they will watch, read and listen to, even in the face of pressure from those who seek to impose their ideas and morals on others who do not share them. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government. As South Africa will be entering an all white women's team in the Federation Cup tennis series to be held in Perth in December, despite the fact that South Africa has been expelled from the International Lawn Tennis Federation, will the Government take advantage of the occasion to inform the South African Government that in future the refusal of permission to any Australian of non-European origin to enter South Africa would be resented by the people of this country? 
I address a question to the Leader of the Government. Does the Government seriously suggest that if China has aggressive aims which must be resisted by Australia, these aggressive aims would be advanced more by Australia having an embassy in Peking than they are by the extensive sales of Australian goods to that country? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI have made the Australian attitude abundantly clear. There has been no change in the Government's attitude in relation to the establishment of diplomatic relations with Red China. 
I wish to speak only very briefly. The first thing I wish to say on the matter which is before us is that I think that all members of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange will agree with me that its immediate proceedings are a matter of great urgency which ought to be dealt with this afternoon. The other point I wish to make is a more general one. I believe that there will have to be at some stage consideration of the whole matter of the sitting of committees of the Senate and the Senate as a whole. The present situation appears to be most unsatisfactory. My impression of the situation in, for example, the United States Congress is that sittings of committees take place while the 2 Houses of Congress are in session. I may be incorrect, but this is my understanding of the situation. My opinion is that if the system is to be workable it may be necessary to vary the Standing Orders to allow committees to sit while the Senate is in full session. 
 Senator Byrne  has reminded me that normally there is not a very big attendance of members in the Senate chamber in the United States. This is correct. I believe that there would probably be more profit in having honourable senators sitting on committees^ - whether they be standing committees or Senate select committees - in which they have a close interest than having them sitting in the chamber doing nothing but listening to what others are saying. I do not want to labour this point at the moment other than to say that it seems to me that if we are to have a workable committee system we will, in view of the long hours of sitting of the Senate, either have to reconsider the continued existence of the committees or reconsider the Standing Orders in relation to the prevention of committees sitting while the full Senate is sitting. I repeat  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack Y statement that the matter which is before us at the moment is of great urgency. I believe that the motion which has been put ought to be carried. 
ls the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs aware of the considerable opposition of India, Pakistan, Ceylon, Tanzania, and most of the other nations bordering the Indian Ocean to the proposed sale of arms by the British Government to the Republic of South Africa? Does the Minister not agree that (he implied support of the Australian Government for the proposed arms sales to South Africa is dangerous to Australia's friendly relations with our Indian. Ocean neighbours and consequently to any role which this country may wish to play in safeguarding (he peace of the Indian Ocean area? Has the Australian Government had any discussions, or does it intend to have any discussions, with the governments of the countries in this area who are opposed to the arms sales with the purpose of ensuring that this Government's solicitude for the South African Government does not imperil our relations with those countries, whose friendship is essential to Australia? 
Some little lime ago the Prime Minister made a statement in another place in response to a question about Australia's attitude to this matter. I add nothing to what he said. I suggest that the subsequent part of the honourable senator's question should go on the notice paper. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Does the Government believe it proper that a foreign embassy should enlist nationals of the country it represents to spy upon the political activities of others of that country's nationals who are resident in Australia? What inquiries has the Government made concerning allegations that the Embassy of the Saigon Government has attempted to enlist such spies? What does the Government intend to do about this matter? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, ls it a fact, as reported, that the Australian Broadcasting Commission has instructed one of its senior officers,  Mr Allan  Ashbolt, that he cease writing articles for the London journal 'New Statesman'? Can the Minister assure the Senate that no such instructions have been given? As articles written by officers including senior officers, of the Australian Broadcasting Commission appear frequently in other publications, if the report is correct why was this instruction given to  Mr Ashbolt? 
1 address a question ro the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. Are ihe statistics of the Australian Wheat Board correct in saying that Australian wheat sales to Rhodesia have increased by 25 per cent during the past 11 months? Is this not a breach of the United Nations resolutions on Rhodesia? Does the Government still abide by the often refuted argument that these wheat sales to Rhodesia are necessary for humanitarian reasons when it is well known that the African population of Rhodesia does not include wheat as part of its diet? 
I have said before that the sale of wheat to Rhodesia is within the provisos of the United Nations resolutions relating to that matter. I have not available to me the statistics relating to sales, but I shall endeavour to get them and make them available. If the honourable senator is purporting to suggest in his question that the statistics which have been given have been interfered with or are inaccurate, or anything of that nature, I would have to refer that matter. 
I am not suggesting that. 
The honourable senator is not suggesting that. If the honourable senator is just asking for the figures I shall get them for him. As to the conditions of sale, 1 repeat that the sales are made under terms and conditions which are quite within the framework of the rulings and provisos of revolutions made by the United Nations. 
My question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate follows a question asked earlier by  Senator Greenwood  of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry as to the allegedly high component of labour cost in the costs of primary industry. Is it not a fact that the greater part of the expenses of persons who are seeking justice in the courts is the cost of barristers and solicitors? Does the Government intend to take any action on this matter or is it the Government's opinion that it should only resist charges for labour which are made by members of industrial unions and not by members of professions which traditionally support the conservative parties? 
I support the motion moved by  Senator Cavanagh.  So far as is possible I shall refrain from commenting on any of the statements which have just been made by the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright).  The discussion which took place before the Regulations and Ordinances Committee was conducted without acrimony, despite the fact -that members hold strong opinions about the National Service Act. There was a considerable measure of give and take and some members of the Committee substantially changed their opinions. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - The point of order is upheld. 
I would like to speak to the point of order. I was not referring to the proceedings in the sense that I was describing them. I was referring to the manner in which the proceedings were conducted. I submit that that is quite different from referring to the proceedings of the Committee. If I say that the Committee conducted itself in a manner in which there was give and take between all present, and that all displayed a reasonable attitude, I submit that that is not referring to the proceedings of the Committee within the terms of the standing order. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Very well, but the honourable senator must understand that he is not allowed to refer' to the proceedings before the Committee. 
I appreciate your ruling,  Sir, I  had no intention whatsoever of canvassing the discussions which took place before the Committee. 1 was merely referring to the manner in which the Committee discussed at considerable length a very complex matter. My concluding reference to  Senator Wright  is that it was not until we came into the chamber today that we found rudeness and abuse introduced into this very complex discussion. I think it would befit  Senator Wright  much better as a member of the legal profession and as a Minister- 
I shall withdraw. I merely say that although  Senator Wright  may not regard his remarks as rudeness and abuse, when the members of the Committee made their various comments not one of them referred to people having muddled minds or used words such as 'tendentiousness', which have been used by  Senator Wright.  I will say again, without referring to the proceedings of the Committee, that comments such as those which have been made today by  Senator Wright  were not heard from anybody during the proceedings of the Committee. I will let it go at that and leave it to the imagination of honourable senators as to what sort of comments one could reasonably conclude that  Senator Wright  made. 
This matter required the very close attention of the Committee because it contains some major principles which the Senate Regulations and Ordinances Committee needs to follow in order properly to exercise its function. I remind honourable senators that the Committee has a reputation for properly exercising its function. 1 believe that the purposes of the Committee in examining regulations and ordinances are, first, to see that there is no arbitrary exercise of discretion by the Executive - that undue discretionary powers are not given to it; secondly, to see that the rights and liberties of the subject are not unnecessarily interfered with; thirdly, that matters which should properly be dealt with by legislation are not included in regulations and ordinances; fourthly - I believe this is a very important point which does attract the attention of the Committee - that if there are circumstances where the Commit tee believes that any of these matters have arisen, they should be of sufficient substance to warrant a resolution from the Committee that the regulation or ordinance not be accepted by the Senate. It would need to be a matter of some substance. It may not, perhaps, fulfil all of the requirements to which I have referred but it would need to depart reasonably substantially from them before it would warrant action by the Committee in recommending that the regulation or ordinance be not accepted. 
I shall not refer to the proceedings of the Committee but 1 should say that it has had to examine the existing provisions for persons who are or who claim to be conscientious objectors under the National Service Act. Prior to the bringing down of the regulation about which we are speaking this afternoon, the position has been that a person who believed that he held a conscientious objection of such a nature as to fall within the definition of a conscientious objection set out in our law is able to make application to a court to be recognised as a conscientious objector. Instances have occurred, or are believed to have occurred, of persons who could well have been found to be conscientious objectors had they made an application for classification as such and who, in addition to having a conscientious objection to military service, may also have had some form of objection to the National Service Act in particular. These persons, for whatever reasons, despite the fact that were they to have made an application to a court they would have been found by it to have been conscientious objectors, declined to make any such application. 
Putting, as I think, the most favourable possible interpretation upon the intentions of the Government in introducing this regulation, it would appear that what the Government is attempting to do - whatever its motives may be - is to bring about a state of affairs whereby a person who does have a conscientious objection which would fall within the existing law, but who for some reason or other declines to make an application to the court, may be brought before the court. The court would then find that this person is a conscientious objector without his having made application to get into court. Although I can see some disadvantages in it, this clearly would have some advantages. 
However, the regulation we are debating gives to the Minister the discretion to refer to the court certain instances where he has  some  sort of belief that a question of conscientious objection does arise. The first thing that may be said about this is that the Minister may refer any such case; the regulation does not say that he shall refer any such case. This seems to me. at any rate, to give to the Minister a rather undesirable discretionary power but  1  do noi intend to labour that point, f do see that there are arguments which can be produced as to why the word may should be placed in a regulation which deals with such a complex set of circumstances, rather than the word shall. Nonetheless it is still my opinion that the word shall should be used rather than the word may, and that there should not be this discretion. 
It has been argued - I think with some justice - that if a person does not wish to exercise the present rights he has under the National Service Act for classification as a conscientious objector, and if he is prepared to take the consequences which follow for a person who refuses to comply with the Act, he should be entitled to refuse to comply with the Act subject to his taking the consequences of that refusal.  1  believe it affects the rights and liberties of the subject if an individual is brought before a court and argument takes place in the court as to whether or not he is a conscientious objector without his having applied to go before that court. This in itself could deprive him of certain rights and liberties. 
For example, it could mean that this person would be found to be a conscientious objector. This would,  1  admit, be a minor objection. He could be found to be a conscientious objector when he had an objection to the whole Act and did not want to be found to be a conscientious objector but merely wanted to take the consequences of refusing to register. But what is more serious is that, without his having made an application, he could be found not to be a conscientious objector. It may well be said that, if he had refused to register and had suffered the consequences of not being found to bc a conscientious objector, his material situation would not be very greatly affected by this. At the same time this could be, to a person involved in this situation, something of very great importance. 
A man may be a conscientious objector within the meaning of the law of our country. He may refuse to make application under the Act. Yet for some reason or other he may find himself brought before the court and the court may find he is not a conscientious objector because in fact he has produced no evidence to establish that he is a conscientious objector, although in fact he has not claimed that he is a conscientious objector. This, in itself, is an infringement of this person's rights. The other - perhaps more substantially material - infringement of his rights would follow if this were to have the consequence that were he to change his mind, not about his conscientious objection but about his particular objection to the operation of the Act, and if he desired at some later date to make an application to be classified as a conscientious objector, the previous finding of the court that he was not a conscientious objector would prejudice any subsequent application he may make. 
I hope I am not referring to the proceedings of the Committee in saying this -  if I may say so, on my reading of the regulation I agree with this argument - but it has been argued that in fact the regulation does not bring the hearing of an application into court; it merely brings a person who potentially could be an applicant for classification as a conscientious objector to the threshold of the court, lt has been said that in some way the Government is giving some assistance to this person. I am not saying this in anyway satirically. It has been said that the Government, in fact would be giving some assistance to this person by bringing him along to the court where he does have the opportunity of being heard on the question of whether or not he is a conscientious objector and he can then make up his mind as to whether or not he wishes to proceed. 
 Senator Byrne  has asked me whether I believe that this position is the same as that of a person who will not enter a plea and therefore a plea of npt guilty is entered for him. If this were the case I would have somewhat stronger objections than I would have merely from a reading of the regulation. I would not have thought that that was the way in which the regulation read. The way in which the regulation read would have seemed to me to be that if he refused to enter a plea then no plea would have been entered at all because the person involved would not be a defendant or a respondent, but would be placed in the position of an applicant applying to be regarded as a conscientious objector. So it is not a question of entering a plea; it is a question rather of not entering a plaint. 
And it would follow that there would be no hearing and nothing would happen. I am rather at a loss to know what this is all about. Why do we have a regulation by which someone is taken to court and is not required to make a plaint or plea if there is no indication that anyone will apply for anything? It seems to me to be a rather strange exercise, in fact an exercise which to me is inexplicable. On the other hand, however, it may well be said that at least no one is worse off. The man has been brought to court. The court has asked: 'Do you want to apply to be found a conscientious objector?' He replies: 'No, I do not.' It is then said to him: 'Very well, we will all go away.' That may seem to be a waste of time but, apart from the time lost in going there, no one is any worse off. 
Let me refer to the case against  Mr Carmichael  - I am quoting now from newspaper reports - which occurred this month in the City Court in Melbourne before  Mr R.  J. Kelly SM. This would seem to me to be strictly in accord with my reading of the regulation. When counsel for the Department of Labour and National Service and counsel for  Mr Carmichael  appeared in court both said that they had no evidence to offer. The learned magistrate said that as he had heard nothing he could find nothing, and therefore he ordered that the case be struck out. That seems to me to be completely proper within the terms of the regulation. There was no hearing and  Mr Carmichael,  apart from the time that may have been wasted in going to the court, was no worse off. 
The Carmichael case was heard in Melbourne on 8th October 1970. On 7th October 1970 a case was heard in the Perth Court of Petty Sessions by  Mr Ansell  SM. in which a  Mr Gary  James Cook was in the same position as was  Mr Carmichael. Mr Cook  did not appear in court nor did he have any counsel representing him, but another person went along as an agent and made a statement on behalf of  Mr Cook  in the course of which he said that  Mr Cook  refused to participate in the hearing, that he did not apply for conscientious objector status and that he did not wish to be classified as a conscientious objector within the terms of reference of the National Service Act. Cook said he did not wish to be classified as a conscientious objector and  Senator Wright  has told us that that is just the same as  Mr Cook  going along and saying: T am not a conscientious objector.' I submit that there is all the difference in the world between someone saying: T am not a conscientious objector,' and someone saying: 'I do not wish to apply to be classified as a conscientious objector within the terms of the National Service Act.' 
A person may nol wish to apply to be classified as a conscientious objector within the terms of the National Service Act either, even though, within Australian law, he is a conscientious objector or, within Australian law, he is not a conscientious objector. This tells us nothing about whether he is or is not a conscientious objector; it merely tells us that he does not wish to apply to be classified as a conscientious objector. The learned magistrate, having heard all of this, said he found that  Mr Cook  did not hold conscientious beliefs which would not allow him to engage in military service. It would seem to me, from my own reading of the regulation, that that was not a decision which was open to the learned magistrate seeing that  Mr Cook  had given no evidence of his conscientious beliefs other than that he did not wish to be classified under the Act. I fail to see how the magistrate could have found what conscientious beliefs  Mr Cook  held. 
If one were to take this situation to what would seem to me to be its obvious conclusion, it would have been just as open to the magistrate in exactly the same set of circumstances to have reached the opposite decision to that which he reached. If Cook had not attended the court, if the same student had appeared on his behalf and if, in the course of his statement he had said that Cook wished to be classified as a conscientious objector within the terms of reference of the National Service Act the magistrate could have said with equal logic: 'Well, in view of that statement 1 find that you are a conscientious objector.' lt would seem to me to be just as. open to the magistrate to bring down that decision. If he could find without evidence being tendered that  Mr Cook  did not have a conscientious objection, it would seem to me that with the same absence of evidence he could find that another person was a conscientious objector. If you cannot find that someone is a conscientious objector after such a statement as the one made in this case, I fail to see how you can find that someone is not a conscientious objector. 
It may well be that the learned magistrate in the Perth Court of Petty Sessions did not bring clown a decision which would be upheld by a superior court were the matter taken to it. The fact is that the matter has not been taken to any superior court. It would be my opinion that for 2 such contradictory decisions to be handed down by 2 learned magistrates, one in Melbourne and one in Perth, in what were virtually identical circumstances - I believe that the statement made on behalf of  Mr Cook  was not evidence and that it added nothing to what was said in the Carmichael case - indicates considerable ambiguity in the regulation. If 2 magistrates can come to such contrary decisions, clearly the meaning of the regulation would not be apparent to the public at large. 
Once again  Senator Devitt  reminds me of the rights and liberties of the individual. Certainly if the decision which was reached in Perth is to be regarded as a proper decision within the terms of the Act, then clearly the rights and liberties of an individual are very severely interfered with because the Act enables a court to come to a decision without any evidence having been given by anyone. In this case the court made a decision of a very serious nature, that is. that a person was acting in breach of the National Service Act without having any conscientious objection. The court having arrived at that decision, a serious interference with the rights and liberties of the person involved took place despite the fact that no evidence was given either by  Mr Cook  or by the Department of Labour and National Service. In this very mysterious hearing which took place in Perth one would find it difficult to say who the patties were. Who was the applicant? There was no applicant. Who was the respondent? There was no respondent. It was a hearing without any parties being present and without any evidence being presented and a decision was made on nothing.  Senator Wright  says thai he cannot see the difference between the decision in the case in Perth and the decision in the case in Melbourne. Frankly, I believe him. He probably cannot see the difference but that does not suggest to me that there is not a difference. 
I believe that 1 have canvassed so far as is relevant the issues involved in this regulation. Despite what may be said to the contrary, it seems to me that ambiguous laws are not desirable. Regulations which give discretionary powers to Ministers are not desirable although I believe that in this case there may be some argument for the exercise of those discretionary powers. Certainly there is an infringement of the rights and liberties of individuals insofar as they should have the right to be regarded among their peers as either having or not having a conscientious objection only if they choose to give evidence that they do have such a conscientious objection. It seems to me to bc a gross breach of a person's rights if a stale of affairs is reached in which a person is found not to have a conscientious objection without his ever having applied to be regarded as a conscientious objector. 
I do not have any idea, and I do not intend to discuss the situation in North Vietnam. Before  Senator Webster  arrived I was trying to discuss the matter on the merits of the regulation, i realise that that would be a rather difficult task for him to engage in, but I do not intend to digress from the discussion of the regulation. 
I know that there are people who, with very great sincerity and with a very great knowledge of the law, on balance have come to a different decision on this matter from that to which I have come. In the light of the 2 decisions - I am speaking purely personally here - if it were not for the decision taken by the Perth magistrate or if, after the decision had been taken by the Perth magistrate, some undertaking had been given that an amendment was to be made to the regulations to prevent such decisions being taken in future, my own personal inclination would be not to oppose the regulation. But that has not been done. So, because of that decision, I believe that the regulation should not be allowed by the Senate. 
 Mr Chairman.  I only wish to speak rather briefly on the subject of non-European immigration. 
Is the Minister representing the Postmaster-General aware that the General Manager of the Australian Broadcasting Commission,  Mr Duckmanton,  played a controversial role in the events leading to the resignation of Reverend D. A. Trathen from his position as Headmaster of Newington College? Is she aware that several officers of the ABC, including the  Deputy  General Manager,  Mr Semmler,  frequently contribute articles to various journals? In order to allay any suspicion that the Commission is guilty of bias in the treatment of its officers, will the Minister urgently provide an answer, before the end of this sessional period, to question No. 795, of which I gave notice on 26th October and in which I asked whether the Commission had instructed  Mr Allan  Ashbolt to cease writing articles for the London Journal 'New Statesman"? 
asked the Minis  ter  representing the Minister for External  Affairs, upon  notice: 
Is the Minister aware of the consistent opposition of India, Pakistan, Ceylon, Tanzania and most of the nations bordering the Indian Ocean to the proposed sale of arms to the Republic of South Africa by the British Government. 
Is the sympathetic support of the Australian 
Government to the proposed arms sales to South Africa implied; and could this be dangerous to Australia's friendly relations with its Indian Ocean neighbours and consequently to any role which Australia may wish to play in safeguarding the peace of the Indian Ocean area. 
Has the Australian Government had any discussions, or does it intend to have any discussions, with the governments of those countries in this area which are opposed to the arms sales with the purpose of ensuring that this government's solicitude for the South African Government does not imperil our relations with those countries whose friendship is essential to Australia. 
The  Minister for External  Affairs has furnished  the following reply: 
The Government is aware that opposition has been expressed by a number of countries to the proposed resumption by Britain of the sale of arms to South Africa. 
The Australian Government's position regarding the proposal is quite clear. It is that it is a matter for decision by the British Government. However, if the British Government should come to the conclusion that the protection of her sea routes requires the provision ofmaritime arms to South Africa under the Simonstown Agreement, the Australian Government has no intention of expressing opposition. Australia itself does not sell arms to South Africa and has no intention  of  doing so. This, we believe  is  well understood by our friends in the Indian Ocean area. 
The Australian Government is in frequent consultation with Commonwealth and other friendly governments both directly and at the United Nations in New York on a variety of matters of mutual concern. 
asked the Minis  ter  representing the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
Does the Government believe that a foreign embassy should enlist nationals of the country it represents to spy upon the political activities of others of that country's nationals resident in Australia. 
What inquiries has the Government made into allegations that the South Vietnamese Embassy has enlisted or attempted to enlist such spies. 
What action does the Australian Government propose to take in the matter. 
The Minister for External Affairs stated on 23 October that he understood the natural anxiety of Vietnamese representatives in Australia to keep in touch with their students, but he doubted the wisdom of the way they had chosen to do so. The Minister confirms this statement and has no wish to add to it. 
A copy of the official translation of the Embassy of the Republic of Vietnam's letter of 30th September 1968, to  Mr Truong  Phuoc Truong has been made available to the Department of External Affairs. The position of the Embassy of the Republic of Vietnam in regard to this matter was stated in its press release of 25th October. 
No further action is proposed on this matter. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the 
Minister for Primary Industry. Are we to understand from his answers to earlier questions concerning working hours in industry that the Minister would be in favour of lengthening the existing hours worked by Australian workers? Does he believe that the present 40-hour week is inadequate? If so, will he made clear during the current Senate campaign in Western Australia, particularly in the metropolitan area, that he favours an extension of existing working hours? 
I move: 
That the House of Representatives be requested to amend the Second Schedule by reducing the vote - Divisions 230-246, Department of Education and Science, $129,478,000- by $2 - as an instruction to the Government that it should: 
use its good offices to secure the immediate publication of the Commonwealth-States survey of educational needs and make emergency grants accordingly; 
establish committees to examine and make recommendations on - 
the objectives and quality of Australian education; and 
inequalities of education opportunities, and 
establish continuing commissions to investigate and make recommendations on - 
pre-schools, 
primary and secondary education, 
tertiary education; such a tertiary commission to co-ordinate all forms of tertiary education including teachers colleges; and 
the co-ordination of all levels of education. 
The Opposition is making this request because it believes that in the debate on the estimates of the Department of Education and Science it is essential that certain well established policies of the Australian Labor Party be put before the Senate. These policies are policies which either in whole or in part are held not only by the Australian Labor Party but also by  a  number of responsible bodies throughout Australia dedicated to the needs and improvement of Australian education. I appreciate that there has been considerable debate in another place on the proposals which are contained in the motion which I have just moved, and for that reason I do not intend to spend as much time in speaking to the motion as I might have were this motion presented to the Senate in circumstances different from those in which we find ourselves today. 
I shall deal first with paragraph (a) of the motion. This paragraph deals with perhaps one of the most basic necessities of having a proper understanding of what the purposes of Australian education are, and without having this proper understanding it would seem to be impossible to improve in any way our educational system. If we do not know what we are trying to do, it would seem to me that it will be very difficult for us even to do what we are at present doing with any sort of sense, and certainly impossible to make any substantial improvements. Paragraph (a) requests that the Government should:  use its good offices to secure the immediate publication of the Commonwealth-States survey of educational needs and make emergency grants accordingly; 
The Opposition appreciates that in any survey of educational needs unilateral action by this Government would not be sufficient; there would need to be cooperation with the States. The Opposition appreciates also that there are State governments with differing viewpoints and that there may well be - in fact it would be surprising if there were not - contradictory views expressed by the States on what the individual States regard as the needs of education within their own provinces. However, there certainly would be a number of basic requirements which without any ideological differences or without any differences of approach could be readily obtainable from all the States with the co-operation of the Commonwealth. It will need to be known to this Government, the Commonwealth Parliament, the State parliaments, the Australian people and in particular those people who are working in education precisely what the position is at the present time with regard to the adequacy of teaching staffs, the training of teaching staffs and the facilities such as buildings and equipment for the education of students at present attending institutions of learning in Australia. This information will have to be published. There will also need to be an examination to determine what will be the needs posed by any projected increase in population, particularly in those age groups who receive education. There also needs to be an examination of what occupations, what skills and what trades are those in which it is necessary to have a higher proportion of persons being 'trained and educated than at the present time. 
Paragraph (a) of the motion asks precisely for the publication of such a survey. 
Paragraph (b) follows, quite naturally, from paragraph (a). It calls on the Government to establish committees. We are not in any way being pedantic or dogmatic about how many committees there should be or about which persons or which classes of persons should constitute these committees, although it would obviously have to be understood that at least some of these persons would be experts within various fields of education. We call on the Government to establish committees to examine and make recommendations on the objectives and quality of Australian education and also the inequalities of education opportunities. 1 believe it is essential that the Government should have some guidelines as to what are the objective of our education system. 
Amongst industrialised Western countries, and indeed amongst those countries which have reached a sufficient stage of technical advancement to have fairly sophisticated systems of education, there are great divergences of opinion as to what are the goals of education. There are societies in which it is believed that the primary purpose of education is a narrow functional purpose; that the purpose of education is to train people to deal with the necessary machinery; to understand the instructions which they are given as they go around the streets; that certain people should be perhaps only literate and no more in order to be trained in some simple occupation and that other persons should be highly skilled in certain occupations which require technical expertise. Other people in advanced Western countries believe that there are other purposes in education. 
For example, if one narrows it down to 2 countries which are different in many respects - the United States of America and South Africa, at least so far as the white population is concerned - there is an insistence in the field of tertiary education at the university level that before one proceeds to special studies, such as the study of law, it is necessary that there should be a study of the humanities in any university course. In many countries the goal of education is to see that all those persons who  axe  capable of receiving it, whatever occupation they might subsequently follow and however, m the usual terminology, menial their occupation might be - and I for one do not agree that any useful occupation is a menial one - should receive it. It is believed that all citizens, however unskilled might be the occupation which they subsequently follow, should be trained in the humanities in order to obtain an understanding of their civilisation and the culture of their country, and indeed of other cultures. 
I do not believe that the Government has given a clear indication - and I think I could say that I do not think sufficiently clear indications have been given by any of the other political parties - as to the basic purpose of education in Australia. Is it merely to enable enough people to build houses or to drive engines or to fly aeroplanes or to practise the law or to extract tonsils or to rill teeth in order to fulfil the material requirements of society, with the remainder of the population needing only sufficient education to be able to understand the Canberra 'Sunday Post', provided that they can get through the misprints? 
I am glad that  Senator Greenwood  shows enthusiasm for the Labor Party's platform. 
That 1 am not prepared to adhere to it? 
 I do not quite follow the point of  Senator Greenwood's  interjection, but 1 will not labour it at the moment. Perhaps he was not listening to what was being said. But what I am saying is that I do not believe that in Australia there is a sufficiently wide recognition of the purpose of education - whether it is merely to provide narrow training in certain skills or whether it is to do something which is broader, wider and deeper than that. In the past it has seemed to me from various statements which have been made by some people who  at  least have held prominent positions in the Government, that the purpose of education in their minds is no more than to train people to read the instructions on the machinery. 
If I remember correctly,  Sir Robert  Menzies said on more Ulan one occasion that as far as he understood, scholarships should be awarded only to people who had particular qualifications and that the only people who should get scholarships were those who had in fact qualified for a sort of a prize. Certainly one thing on which the Australian Labor Party is quite clear is that all persons who are capable of benefiting from tertiary education should receive it. We shaM be able to arrive more easily at sensible conclusions about the purpose of education if the committees, such as those suggested in paragraph 2 of this amendment, are appointed. 
Paragraph b (ii) refers to inequalities of educational opportunities. Even if education to the tertiary level is made available to all persons - and it certainly is not in Australia - there still can be serious inequalities in educational opportunities depending upon the circumstances of the parents and the background in which the students have been raised. Recently in Sweden, where there has now been 35 years of Labor government and great advances have been made towards equalities of income and opportunity, the Swedish Minister for Education proposed that there should be a 10 per cent loading in examination marks for the qualification to enter universities given in favour of those young people who come from underprivileged homes. 
The argument which has been used in these cases is that such matters as intelligence, which can be measured by any form of testing, are to a very large extent derived from the background in which a person has grown up. Someone who comes from a background of literate parents, where there is an interest in learning and where time, opportunity and encouragement are given to engage in more serious activities, is given a very considerable start and this in fact can be identified by any intelligence quotient test, even though physically there is no means of detecting any superiority of one person over another. That has been found in particular in the United 
States of America where for a long time those people who were in favour of the subjugation of the black population argued that IQ tests in a number of schools showed that Negro children had a lower IQ than that of white children. 
I thank  Senator Georges.  I wish to continue only very briefly. I do not wish to detain the Committee on this matter at any great length. I do not think there is any psychologist or reputable educationist in the United States who now would not agree that the difference in the IQs of young white people and young black people is due to the opportunities of young white people, which, in the majority of cases, were superior to those available to young black people and that with the spread of education among the black youth of the United States there has been a steady drawing closer of the IQs of both groups. 
Paragraph (c) of the motion refers to the establishment of commissions to investigate and make recommendations on the 3 major branches of education. The first concerns pre-school education - kindergarten and other forms of education which are given to very young children. This is a service which in the whole is grossly inadequate in this country. The second commission is to deal with primary and secondary education. This commission is to deal with the needs of primary and secondary schools in all systems of education throughout Australia. The third is to deal with tertiary education and in that field the Opposition envisages, as is expressed in this motion, the incorporation of all tertiary institutions including colleges of advanced education, teachers' training colleges and universities into one system. In this latter I believe that we have the support of a very considerable body of people interested in tertiary education. 
This support has been indicated by such diverse bodies as the Victorian Government which is proposing that degrees should be awarded to graduates of colleges of advanced education in addition to those which are awarded by universities. Whatever the merits of the proposal it does show an inclination towards the coordination of tertiary institutions such as colleges of advanced education and universities, in particular by the National Union of Australian University Students which recently changed both its name and its constitution to include amongst its members not only students at universities but also students at institutes of technology and colleges of advanced education. In addition to these commissions we advocate that there should be another commission of inquiry to co-ordinate all levels of education. Clearly if there is to be sensible education activity in the field of preschool, primary and secondary schools and the universities and other tertiary institutions there seems to be a need for some overall plan to co-ordinate all 3. They are all, in any event, inter-dependent, and in a society in which it is hoped that the highest education which is available to anyone will be available to every citizen who is capable of taking advantage of such education it is necessary that all these forms of education be co-ordinated. For this reason the commission which is referred to in paragraph (c) (iv) is included in the motion which I have moved. T commend the motion to the Senate. 
 The other proposed amendments of which I had given notice were consequent upon the amendments which have been rejected by the Committee. Consequently I shall not be proceeding with the other amendments. 
Amendments - by leave - withdrawn. 
Clause agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill - by leave - taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
 I move: 
At the end of motion add: ', but the Senate is of opinion that the Australian Advisory Committee on Research and Development in Education should be a statutory body reporting its principles, actions and recommendationsannually to Parliament.' 
The Opposition does not wish to prevent the passage of this Bill as it stands because at least it involves an advance, a small advance, whereby there is recognition of the need for overall research into the problems of advanced education to be undertaken by the Government. This accords, if only in very small part, with the principles put forward by the Opposition in the amendments which were moved yesterday in this Parliament to the estimates of the Department of Education and Science. However, if one compares the Bill which is now before the Senate and which has been passed in another place with the second reading speech of the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  and that of the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright),  representing him in this chamber, one finds what is quite a significant gap. 
In the Minister's second reading speech considerable reference is made to the establishment of a body to be known as the Australian Advisory Commitee on Research and Development in Education. The purpose of the Commitee, as set out in the Minister's spech, is to receive submissions from various persons who are interested in research into higher education and to make recommendations on the submissions of persons who are concerned with such research that they should receive grants to assist them with such research, and generally to advise the Minister on what research projects should be undertaken by those persons qualified to engage in research into higher education. Insofar as it goes, this is indeed admirable.It is desirable that there should be a co-ordinated approach by the Commonwealth to the problems of education and there can only be this co-ordinated approach in any form of intelligent manner if there is coordination of research because the purpose of research into education, as is the purpose of research into any other field of activity, is to ascertain facts. Without the ascertainment of the relevant facts in the matter of advanced education, it is impossible to lay down any guidelines or take any consistent action directed towards the future development of advanced education. 
 In the second reading speech quite con siderable mention is made of the Committee and the Minister for Education and Science has undertaken that the Committee will make recommendations to the Minister and the Minister may accept or reject these recommendations. No doubt the Parliament will subsequently be informed of what the Minister has done. I do not believe, and I do not think the Opposition believes, that there is anything wrong with this. It is clear that a committee of this nature would have to act on an advisory basis and it would certainly be wrong if the conduct of the nation's affairs, whether in education or any other matter, were to be taken out of the hands of the elected representatives of the people and handed over to a committee, however responsible, however erudite and conscientious the members of the committee may be. A very grave weakness in this Bill is that there is no reference whatsoever to the existence of the Committee. The Committee itself will have no statutory authority under the provisions of this Bill. 
The Opposition, while conceding that the ultimate lines of policy should be in the hands of the Government and particularly the Minister for Education and Science, believes that this Committee, which clearly will play a very important role in determining what sort of research is to be undertaken into advanced education, should be constituted by statute. It should be the type of committee which regularly presents reports to Parliament on the nature of its activities. It may well be that there will be a substantial divergence of approach and of opinion on matters in general and/or particular matters, between the Committee and the Minister. I do not think it follows from this by any means that the Minister would be wrong to disagree with the Committee but at the same time if a committee of this nature is giving advice to the Minister, the Parliament and the people of Australia are entitled to know precisely what is being recommended to the Minister, why the Committee is making certain recommendations to the Minister and why the Minister rejects if he does, the recommendations of the Committee. 
Despite what was said by the Minister in his second reading speech there is, as I understand it, no need to constitute such a committee at all. The Minister could merely go around and have a chat with a few people whom he happens to know are interested in education and after having a talk with them he could make up his mind to do something which one or other or all suggested he ought to do or not do something which one or other or all suggested he ought not do. Despite the very much vaunted advance in the establishment of this Committee and the undoubted distinction of the members of the Committee, as far as the Parliament is concerned we are completely in the dark as to what this Committee will do. The amendment which I have moved states precisely what the Opposition thinks should be done. The Australian Advisory Committee on Research and Development in Education should be a statutory body. It should be constituted by an Act of Parliament. 
This Committee, having certain principles which guide its deliberations, will presumably have some consistency in its actions and these should be reported regularly to the Parliament so that we may have the benefit of knowing what these outstandingly qualified persons believe ought to be done in the field of advanced education. Furthermore, we believe that the recommendations which are made by the Committee should be reported to the Parliament. It may well be that if the Minister does reject certain recommendations made by the Committee the Opposition would agree that the Minister ought to reject them. But on a matter which is arousing such controversy and such interest amongst the Australian people and something which is of such tremendous importance to the Australian people as the future of advanced education, it is the view of the Opposition that the body which deliberates on these matters should have a standing beyond the rather ephemeral standing which is given to it in the terms of the Minister's second reading speech. We believe it should be established by statute and that there should be regular reports to Parliament on its principles, actions and recommendations. I commend the amendment to the Senate. 
Sitting suspended from  1  to  2.15  p.m. 
This Bill is  to  amend the principal Act which was passed in 1967. It established the Canberra College of Advanced Education and although the provisions of the Bill which is now before the Senate are not in themselves very wide they are of some significance when consid  ered  in conjunction with  the  second reading speech made by the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bo wen).  In his speech the Minister has given some indication that the proposed development of the Canberra College of Advanced Education will lead to the establishment of a degree-conferring institution in Canberra. It may well lead to the establishment of a university of Canberra - a separate university for undergraduate studies  and  not part of the Australian National University. It may well lead to the establishment of other tertiary educational bodies in the Australian Capital Territory, such as a teachers' training college. Also there has been some discussion by the Minister of a national co-ordinating body to make provision for the qualifications awarded by and the requirements of similar colleges of advanced education throughout Australia. For this reason the Canberra College of Advanced Education Act can become something of a model of what it is anticipated will happen in Australia as regards the Commonwealth's attitude to colleges of advanced education. 
The Australian Labor Party will not oppose the second reading ofthe Bill, but, as has been indicated in the notice which I have given, I shall move some amendments during the Committee stages to several clauses of the Bill. The purpose of these amendments will be to give to the Council of the Canberra College of Advanced Education the same sort of status as is at present given to the Council of the Australian National University by allowing for representation of both Houses of the national Parliament, on the governing body of the College: to make provision for the representation of the citizens of Canberra, by election, on the Council of the College; and also to make some minor provisions relating to the prescribing of regulations by the Governor-General. 
At this stage 1 do not intend to speak at any length on the Bill. I merely indicate that the Opposition believes that the future of the Canberra College of Advanced Education is of extreme importance to the educational system of Australia. The establishment of colleges of advanced education has been quite a radical departure in the field of tertiary education from what Australia and, indeed, most countries have been used to in the past where one has either had universities or what were loosely known as technical schools or technical colleges which were, generally speaking, of a much lower standard than universities. The concept of a college of advanced education which has a status somewhat similar to, although not quite identical with, a university is new and, in many respects, it is a great advance. We believe that anything which is done in Canberra with regard to the Canberra College of Advanced Education is of importance because, although the colleges of advanced education in the Slates will be under the control of the State parliaments, there can be no doubt that what is done in the national capital could well serve as a model and guideline for development within the States. It is for this reason that we regard the Bill as of considerable importance and we have given much consideration to the amendments which it is proposed will be moved in the Committee stages. 
 I move: 
In proposed section 8, sub-section (1.), before paragraph (a) insert lhe following paragraphs: (aa) two Senators elected by the Senate; (ab) two members of the House of Representatives elected by that House;'. 
I listened with attention to what the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  said in his reply to the debate on the second reading. Although it may well be agreed that there is some difference in function between the Canberra College of Advanced Education and the Australian National University insofar as the Canberra College of Advanced Education presumably is meant to deal specifically with the Australian Capital Territory whereas the Australian National University does have a national status, I do not think that this is a complete answer to the arguments which could be put forward on the amendment that I have just moved. What the Minister said is correct in respect of the Institute of Advanced Studies at the Australian 
National University. That certainly has the role of fulfilling a need for advanced research and advanced scholarship for the whole of the Commonwealth of Australia. ButI think it could be said that the function of the School of General Studies within the Australian National University is no different to that of the undergraduate schools of study in any of the universities in the States. One council governs the entire Australian National University and at present there are representatives of both Houses of Parliament on the Council of the Australian National University deliberating on those matters which refer solely to the undergraduate students within the School of General Studies, very many of whom, and probably a majority, are residents of the Australian Capital Territory. In any event it is the view of the Opposition that as the Canberra College of Advanced Education is an institute of higher learning conducted by the national Government and constituted by Act of the national Parliament there should be some representation of this Parliament on the governing body of the college. That is why I have moved the amendment which I have outlined. 
I move: 
In proposed section 8, sub-section (1.), after paragraph (b) insert the following paragraph: (ba) three representatives of the community of the Australian Capital Territory elected in a manner to be prescribed; 
Clause 5 provides that section 8 of the Act shall be amended so that the Council of the College shall consist of the Principal, the Vice-Chancellor, 3 members of the teaching staff, 2 students of the college elected by the students of the college, persons not exceeding 8 in number appointed by the Governor-General, persons not exceeding 4 in number appointed by the Council and, if a person other than a person who is already a member of the Council is appointed, in accordance with section 13 of the Act, to be the  Chairman  of the Council, the person so appointed. The Opposition's amendment is a very modest one. On a Council of quite substantial numbers it is our proposal that there be some representation - I do not think one could say over large representation - of the citizens of the Australian Capital Territory. 
It is our view that education is part of a total process which involves the whole community in which that education is taking place. The members of the community at large, whether or not they are versed in the sciences or the arts of education, are entitled to have a substantial voice in the education which is being given by the institutions which are controlled by their government in the city in which they live. 
There is a large number of persons provided for in clause 5 of the Bill to be appointed to theCouncil. In fact there are persons not exceeding 8 in number appointed by the Governor-General without any requirement as to qualifications or experience being imposed on these 8 persons whom the Governor-General may appoint to the Council of the College. It is our view that even if, as it may happen, some or all of those persons whom the Governor-General appoints may be residents of the Australian Capital Territory, for the people of Canberra to feel that they are really participating in the life and the development of this College the people of Canberra are entitled to be represented upon the Council of the College by persons elected by the citizens of the Australian Capital Territory. There must be democratic participation in every form of government, and particularly in a field such as education. It is our view that a great wrong will be done to the people of this Territory if they do not have such direct representation on the Council of their College. For that reason I move the proposed amendment to the clause now before the Committee. 
This Bill deals with grants that are being made by the Commonwealth to various institutions of tertiary education in Australia. The Opposition does not intend to oppose it. Clearly, it would be foolish for us to oppose a Bill that provides for additional grants to be made to the impoverished tertiary education institutions of Australia. However, the Australian Labor Party is of the opinion that introducing this piecemeal legislation, which periodically comes before the Parliament to provide a grant to one institution or a grant to another institution, is not the proper way of dealing with the problems of Australian education, whether it be tertiary education or primary, secondary or pre-school education. For that reason the Opposition last night in the debate on the estimates presented certain propositions to the Parliament. lt is our opinion - an opinion reinforced by the fact that the standards of education at all levels in Australia are at present in a most deplorable situation - that countries which only 2 or 3 decades ago were well behind Australia as far as the level of education is concerned are now well in advance of Australia. I refer to countries like Yugoslavia, for example, which some 20 or 30 years ago would have been a long way behind Australia not only in the number of university students and graduates but in the number of primary and secondary school students. Even on the question of literacy it was well behind Australia. Now it is so far ahead of Australia in this field of education that this is one of the major obstacles to us getting migrants from there to come to Australia. The parents of children who may be attending school at some time in the future are reluctant to leave their home country, even though economically it may be much poorer than Australia because they are aware of the hardships they will have to endure if they are to give their children the sort of education which is available to them in their homeland. We find now that countries such as Albania, which until some 20 years ago did not have a university, now has a higher percentage of university students in its population than there is in Australia. lt would be impossible almost to talk about a brain drain from Australia because there is practically nobody to drain. We are so far behind foreign countries in the number of people graduating, not only in the humanities but in the various applied sciences, that we are finding it necessary in many fields, including the academic staffs in our universities, to import instructors from overseas universities. 
The Opposition has made its position clear on the matter of education. The Leader of the Parliamentary Labor Party,  Mr Whitlam,  is making our policy perfectly clear in the current Senate election campaign. There is no doubt in our minds that the people of Australia will be endorsing the policy put forward by him. One of the reasons for their acceptance is their growing awareness of the inadequacies of the Australian education system. At the present time it is so inadequate that shortly 19,000 school teachers in New South Wales will go on strike, lt is a system which in no sense can be regarded as being adequate for the Australian people. We are losing teachers to Canada and we are not attracting people to enter the teaching profession. Our percentages of university trainees and university graduates are well behind those of other countries. 
There is one particular matter within the Bill to which I wish to make specific reference. It is the proposal contained in the fourth part of the Bill relating to a grant by the Commonwealth of $200,000 to the Western Australian School of Mines at Kalgoorlie to assist in the establishment of a residential college at that School. The Opposition welcomes the fact that this grant is being made. It has long been a problem for students of mining at the Kalgoorlie School of Mines to find satisfactory accommodation. This grant certainly will be of some assistance to them to enable them to pursue their studies at the School. The School has a very high reputation among those concerned with mining. This institution has done a great deal for Western Australia. 
While speaking on this subject I want to make a suggestion. My suggestion does not reflect a policy decision of the Australian Labor Party but 1 put it to the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright),  who represents the Minister for Education  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  as a subject for consideration. My suggestion is that in due course the Kalgoorlie School of Mines should be adapted in such a way as to lead it to becoming a university college, if not a university in its own right. Despite the present fluctuating fortunes of the gold mining industry it does seem that in the long run Kalgoorlie will have a reasonable bright future as the centre of other mining industries, such as nickel mining. Presumably there will be quite a substantial population living in the eastern gold fields area of Western Australia in and around Kalgoorlie. It is the largest centre of population outside the metropolitan area of Perth and Fremantle. In my view it could well warrant the establishment of a university college. There would no doubt be a great deal of benefit for the education of people engaged in mining in Western Australia if the Kalgoorlie School of Mines were able to award university degrees. 
There are other quite noted universities which have developed out of schools of mines. For instance, in the United States of America the Colorado School of Mines which began purely as a school of mines is a university which teaches a vast variety of subjects other than those strictly related to mining. The University of Witwatersrand in Johannesburg was at one stage the Johannesburg School of Mines. It has developed into the largest English language university in the Republic of South Africa. On the basis of the existing Kalgoorlie School of Mines it seems to me - this certainly is the view of a great many Western Australians - that consideration should be given to developing it into a university college or into a separate university with other faculties available so that the people living in the gold fields and in areas closer to them than they are to Perth would be able to receive the benefits of a better tertiary education than is presently available to them. The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. 
This Bill is a fairly simple one. 
There seems to be some conjecture as to whether, because this is a simple measure, it is appropriate for the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  to introduce it or for me to speak to it on behalf of the Opposition. In any event I repeat, whatever the explanation may be for the participation of others in this drama, that it is a simple Bill which provides for grants to the States by the Commonwealth. 

 - Senator Gair has just repeated the joke which everybody else has already uttered twice. This Bill provides for additional payments to the States in order to provide for increased salaries for academic staff at universities as a result of the recommendations made by  Mr Justice  Eggleston. The Australian Labor Party supports the proposal and consequently does not oppose the Bill. However, if I may say a few words on the subject - I think this is the view of the Australian Labor Party, and it is certainly not an argument for not raising or for reducing university academic salaries - it becomes rather distressing when one compares the levels of salaries paid to teachers at tertiary institutions such as universities with the level of salaries paid to teachers at secondary schools and primary schools. As I have said already, this is certainly no argument for not having adequate competitive salaries at Australian universities, but it does show in a very sharp relief the appalling salaries and conditions under which teachers in our secondary and primary schools system have to work, a system without which it would be impossible to retain any tertiary education. 
The Opposition, like the Government, feels generous towards the members of academic staffs. In fact, we allow a senior lecturer a salary of $10,500 a year, which is $1,000 in excess of the salary paid to a member of the national Parliament. I think it is encouraging to all of us, when we receive a questionnaire from a lecturer in political science at some university asking what prompted us to go into politics, to know that the question should be well drafted because the person who has come around to see us is being paid $1,000 a year more than we are to find out why we are here. If I may digress, only recently I received from a gentleman who undoubtedly is receiving this salary a questionnaire in which he asked me to explain my presence in this place. He wanted to know whether I had come here because I had been asked to do so by a friend or whether it was in response to an advertisement. The only answer that immediately occurred to me was that I was here because of popular demand. 
Of course, that is one answer. As  Senator Cavanagh  has suggested, if we were to write articles about ourselves we would be paid at least $1,000 a year more than we are getting now for doing the things about which the articles are written. This, of course, is only a minor aspect. On the whole the politics departments comprise only a small section of the entire university work force, if that is how one describes it. It is certainly appropriate that salaries should be commensurate with those in comparable institutions in other parts of the world. The Australian Labor Party believes that  Mr Justice  Eggleston's reports obviously would he soundly based, well considered and wise. The Government which has never been noted in the past for being unduly generous, clearly must also have been compelled by  Mr Justice  Eggleston's arguments, otherwise it would not have introduced this Bill. For that reason, the Opposition can see no reason for opposing the measure now before us. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. Who instructed Commonwealth police officers to come to my home in Perth during the Christmas holiday week to ask questions about an advertisement relating to the National Service Act which hud appeared in the 'Australian'? What was .the purpose of the visit? Does the Attorney-General or the Commonwealth police intend to take any further action? if so, what action will be taken? 
I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General whether he can inform the Senate of the stage that has been reached in the investigations of the Administrative Review Committee. When is it likely that the report will be available? 
The motion moved by  Senator Turnbull  is admirable. It says that H is in the best interests of Australia immediately to recognise the People's Republic of China and I believe that the debate should be conducted on that basis.  Senator Turnbull  does not say that it is in .the best interests of China that we should recognise China but that it is in the best interests of Australia. I believe it is incontrovertible that it is in the best interests of Australia to accord recognition to the effective Government of China, which is in Peking. Considerable harm is being done to Australia and will continue to be done if we do -not recognise that Government.  . Recognition does not. imply support -or approval or any particular, view of the nature of the government which is being recognised. Recognition of- a country and ils government is merely an acknowledgement of reality. If we say that we recognise that the Government of China is in- Peking we are doing no more -.hari acknowledging the reality of. the situation in China. The Government of .' China is in Peking. The laws of China are made by that Government and all authority within China is exercised by it.  Senator Buttfield  has said that it is. not. claimed by the Australian Government that the Government in Formosa- led by the octogenarian immigrant from mainland China - is. the Government of the whole of China, but it is in effect the present policy of the Australian Government. By continuing to insist that the seat occupied by China in the United Nations be occupied by representatives of the Taiwan regime, and that the permanent seat on the Security Council of the United Nations be occupied by representatives of the Taiwan regime, the Australian Government is recognising the claim made by Chiang Kai-shek and his elderly supporters in Taipei that he is the government of the whole of China. 
It is not an indication of an opinion one might hold about China that one recognises the Peking Government as the effective government of that country. Among the nations which recognise the Peking Government are a great many countries whose policies bear little resemblance to the policies of China. In fact, in many instances they are very antagonistic to the policies of China. Among the countries recognising the Peking Government arc Denmark, a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation; France, a member of 
NATO; Finland, a neutral European country; Israel, a country very strongly aligned with the West; the Netherlands, a member of NATO; Norway, a member of NATO; Sweden and Switzerland, both independent and - neutral European countries; Italy, a member of NATO; and Canada, another member of NATO. 
We have heard a great deal in recent days about the value of the Commonwealth of Nations. Among the Commonwealth countries which recognise the Peking Government, the government of the People's Republic of China, are Canada, Ceylon, ' Ghana, India, Kenya, Mauritius, Nigeria, Pakistan,- Tanzania, the United Kingdom and Zambia. All those countries are. important members of the Commonwealth pf .Nations. Most of them have, very little political or ideological affinity with the Government of China but they accord it recognition. '  
I -want to. refer to some of the statements made about China. It has been said that it should not be recognised or admitted to the United Nations - the United Nations is not mentioned in  Senator Turnbull's   motion - because of its deplorable international conduct and its intervention in the affairs of other countries. I find it extraordinary that the Government which at present conscripts young Australians to fight in Vietnam in a war that is no business whatsoever of the Australian people and which engages in the butchery in Vietnam, has the audacity to say that China does not live up to our high standards. I believe that after our association as abettors, sycophants and hangers on with the Americans at My Lai we are' in no position to reflect on the foreign policy of any other country in the world. 
What are the allegations made against China? The Chinese Government subscribes to a theory of political revolution. It has never denied that. It says that it is in favour of world revolution taking place according to certain principles to which the Chinese Communist Party subscribes; but it has also said that it is opposed to interference in the domestic affairs of any other country. I believe that the history of China and the present Chinese Government shows that it has lived up to what it has said. Can any honourable senator name a country in which the present Chinese Government has intervened or to which it has sent troops? 
Yes. I have also heard of  Senator Hannan  and I know of his delusions, so I will not dwell on them. The only countries into which China has sent its forces are India, and North Korea when it was invited to do so by the Governments of those countries. China issued a clear warning to the United States that if American forces crossed the Yalu River and thus threatened China it would send its forces to North Korea, and it did so. That was a very mild reaction compared to that of the United States in such countries as Cuba in which there were no foreign forces at all. Cuba has no border with the United States, yet the United States has said that it is entitled to decide the type of Government for Cuba. It was only after very clear specifications which had been drawn up by the Chinese Government were breached that its troops were sent into North Korea, and they were sent then at the request and with the encouragement of the North Korean Government. Chinese troops have been involved in Tibet. It is very difficult to judge what has happened in Tibet. I would not want to rely too greatly on newspaper reports because if their reports on Tibet are as accurate as their reports on Canberra I would not put great trust in them. In any event, whatever may have happened in Tibet the fact is that the Taiwan Government of Chiang Kai-shek makes precisely the same claims to Tibet as does the government in Peking. For many years the western powers had recognised China's claim that Tibet is a province of China, Whatever the present government in Peking has done in Tibet is no different to what preceding Chinese governments have done and what the government of Chiang Kai-shek himself would do if he were in power. 
The other occasion when Chinese forces have been outside China was when they were in India as a result of the complex dispute about the McMahon Line. Again, the territorial claims which were made by the Peking government are no different from the claims made by the government in Taipei. The position of Chiang Kai-shek on the McMahon Line is precisely the same as the position of the government in Peking. There is no difference whatsoever. 
There is just as much difference between the Formosa government, which we recognise, and India over the question of the McMahon Line as there is between the Peking government and India. In the past year there has been considerable research by scholars into what took place in the armed dispute between China and India several years ago concerning the north eastern frontier of India. I would say that the balance of opinion amongst scholars is that in these circumstances the bulk of legal argument rests in favour of the Chinese and not in favour of the Indians. Whatever may be said about that situation, whoever was right or wrong on the issue, if China is an aggressive nation - which it is alleged to be - one can only wonder why it was content with merely occupying the limited areas which it claimed during the dispute. After routing the Indian Army why did it not go on and take the whole of India or as much of India as it wanted to occupy? It was in the position where it had completely flattened the Indian army and it could have taken as much of India as it felt like taking. All it took were those areas which were in dispute, areas which had been recognised by governments of the United Kingdom in the 19th century as being part of China. 
The policy of the present Australian Government on the recognition of China is not based on any realities of the situation. The Australian Government knows that when it wants to sell wheat, wool or rolled steel to China it is not going to see anybody in Taipei. The Australian Government knows very well where China is. Sometimes the Government will call it Communist China. When Government supporters are at the South Kew Liberal Party Women's Branch they will refer to China as Communist China or possibly Red China. When they are talking about wheat or wool they will call it mainland China. Now, with a touch of the French, it has become continental China. But whatever it is called the Government knows precisely where China is. China is a place which appears on the map. If we want to sell our wheat or wool we will go to Peking to sell it. We will not waste time trying to sell it in Formosa. The reason for continuing to recognise the comical government in Taipei is that the Government has believed that there has been some political mileage in doing this. The Government has been able to say that if we want to recognise the Chinese government we are advocating that the Red Guards should run amok in the streets of Toorak. This is the only reason the Government has had for refusing to recognise the government of China. The reason has been directed exclusively to the Australian domestic market, to little old ladies in white tennis shoes who become terrified whenever maps are prepared showing red arrows directed towards St Kilda beach from Cuba, Peking and the Congo which is the place which terrifies  Senator Hannan  so much. All these arrows are aimed at St Kilda beach as part of a vast international conspiracy. This has been quite a well-established pattern of reactionary governments. 
It was not until November 1933 that the United States under the late President Roosevelt recognised the Government of the Soviet Union as being the Government of the Soviet Union. Stalwart professional patriots like his Republican predecessors Harding. Coolidge and Hoover had hung on to office by the same sort of red terror fears which the present Australian Government has been arousing for the past few years and is finding rather difficult to whip up at the present time. The foreign policy of the United States in the 1920s was part and parcel of the same mentality which led to the Palmer raids and the red scares in that period inside the United States. The reason why the United States Government refused to recognise the Government of the Soviet Union as being the Government of Russia was not that it did not realise it was the Government but that it wanted to use the fear of Communism for domestic consumption to frighten people into voting for it when polling day came around. This is precisely what the present Australian Government is doing. We are in an absurd situation where we find that at the present time countries in Asia which it has been claimed have suffered so terribly from the menace of Communist China, recognise China. India is one such country. Pakistan, Ceylon and Indonesia have recognised and have diplomatic relations with China as have Afghanistan and Nepal, whose esteemed ruler will be visiting us tomorrow. No doubt he could be asked the policy of his Government. I am sure that nobody would regard His Majesty the 
King of Nepal as being in any way a Red yet he recognises the government in Peking as being the government of China and his country is proud to send ambassadors to represent him in Peking and receive ambassadors from Peking in his capital. 
We are precluded from taking part in discussions concerning our interests in South East Asia which could lead to peace in this area in which we are vitally concerned because we refuse to talk and negotiate with China. It is not China which is suffering because of this. China constitutes one-quarter of the world's population. It is a mighty power which is growing increasingly stronger. Australia is the country which is suffering by behaving in this peurile manner and refusing to recognise the reality which is no doubt unpalatable to some. For that reason I commend to the Senate the resolution moved by  Senator Turnbull  that it is in the best interests of Australia that we should immediately recognise the People's Republic of China. 
 This Bill is part of a campaign carried on by the Government and its supporters over the past year under the slogan of law and order. Like so many acts of this Government, its action in introducing this Bill, as has been its whole behaviour in running a campaign on the question of law and order, has indicated a desire to imitate the less desirable features of life in the contemporary United States of America. It may be remembered that during 1970  Mr Spiro  Agnew, the Vice-President of the United States, and  Mr Reagan,  the Republican Governor of California, entered into an intensive campaign of law and order directed against the civil rights movement and against those people who were demonstrating in the streets against the continuation of the war in Vietnam. It was promised by Agnew and Reagan, at the behest of the  President  of the United States, that they would carry on this campaign in the congressional elections to be held in the 
United States of America at the end of last year. 
Vice-President Agnew was the star performer in the campaign for law and order and he campaigned very vigorously against people such as Adlai Stevenson III, a former Marine Corps officer who was the Democratic Party candidate for United States senator from the State of Illinois; against  Mr Tunney,  the Democratic Party candidate for the Senate in California; and against many other eminent Americans who have been opposed to the Vietnam war and who have supported the civil rights movement in the United States. The result of the law and order campaign in the United States was a repudiation of the policies which have become identified' with the name of Vice-President Agnew, to such an extent that the Republican Party analysts have now concluded that, in those States where Agnew went with his law and order campaign, far from benefiting his own party he benefited the Democratic Party, so that even in the conservative State of Illinois the seat which had been held by the former Republican leader in the Senate,  Senator Dirksen,  was won by a liberal Democrat, the son of the former Democratic Party Presidential candidate Adlai Stevenson. It is as a result of this that  Mr Agnew  is now under some cloud and may not be the next Vice-Presidential candidate of the Republican Party. 
We saw. that simultaneously with this, as is their wont, the Liberal Party in Australia decided to imitate the more extreme right wing elements of the American Republican Party.  Mr Askin,  the Premier of New South .Wales, said that they were going to run elections in that State on the question of law and order.. In fact they fought a by-election in the State seat. of George's River on that very issue. We all know what happened there. Law and order was sunk in George's River and we have not heard much about law and order from the New South Wales Government since then. This is the Government which about a year ago wanted .to fight an election on this issue. But still we have this Bill floating around. There are still . some ghosts haunting us from the law and order days of the Government, and one of them is this Public Order (Protection of Persons and Property) Bill which is before us now. 
It  is remarkable how like minds think alike. Sometimes one can only wonder at the strange telepathy which seems to exist between members of this Government and their friends and colleagues who are members of the South African Nationalist Government. It will be well remembered by many that the Suppression of Communism Act in South Africa, which has been responsible for the imprisonment and the suffering of many Democrats in that country, was based on the Communist Party Dissolution Act which was passed by the Australian Government in"  1950,  only subsequently, to be repudiated by the High Court of Australia and by the people of Australia. It is curious how similar the Bill that is before us now is to the Suppression of Communism Act, how strange mystic numbers seem to run .through the minds of people who advocate a police state. For example, in clause  4  of the Bill we find that 'assembly' is defined as meaning ah assembly of not .less than  3  persons. So  3  persons constitute an assembly, precisely as in the South African Suppression of Communism Act. Within the terms of that Act a banned person may not attend any meeting if there are  3  persons present. The syn.chronisation pf thought between the Parliament in Canberra and' '.the ' Parliament in Cape Town is remarkable. 
If this thought goes back  600  years it is much more modern than most of the legislation that the Government has introduced. We find the same sort of euphemisms used in the speech which was made in another place by the then Attorney-General, who despite his dedication to law and order has subsequently left for the back bench where no doubt he is not enjoying himself as much as he was previously. 
I  think he supported the wrong man for Prime Minister. 
As  Senator Mulvihill  points out, he is  a  good cricketer, but even his dedication to law and order did not save him when the knives were out in the Liberal Party and he is, despite his efforts in Red baiting, sitting on the back benches with some of his other Red baiting colleagues whose Red baiting efforts have been similarly rewarded. 
 I did not quite follow what that was all about, but I shall let it pass. When  Mr Hughes  was introducing this Bill in another place on 16th March this year, in his second reading speech the Bill became a quite simple measure and in fact a humane Bill. He said that it was introduced to safeguard liberties. He said that the main objects of the Bill were to clarify, to simplify and in important respects to mitigate the severity of the law concerning assemblies and persons. So far have we come from those heroic days of law and order that the Bill which was promised to jerk us into gear and to put the demonstrators out of business is no longer a Bill dedicated to keeping the demonstrators in hand; in fact, it is a Bill to mitigate the severity of the law concerning assemblies. I submit that it is such in the same way as an act to extend university education ' in South Africa was an Act  10  deprive non-whites of the right to attend the few English speaking universities they still bad a chance to attend. The same sort of euphemism is used by both repressive governments. 
In the first' fever and flare of heroism the Government intended  to  hound us all into the gutter or into gaol. But now all that we have is a Bill that is being introduced to mitigate the severity of certain penalties', lt is interesting to study the views held by  Mr Hughes  when he introduced the Bill. I do not know whether he still holds those views or whether he has had a change of mind as well as a change of occupation. Let us consider what he regarded as the essential principles, the principal considerations of the law relating to assemblies. He said: 
First:  the  public interest requires that the conduct of people assembling for a common purpose shall noi give rise to violence or to any reasonable apprehension of violence. Second: the public interest requires that people who assemble in public places for a common purpose shall conduct themselves so as not to cause unreasonable obstruction to others . . . Third: The public interest requires that lawful occupiers of land and premises should be protected from intrusions upon their peaceable occupation . . . Fourth: the public interest requires that the proprieties of international discourse should be preserved. 
No doubt all of these things should be preserved, but how different is that approach from the principles which are safeguarded in the Bill of Rights of the United States of America. It seems that this Government imitates the politics of the United States only when it wishes to be repressive and not when the opportunity exists to follow the great democratic principles enshrined in the United States Constitution. The First Amendment to the Bill of Rights states: 
Congress shall make no law . . . abridging the freedom of speech, or of the Press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances. 
The right of persons to assemble appears in the First Amendment of the, Bill of Rights, in the United States Constitution. The primacy of those rights is given to the people who wish to assemble. I have just read out the 4 propositions being the  principal considerations outlined . by the former Attorney-General. He dealt at length with the 4 principal considerations which should be taken into account in the law relating to the assembly of persons. Nowhere did he make any mention of the right of persons to assemble. He mentioned only the rights of people who may in some way be hindered or obstructed by those people who do assemble. This, if nothing else, shows- the bias of the legislation now being introduced. It. is not a Bill to safeguard liberties; it is a Bill to hinder the liberties of the citizen. Nobody could fairly deny that problems are involved in free assembly of large gatherings of persons, but under the United States Constitution the first right is the right to assemble. The subsidiary rights are those of persons who may be interfered with by the exercise of the right of assembly. The First Amendment of the Bill of Rights refers to the right of assembly and not the right of persons who may be affected by an assembly.  Senator Byrne  is trying to interject. 1 have only a short time to speak.  Senator Byrne  will have a longer time than I have. 
If the honourable senator has some difficulty I will speak to him privately later and enlighten him. One of the matters dealt with by the former Attorney-General was making comprehensible the law relating to assemblies. He said: 
If any law is to be effective in regulating human conduct in potentially discordant situations, it ought to be comprehensible not only to those to whom it is directed but to those who have the responsibility for its administration. The law ought therefore to be conveniently accessible; it ought to be expressed in clear and explicit language. 
But does this Bill achieve that aim? It does not. It does the contrary. For example, I direct the attention of honourable senators to clause 17, which states:  (1.) Where . an assembly consisting of not less than twelve persons is taking place in relation to protected premises or to a protected person and - 
persons taking part in the assembly have conducted themselves in a svay that has caused a member of a Police Force of the rank of Sergeant or above reasonably to apprehend that the assembly will be carried on in a manner involving - 
unlawful physical violence to persons or unlawful damage to property; or 
offences against section 18 or 20 of this Act; 
How imprecise is that wording. The clause does not even require that persons should be carrying on in such a way or that the onus is upon the Crown to establish that they were carrying on in that way. All that is necessary is to establish that a sergeant of police or a policeman holding a rank superior to sergeant is satisfied that such would be the case. It is anything but precise. I remind honourable senators of a much more precise piece of legislation. I refer to an ordinance of the City of Chicago relating to disorderly conduct. The ordinance provides: 
All persons who shall make, aid, countenance, or assist in making any improper noise, riot, disturbance, breach of the peace, or diversion tending to a breach of the peace, within the limits  of  the city; all persons who shall collect in bodies or crowds for unlawful purposes, or for any purpose, to the annoyance or disturbance of other persons; . . . shall be deemed guilty of disorderly conduct, . . . 
A comparison of the clause of the Bill which I have just quoted with the City of Chicago ordinance shows that the language of the ordinance is far more precise. It does not say only that a sergeant of police has to be convinced as satisfied that such is the case. The ordinance states that it shall have to be the case before action can be taken against the persons concerned. Even then what do we find? I refer to a judgment delivered in March 1969 by the United States Supreme Court in the case of Gregory v. The City of Chicago. The name Gregory should be well known to honourable senators. He has been one of the victims of the law and order programme of this Government. He was refused admission to this country as part of the great law and order campaign.  Mr Justice  Black of the United States Supreme Court referred to the language of that City of Chicago ordinance in his judgment. He said: 
The disorderly conduct ordinance under which these petitioners were charged and convicted is not, however, a narrowly drawn law- 

 Mr Justice Black said that it is . not a narrowly drawn law, but it is much more narrowly drawn than the Bill now before the Senate. He went on:   . . particularly designed to regulate certain kinds of conduct such as marching or picketing or demonstrating along the streets or highways. Nor does it regulate the times- or places or manner of carrying on such  activities. To the contrary, it might better be described as a meat axe ordinance, gathering in one comprehensive definition of an offence a number of words which have a ' multiplicity of meanings, "some of which would cover activity specifically protected by the First Amendment. 
We in Australia have no First Amendment to protect us. If that City of Chicago ordinance is a meat axe ordinance, what we have before us now is a. whole butcher's shop full of meat axes because it is much more imprecise than was the Chicago ordinance declared to be unconstitutional and contrary to the Bill of Rights by the United States Supreme Court. I have very little time left to debate this measure but I wish to make some general observations. Only recently Frank McManus, a member of Parliament, was sentenced to gaol for 6 months because of his vigorous activities on behalf of the civil' rights of the Irish people in Northern Ireland - so-called Ulster. Protests have been made in the British Parliament on behalf of Frank McManus and civil liberties because of this shameful treatment of a member of Parliament who demonstrated only to win some liberties for an oppressed section of the population of Northern Ireland. His other Independent Unity colleague in the House of Commons, Miss Bernadette Devlin, has been treated in the same manner. They have been prepared to demonstrate because they know and- realise that any substantial changes which have been made to civil liberties have been made by people who demonstrated. Magna Carta was the result of a . demonstration. It was not the result of law and order, lt was the result of a demonstration. 
We appreciate that great problems are involved in this matter but this Government which we are facing at the present time says that h is dedicated to law and order. It is dedicated1 to what it calls law and order only when law and order are used to suppress those people who object to fundamentals of its policy such as the butchery in Vietnam. We hear very little about law and order when the victims of violence are those persons who are opposed to this Government. Little did we hear about law and order from the Government when the Soviet Embassy was bombed recently. Little did we hear about law and order when the house of a senatorelect who belongs to the Australian Labor Party was bombed. We hear a great deal about somebody sitting down disgracefully in the Department of Labour and National Service and how the full majesty of the law and the police forces must be called in in order to stop these shocking activities which were used in the civil rights campaign in the United States of America supported by  President  Kennedy and  President  Johnson. Little do we hear about the acts of violence of people on the extreme right. As  Senator Mulvihill  has pointed out on many occasions, one of the leading members of the Nazi collaborator 
Ustashi movement is a senior officer of, I think, the Department of Labour and National Service. This terrorist organisation engaged in the butchery of friends of the Allies during the Second World War. 
This Government has engaged in what it hopes will be a policy of intimidation of members of the Australian Labor Party and their political opponents. During the Christmas vacation under the orders of the- then Attorney-General who was so distressed when some demonstrators came to his house', Commonwealth police officers appeared on my front doorstep early in the morning seeking to ask me questions which I refused to answer other than giving my name and address. The questions concerned an advertisement which appeared in a newspaper relating to the National Service Act. In the Senate I asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  why this was done, who, authorised it and what was going to be done about it. In reply I received a letter from  Senator Greenwood  saying that investigations were being made as to whether .there should be a prosecution. I notice he did not have the audacity to give the reply inside the Senate chamber so that it would be broadcast and be known to the public. What is the purpose of this sort of . action? What is the purpose in sending during the Christmas holidays 2 policemen to my home in Perth, knocking on the front door and demanding to ask . me questions about my political activities? What is the purpose of leaving this episode in a state of suspended animation so that no answer. is given to people, who are placed in this situation, as to whether there is going to be a prosecution and, if so, what it is going to be for? 
 It is purely intimidation. That is the only reason why it is done. It does not succeed in intimidating me and I do not believe that it succeeds in intimidating my ' colleagues. I do not doubt that a great many people are made uneasy by this action.  Senator Wright  finds it funny. He believes in sending policemen to interrogate members of the Opposition. That is typical of his attitude ever since he has been here. We get the phoney Churchillisms on occasions. 
They are somewhat illiterate Churchillisms but we can see what he is intending to imitate even if he does not succeed. But when it comes to any basic question of the liberties of the subject the first person to vacate the ranks is  Senator Wright.  The Australian Labor Party appreciates the problems which are involved in any plural society where there are people who wish to demonstrate and publicly show their opposition to laws which they regard as being unjust. The Australian Labor Party says that the primary right is the right for people to demonstrate and the right of free assembly, not the rights of those people who object to it. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
 I should first of all like to refer to the definition of assembly as it appears in clause 4 of the Bill. 
I should like to make a further contribution on those aspects first. 1 should like to deal with the definition of assembly, which is a matter that has already been raised. I think the matters that I will be mentioning follow matters which have already been mentioned by other honourable senators. I do appeal to the Minister to concede that, whatever may be said about the political or moral merits of the definition of an assembly as it appears in clause 4, it is written in appalling English. It seems to me to be a most incomprehensible clause to appear in a Bill which is meant to set out a code of conduct. The definition states:  "assembly' means an assembly of not less than- 
I am not discussing the merits of it now; I am merely talking about the wording of this part of the clause -  3 persons who are assembled for a common purpose 
That is clear -  whether or not other persons are assembled with them and whether the assembly is at a particular place or moving . . . 
I am at a loss to know what is added to the meaning of this definition by saying whether or not other persons are assembled with them'. The fact that it is an assembly of not less than 3 persons would seem to suffice as far as the definition is concerned without adding 'whether or not other persons are assembled with them'. I am completely bewildered as to what this expression seeks to add to what has already been said. As far as I can determine it is merely a waste of ink and paper because it does not affect anything very much. The definition concludes by referring to whether the assembly is at a particular place or moving and includes the conduct in connection with that common purpose of all or any of the persons in the assembly. I ask the Minister to reconsider the drafting of this definition and to improve the wording of it so that it is comprehensible to me at least. Is it meant to include the conduct of all or any of the persons in the assembly in connection with that common purpose or does it mean the conduct in connection with that common purpose of all or any of the persons in the assembly? In other words, does the phrase of all or any of the persons in the assembly' qualify the word 'conduct' or does it qualify the words 'common purpose'? It is very vague to me what this means. I think it is very important that this matter should be clarified. I am not for the moment casting any strictures on the motives of the persons who drafted the Bill, but it seems to me that, as it stands at the moment, the phrase 'of all or any of the persons in the assembly' could qualify the word 'conduct' or it could qualify the words 'common purpose'. It could give 2 totally different meanings. I ask the Minister to have a further look at this definition and to attempt to bring down some clarification so that we will at least know the aims of the definition, which at the present time I certainly do not know. 
I still do not think that I have been able to make myself sufficiently clear. I have had the same problem in making myself clear to  Senator Greenwood  as the draftsman who was responsible for this definition has had in making himself clear to me. I merely suggest to the Minister again that as far as the definition of assembly is concerned it would at least read much better and be more intelligible if, instead of the present wording, it were to say: 'includes the conduct of all or any of the persons in the assembly in connection with that common purpose'. It would make a lot more sense and not contain its present ambiguity. I do not want to dwell on that. What I want to come to is the last definition appearing in the clause which 1 think really goes to the heart of the Bill. I refer to the definition of unreasonable obstruction. In doing this I would like to refer again to the judgment of  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Black in the case of Gregory v. the City of Chicago which was heard in the Supreme Court of the United States. 
In his reply to the second reading debate yesterday  Senator Greenwood  claimed that I had quoted some of  Mr Justice  Black's observations out of context and had in fact given a false picture of the position that  Mr Justice  Black took on the matter of unlawful assembly. He then proceeded to quote some of the dicta of  Mr Justice  Black to the effect that one could not allow assemblies to be of such a type whereby people were not able to carry on their normal business and whereby churches were invaded by hordes of people wanting to have meetings while the church services were in progress and so on. I would submit that in fact if one merely looks at this aspect of  Mr Justice  Black's judgment in isolation this is taking his words out of context. If one looks at the whole of the judgment he said 2 things. He said, first of all - this is what he referred to first in his judgment - that the First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States in the Bill of Rights does guarantee freedom of assembly. Having established the principle that freedom of assembly is guaranteed under the law of the United States, the law then must look at what restrictions must be imposed upon freedom of assembly so that the undesirable consequences, such as those which were referred to in the part of  Mr Justice  Black's judgment which were quoted by the Minister could not take place. But I repeat that the essential part of his judgment was the reference to the constitutional right to freedom of assembly. It should be recollected that the judgment in the case of Gregory v. the City of Chicago was for the appellants, not for the City of Chicago. 
During the course of his judgment  Mr Justice  Black and other members of the Supreme Court of the United States, but in particular  Mr Justice  Black, used the phrase 'meat axe ordinance'. He described the ordinance of the City of Chicago in that way because it allowed the authorities a tremendous range of options which would enable them to hold that an assembly was an unlawful assembly. The point that was made in upholding the appeal in this case was that the ordinance was so vague that it was not a proper ordinance and was an undue interference with the right of freedom of assembly. The point raised by  Senator James  McClelland is one with which I agree completely and one which I believe should be fundamental to any Bill of this nature.  Senator James  McClelland has said that there is no right given within this Bill - nor is there a right in any other legislation nor, as far as I know, is there a right even in common law - for freedom of assembly. What we do have here are a series of sanctions against free assembly in the event of certain things taking place or in the event of certain persons believing that certain things may take place. 
If the ordinance of the City of Chicago relating to unlawful assemblies was a meat axe ordinance, what on earth can be said of the definition of unreasonable obstruction in the Bill? It is in these terms:   . . means an act or thing done by a person that constitutes, or contributes to, an obstruction of, or interference with, the exercise or enjoyment by other persons of their lawful rights or privileges (including rights of passage along the public streets) where, having regard to all the circumstances of the obstruction or interference, including its place, time, duration and nature, it constitutes an unreasonable obstruction or interference, and 'unreasonably obstructs' has a corresponding meaning. 
What I believe is evil about this definition is that no effort is made within the definition to say what are the circumstances which should be taken into account. 
I am perfectly serious.  Senator Greenwood  cited the example of people marching along the street and crowding around the post office so that people could not catch the train at the Elizabeth Street Railway Station and cars could not pass freely. This happens on Anzac Day and during the Moomba Festival. This happens during a very great number of officially sanctioned public demonstrations of one kind or another, demonstrations in which people show their patriotic fervour or celebrate some occasion which apparently they feel warrants some sort of celebration. 
Because these are officially sanctioned demonstrations - these are demonstrations in the same way as any other demonstration is a demonstration - or Establishment demonstrations showing dedication to our glorious dead, bidding farewell to our future glorious dead, celebrating the arrival of some religious leader or celebrating the anniversary of the Melbourne Chamber of Commerce, it apparently is regarded as being reasonable in all the circumstances that persons should be obstructed in going about their business. What I believe should be included in any Bill of this type is some statement of the sort of demonstrations allowed to be held. It is obvious that however great the obstruction will be, no-one will stop an Anzac Day parade, a St Patrick's Day parade or a Moomba parade. 
Whatever obstruction is caused, the parade will be allowed to go on. The sort of demonstration which is to be stopped is a demonstration which has not been called by the Establishment. Merely to say that it is a matter which in all the circumstances appears to be unreasonable obstruction can, 1 put to the Ministers, mean no more than an obstruction caused by a demonstration of a type which the authorities do not like. I do not see what else it can do. 
Because if there is no definition, if you are saying, for example - and I know that this is a matter largely for local authorities of some sort - that there shall be allowed only 12 demonstrations per year, or something like that, and they shall be allocated to various public bodies in accordance with their membership, or whatever it may be, it may perhaps be unreasonable to argue against the prohibition of other demonstrations. Obviously society could not function if demonstrations were taking place outside the Melbourne Post Office every day of the week. But merely to have the words 'unreasonable obstruction' without any definition of them and to say that the courts shall rely on this is, I believe, going to come back to a situation where it is going to be right in the hands of the Government, in the hands of the police force, to say which sort of demonstrations they believe are unreasonable and which are not unreasonable. 
There is no charter of rights in this Bill. There is certainly anything but a charter of rights even implied in the definition of unreasonable obstruction'. AH that is given here is the opportunity for the State to say: This is an unreasonable obstruction', and I fail to see what sort of defence anybody could have. If people were protesting about the Vietnam war, or whatever else it was, and had the same number of people in the streets as they do at the time of the Moomba Festival and they were stopping people from passing by, it could be said that this is unreasonable. The Minister himself said it would bc unreasonable if people could not get down there to catch the train or could not drive their cars over Elizabeth Street, or whatever it may be; this would make it an unreasonable obstruction. It is not regarded as an unreasonable obstruction in the case of the Moomba Festival or the Anzac Day parade if people cannot drive their cars over Elizabeth Street or Collins Street but I am sure it would be regarded as an unreasonable obstruction if in the case of the Moratorium demonstration people could not drive their cars over those intersections. 
For that reason I think there should be a much stricter definition of 'unreasonable obstruction' and it ought to be coupled with some statement of the rights of people to hold demonstrations and provide an obstruction without leaving it so loosely as an 'unreasonable obstruction'. 
As the Minister was at pains to claim that in some way I had misrepresented the judgment of  Mr Justice  Black, I would ask him whether he does not agree as a lawyer - not as a member of the Liberal Party or as a Minister - that if  Mr Justice  Black, whom he quoted with some reverence last night, was correct in finding that the ordinance of the City of Chicago relating to unlawful assemblies was a meat-axe ordinance, this definition of 'unreasonable obstruction' in this Bill is not ever so much more a meat-axe provision than the ordinance of the City of Chicago ever could be upon any construction. 
 The Opposition will be opposing this clause, which reads: 
For the purposes of this Act, but without limiting the operation of this Act - 
an assembly is in relation to protected premises if persons in the assembly are on protected premises, or are at a place in the vicinity of protected premises by reason of the fact that that place is in the vicinity of those protected premises; and 
an assembly is in relation to a protected person if persons in the assembly are at a place by reason of the fact that a protected person is present at or in the vicinity of that place. 
The Opposition's criticism of this clause relates back to clause 4 and the questions which have been raised by Opposition speakers on what constitutes an assembly and on the lack of definition of 'vicinity'. I can well understand that, within the terms of the judgment of  Mr Justice  Black which has already been referred to, certain provisions have to be made within the framework of a free society allowing free assembly to prevent certain things from taking place. For example, certain steps have to be taken to protect Parliament while it is in session and steps have to be taken to protect the operation of the courts and various other things that one does not need a very vivid imagination to picture. 
I shall be speaking only momentarily now, because 1 think most of the debate will take place after the Minister has elaborated the reasons for the inclusion of this clause in the Bill. However, what we put to the Minister is that once again this is what  Mr Justice  Black described so unfavourably in his judgment. It is a meataxe provision. It includes all sorts of people engaging in all sorts of activities at or about these protected premises, which in themselves may be peaceful and orderly but which merely need to consist of 3 or more persons in order to come within the ambit of the Bill. For that reason, at this stage I ask the Minister whether he would clarify to the Committee precisely what the Government has in mind in introducing this clause and what is the purpose of the clause other than the general purpose of preserving what has been euphemistically described as law and order. 
 Sub-clause (1.) of clause 6 of this Bill is the most appalling subclause in an appalling Bill. The purpose of this sub-clause as I understand it - I think my understanding of it would be the same as the understanding of anybody else - is that it is purely one of intimidation. It states: 
Where persons taking part in an assembly that is in a Territory or is wholly or partly on Commonwealth premises conduct themselves, in the Territory or on the Commonwealth premises, in  a  way that gives rise to a reasonable apprehension that the assembly will be carried on in a manner involving unlawful physical violence to persons or unlawful damage to property, each of those persons is guilty of an offence, punishable on conviction by a fine not exceeding Two hundred and fifty dollars or imprisonment for a term not exceeding  3  months, or both. 
This sub-clause does not say that this person needs to have taken part in an assembly which was carried on in such a manner as to cause unlawful physical violence to persons or unlawful damage to property. It refers to people conducting themselves in a way which 'gives rise to a reasonable apprehension that the assembly will be carried on' in such a manner. 
Earlier in the debate there was an interjection from  Senator Young  when the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  was speaking about this subclause.  Senator Young  then asked: 'Do you think that the damage ought to be done or the assault ought to take place before any action is taken?' That question is irrelevant to the sub-clause before us because this is not a preventive sub-clause; it is a subclause which imposes a penalty upon persons after the act. Under this sub-clause there is no need to establish before a court that any physical damage or any harm to property actually took place. All you would need to establish is that there was  a  reasonable apprehension' that such damage to property or such harm to the person would take place. If you took part in an assembly which would give rise to a reasonable apprehension, in the terms of the sub-clause, that such should take place, then you are liable to the penalty of $250 or 3 months imprisonment. 

 Senator Rae, in a most extraordinarily specious piece of reasoning which followed a long reference to Halsbury, told us that this in some way was parallel to the definition of assault under common law whereby if somebody makes threatening gestures he is guilty of assault. There is no parallel whatsoever. One cannot be convicted of assault because someone had a reasonable apprehension that someone was going to strike someone else. There has to be actual evidence given of the fact that the threatening gestures or words - whatever they were - took place in order to justify a conviction of that offence of assault. For someone to say that he had a reasonable apprehension that an assault may take place is not grounds for a conviction on the charge of common assault or any other sort of assault. 
What is so odious about this odious provision is that it says that all that is needed in order to sustain a conviction is a reasonable apprehension that such and such should have been the case - a reasonable apprehension that there should have been unlawful physical violence or unlawful damage to property. A reasonable apprehension could nonetheless be an unfounded apprehension. There is nothing inconsistent about that. One can have a reasonable apprehension that something will happen while at the same time that apprehension is unfounded. It would be reasonable if one saw smoke coming out of a house to think that it was on fire, but it may be an unfounded apprehension. The smoke might be coming from some quite different source. It might be caused by somebody burning candles inside the house or by somebody having a Christmas party. 
This sub-clause does not use the words a well founded apprehension'; it says 'a reasonable apprehension'. The Minister,  Senator Greenwood,  has said that we should not make vague allegations; that we should analyse the words. It is quite conceivable, quite possible, under the terms of sub-clause 6(1.) of this Bill that a person could be convicted if a police officer, or whoever else it is who is laying the charge, could establish that he had a reasonable apprehension that there would be physical harm caused to some person or damage to some property. As far as I can see, it would be no defence to say that even though the apprehension was reasonable it was nonetheless unfounded. The sub-clause uses the words 'a reasonable apprehension'. It does not say 'a reasonable and well founded apprehension'. 
I am in two minds as to whether we get these Bills before us in this form because of the shortage of staff and the difficulty of obtaining competent people in the Attorney-General's Department to draft them for us. or whether it is part of a deliberate policy by the Government. This sub-clause entails intimidation. How can anybody taking part in an assembly be assured that somebody is not going to have a 'reasonable apprehension' that such and such is not going to happen? How can one be confident of that? One can be determined that there will be no damage to property, that there will be no assault and- 
-Look,  Mr Chairman,  I have listened to  Senator Rae  reading the index to 'Halsbury' and that is about enough for one night. One could take every precaution in an assembly that there would be no acts of violence and that there would be no damage to any property, but how could one take a precaution that somebody would not have a reasonable apprehension that there would not be such violence or such damage to property? This is an intimidatory subclause and it is in keeping with the rest of this Bill. 
This Bill is not a serious effort to codify the law relating to assemblies. It makes a mockery of the statement by the former cricketing Attorney-General who has now left the Ministry because of his loyalty to his former leader. It makes a mockery of the statement he made in his second reading speech on this Bill in another place, that the purpose of this Bill is to mitigate penalties against persons who take part in assemblies. This sub-clause shows us precisely the purpose of this Bill. Its purpose is to intimidate people who have the audacity to demonstrate against a Government whose foreign policy and domestic policy is collapsing; a Government which cannot retain the support of its own backbenchers; a Government which has to appeal to things of this kind, to base fears, to suppression, in order to retain itself in office. 
 I do not want to spend a great deal of time on what  Senator Rae  said other than to say that I find it rather extraordinary that somebody who took us back to the first term of first year law with quotations form Halsbury at such length should have told us that the Law Council of Australia had advocated provisions similar to those in clause 6 (1.) of this Bill, without reading the recommendations of the Law Council of Australia. I have in the past looked at the minutes of the Law Council of Australia, but I cannot recollect that it at any stage recommended that clause 6(1.) of the Bill which is before the Senate was needed or anything remotely - 
I am sure that  Senator Young  is very familiar with the proceedings of the Law Council of Australia, but I doubt whether even he could produce any recommendation from it on this subject. If  Senator Young  wants to make a speech he can do so later on. I am sure that we would be all terribly bored by what he had to say. I would like to speak myself at the moment.  Senator Young  will have an opportunity later to exhibit his knowledge of the recommendations of the Law Council of Australia. I think I could properly say that his knowledge of its recommendations would be as great as his knowledge of most subjects which come before the Senate. 

 I wish to refer to the remarks of  Senator McManus  on this subject. For the second time during the course of this debate  Senator McManus  referred to the incident  that occurred when some people came into his office. I for one would not defend people who break into anybody's office. I am sure that it must have been a most distressing experience. 
 No, I am not defending it. 
I am not continually defending it. This is the second time that  Senator McManus  has told us the story about people coming into his office. I would feel somewhat more sympathetic towards his predicament than I do at the moment but for the fact that just before the dinner adjournment tonight he and his Leader,  Senator Gair,  found it a matter of great hilarity that a violent assault had been committed upon  Dr J.  F. Cairns, the honourable member for Lalor in the other place. Both of them found it highly hilarious that  Dr J.  F. Cairns should have been subjected to a violent assault which resulted in a charge of attempted murder being levelled against a person who has now absconded. I am not very impressed by the crocodile tears that  Senator McManus  has shed tonight about the intimidation of somebody in his office. This is a matter which nobody in the Australian Labor Party defends. However, along with his Leader,  Senator Gair, Senator McManus  found it to be a great joke that an attempted murder should be committed upon a member of the Australian Labor Party. Any respect which I did have for  Senator McManus,  and I did have some respect for him, no longer exists. I do not find a violent assault upon  Dr J.  F. Cairns to be a funny matter. I have never had any respect for  Senator Gair,  but I did have some respect for  Senator McManus. 
 I should like briefly to speak on this clause before further consideration of it is adjourned. I am still somewhat vague about it. Perhaps the Minister could clarify for me what happened during the drafting of this clause. Sub-section (1.) (b) refers to the assembly being carried on in a manner involving unlawful violence or damage. It goes on to refer to 'or such offences'. Could the Minister inform me whether the expression 'or such offences' applies to the unlawful violence or damage or whether it refers to the offences specified in sub-section (1.) (a). This provision seems to me to be an ambiguous piece of drafting. 
 I do not know whether the comma does quite cover it. In any event, I hope the Minister will clarify the matter for me. 
I shall wait until the Minister's adviser has finished his speech. 
I wish to direct a question to the Minister. He indicated earlier that if reasonable propositions were put to him he would be prepared to consider them. At this stage I am prepared to concede that the Government has the numbers to pass this Bill, but I did detect on the part of the Minister a certain puzzlement when he read the Riot Act and discovered the extent to which clause 8 (4.)(b) differs from that Act. I do not ask him to confirm or to deny that impression. I appreciate that the Minister is not personally responsible for the drafting of the Bill. It was drafted for him by somebody else and given to him. From a reply that the Minister gave to my interjections I understood that he was under the impression that a person would have the right to take forceful action in the dispersal of a demonstration or assembly only if a direction had already been given by a police officer. I think he would have to concede on reading clause 8 (4.)(b) that without being extravagant and saying that all sorts of alarming things will take place, there is the possibility that people will think, if they are aware of the provisions of this Bill, that they will be able to engage in acts of violence with some impunity when taking part in an assembly. 
One can imagine an assembly being conducted in the terms of clause 8(l.)(b), 'in a manner involving such unlawful violence or damage'. It may occur while the assembly is being carried on and may be in no way the responsibility of persons who have organised the assembly - the persons who, in the ordinary sense of the words, are conducting the assembly. Nonetheless, during the course of the assembly unlawful violence or damage may take place. It could then follow that another person or group of persons who oppose the purpose for which the assembly was called, without any direction having been given either by a magistrate or a police officer, believing that there was a danger of further violence taking place, use force to disperse the assembly. In any event, they need only to have seen that unlawful damage or violence was taking place and they might use force to disperse the assembly. I put it to the Minister that this is a distinct possibility and is not extravagant. Without specifying political ideologies, people who wish to disperse an assembly could take advantage of this clause. If a group during the conduct of the assembly say that unlawful violence or damage was taking place within the framework of clause 8 (4.)(b), that group would be able to use force to disperse the assembly without a police officer ever having given a direction that they should do so. 
I appreciate that remedies could be available to people who felt agrieved by the actions of those persons who had used force to disperse the assembly, but in proceedings taken against the persons who had used force it would be necessary to show that there had not been unlawful violence or damage to property in order to succeed in the proceedings. I would imagine that it would be virtually impossible to succeed if any unlawful violence or damage had taken place and that the persons who forcefully dispersed the assembly would have a perfect defence to any subsequent proceedings taken against them with regard to the use of force. 1 hope I have put the proposition reasonably to the Minister and have not been extravagant. I think, as he himself observed when he read the Riot Act, that the force could be used only after a direction had been given. I will not labour the point about whether it is a magistrate or a police officer, but under the Riot Act a direction had to be given by somebody in authority. Under clause 8 (4.)  (b)-  I think the Minister himself was surprised to realise this - this action to forcibly disperse the assembly may be taken by some private person, whatever his motives may be, who is not acting under the direction of any police officer. In fact, it is even conceivable that he may be acting contrary to the wishes of a police officer or a lawful authority. I ask  Senator Greenwood  whether he has considered this point. 
 I am rather disappointed that the Minister had to add his peroration to his reply to my question which, 1 thought, had tended to avoid raising that type of issue. I wish to put a proposition to the Minister. I feel that, having put this proposition, there is not much more that 1 at any rate could say on the matter. Would he not concede that there could be a situation where an assembly is taking place, where there has been unlawful violence or damage caused by some persons present at the assembly, where there are police officers present and the police officers believe that it is unreasonable in all the circumstances to call upon the assembly to disperse, but despite the fact that the responsible police officers present have decided that in all the circumstances they would not be warranted in calling on the assembly to disperse, because there has been violence or unlawful damage to property, a private citizen would be acting lawfully in using force to disperse that assembly although a police inspector, a police superintendent or a police commissioner present on this occasion may have felt that in all the circumstances it would have been unreasonable to disperse the assembly? Despite the opinion of the police, in those circumstances would it not be permissible for these private people, whoever they are, to use force to disperse the assembly? Would it not be lawful for them so to do? 
 I am afraid I am not satisfied by what the Minister for Health  (Senator Greenwood)  has said insofar as I can see no explanation for the inclusion of the word 'insulting' in addition to the words 'offensive' or 'threatening'. I cannot see what is added in the terms of our international obligations or our obligations to protect the -persons of the representatives of foreign powers or international agencies by using the word 'insulting' in addition to the word 'offensive'. The Minister would be well aware that what is or is not defamatory or insulting can depend upon the circumstances. There was one quite notable defamation action in Britain in which a prominent trade union official obtained damages from a newspaper which had accused him of being anti-socialist. He regarded this as insulting and defamatory, and the court held that it was insulting and defamatory in view of the position which he occupied within the British Labour Party and the trade union movement. 
It would seem to me to be a perfectly reasonable judgment that if somebody sets himself up to be something, to subscribe to a particular doctrine, and then somebody else says that he does not, that he holds another doctrine, he would regard this as being an insulting thing to say about him. I can well imagine that the persons to whom these remarks were directed would regard them as being insulting. If, for example, someone were to say that the Soviet Ambassador were a revisionist I think that he would regard this as an insulting statement to make about him. I think that the South African Ambassador may regard it as an insulting statement to make about him if it were said that he was the representative of a racist oppressive regime. He may well find that to be an insulting statement because it may well be that he does not believe that he is a racist or a supporter of an oppressive regime. It seems to me that this is one of the problems which is quite serious here and which inhibits not freedom of assembly, as has been inhibited by so many other clauses in this Bill, but freedom of speech. 
Order!  Senator Wheeldon. 
 I must confess that I am somewhat puzzled as to the purpose of this amendment. It seems to me that in any case as far as practice is concerned the Crown Solicitor or  Deputy  Crown Solicitor for a State would be instituting any proceedings, and that clearly the AttorneyGeneral of the Commonwealth is not sitting in his office 24 hours of the day looking through every prosecution of every person who is believed to have offended against some Commonwealth statute. .But  Senator Rae  has said that in any event we have not taken the authority or the responsibility for any prosecutions out of the hands of the Attorney-General because the Attorney-General is still answerable for any action which is taken by the Crown Solicitor or a  Deputy  Crown Solicitor. That is the case at present. If we leave the Bill as it is, that is what will happen. The Crown Solicitor,  Deputy  Crown Solicitor, First Assistant  Deputy  Crown Solicitor, or whatever may be his title will institute a prosecution. If somebody in the Parliament is critical, naturally the Attorney-General will be responsible. 

 Senator Rae has raised the matter of an inspector of customs for whom he said the Minister for Customs and Excise is responsible. Of course he is responsible, because the authority is not given under statute to the inspector. The responsibility is given to the Minister for Customs and Excise himself. I can imagine an appalling situation developing as far as this Parliament is concerned if this amendment is carried. For example, the  Deputy  Crown Colicitor in Perth could authorise a prosecution to be undertaken. The matter could then be raised in the Parliament, with the AttorneyGeneral being asked why it had taken place. The Attorney-General could then say: 'I had nothing to do with it. The  Deputy  Crown Solicitor in Perth has been given authority under the legislation and it is not my responsibility, it is his. I have nothing to do with it whatsoever. The statutory authority is vested in the  Deputy  Crown Solicitor under the Act.. I am merely Attorney-General.' The  Deputy  Crown Solicitor would be floating in the air like Mohammed's coffin, without any visible means of support. Proceedings could be instituted without any authority from either the Attorney-General or the Solicitor-General. We could ask nobody in this Parliament about what had happened. We could not properly criticise anybody in this Parliament, and we could not congratulate anybody in the Parliament if we wished to applaud the measures taken by the  Deputy  Crown Solicitor. 
On this side of the chamber we are very free with our congratulations when we feel they are warranted; We could. not congratulate the Attorney-General ' for the measures taken. In this instance we could congratulate the Minister for Health  (Senator Greenwood)  who represents the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  for having the audacity to submit such a Bill to the Senate. I believe that there is no advantage whatsoever in accepting the proposed amendment, lt make no substantive alteration to the Bill. In fact it takes, authority away from the Attorney-General and gives it to his employees in a manner which, so far as I am aware, is not found in any other legislation. 
I listened to some of them. Those I heard did not impress me. I am sorry that I missed the others. I am opposed to the amendment; 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Is it the case that there is no agreement between Australia and the Republic of Ireland providing for reciprocal payment of social service benefits, or a double income tax agreement between the 2 countries? As there are close associations between the people of Australia and the people of the Irish Republic, will the Government propose negotiations with the Irish Government with the objective of establishing such agreements? 
These 3 Bills are most important in their nature. They relate to States grants for the purposes of education. They are the States Grants (Pre-School Teachers Colleges) Bill, the States Grants (Technical Training) Bill and the States Grants (Universities) Bill. The Opposition does not intend to oppose any of these Bills. They were debated quite extensively in another place by my colleagues in the Labor Party and although I think an occasion of this nature could properly be used for one to express one's view on the nature of education, one's philosophy on education and one's Party's views as to how the education of this country should be conducted, because of the lateness of the hour and the fact that we are almost at the end of the sessional period I do not intend to detain the Senate at any great length in debating these matters. I will just address a few remarks to each of them. 
The first Bill to which I will refer is the States Grants (Universities) Bill 1971 because I think the issues involved in it are the simplest of the three. This is a simple technical Bill providing for additional grants to be made to the States in order to provide for the extra sums which are now required by the universities in view of the salary increases which have recently been granted to academic staff. The salaries paid to the academic staff of Australian universities may seem to some to be quite high, but when they are compared with salaries paid to people in many other walks of life in which comparable qualifications are required they are anything but excessive. The Opposition is of the opinion that it is proper that high salaries be paid to academics. It is a very unfortunate state of affairs if, for example, an academic lawyer would have available to him a substantially lower income than that which he could expect if he were out in private practice. The same may be said for an academic engineer, an academic architect or an academic scentist. It is our view that there should be highly qualified people in the universities. In fact the most highly qualified people in the professions ought to be those who are instructing others in the disciplines in which they are efficient and engaging in the free research into these disciplines within the universities. We do not oppose the Bill. We support its passage. 
The next Bill to which I wish to refer is the States Grants (Pre-School Teachers Colleges) Bill. The Opposition is of the opinion that the grants which are being made available for pre-school teachers colleges although rather meagre at least are significant in the sense that this is a major break-through in the training of pre-school teachers. In the past it has unfortunately been the case in this country that unlike a number of advanced countries pre-school teaching has been either non. existent or, where there have been pre-school institutions, they have often been little more than child-minding centres.. The Opposition is of the opinion that pre-school education is of great importance. There are 3 main branches of education, pre-school education, school education and tertiary education. It is very difficult to say that one branch is more important than another. For that reason the Australian Labor Party has as its policy the establishment of a preschools commission to consider the needs of pre-school education. Perhaps one would feel rather happier in welcoming this Bill - even though the amounts promised by way of State grants for the training of pre-school teachers are rather small - were it not for the fact that the Government before the last Senate election undertook to establish pre-school centres throughout Australia. Apparently it has now gone back on the undertaking which was given at that time. Despite the fact that we do have this Bill before us which is going to provide some small measure of training for preschool teachers, it may well be that the number of institutions in which these people, once trained, are able to practise their abilities as pre-school teachers are going to be indeed limited and, in the view of the Opposition, totally inadequate. However, I do not wish to labour this point. We believe that provision should be made by the Commonwealth for the training of pre-school teachers. We are not opposing the Bill. 
In many respects the States Grants (Technical Training) Bill 1971 is one of the most complex of Bills because it makes special provision for a particular type of tertiary education and that is the sort of technical education which is given at a tertiary level but at a non-university level. In the past it has often seemed that Australia has been sadly lacking in technical training. Frequently it has been , found in this country that when major enterprises have opened businesses here and engaged in industrial undertakings not only have they provided the capital but also at the managerial and supervisory level .they, have provided the staff. One. of the reasons for this is obviously because there have not been enough people with adequate technical training available in this country. There cannot be any doubt that one of the most important reasons for the very dramatic advances which were made in the latter part of the 19th century and the earlier part of the 20th century in Germany and in the last several decades in Japan has been the intensive, systematic technical training which is available in both those countries. The industrial pre-eminence of Germany and Japan can be largely attributed to the excellent technical training provided. It is the hope of the Australian Labor Party that Australian technical training will reach the same level. Australia has substantial resources available. 
It would be unfortunate if we were to be dependent not only upon foreign capital but also upon foreign technicians in order to make use of the resources in our country. One of the purposes of the Bill, as outlined by the Minister, is to facilitate the mobility of technically trained people so that people who have been trained in one branch of technology may be able to change to another branch of technology when the demand for their services is not felt in the industry in which they are working. This is desirable, and we support it. However, we believe that technical training should be looked at from the point of view of the overall needs of Australia and not the day to day needs of private entrepreneurs who are looking for employees to engage in some particular skilled activity. 
Only recently criticism came from one of the senior academics associated with the Wollongong University College, to the effect that the university college was being used merely as an appendage to big business, that people were receiving technical' education at the Wollongong University College merely to be trained to take up positions with certain big enterprises which require their services, and that there was not an overall plan covering Australia's requirements for engineers. 
I am sure that this is a problem, too.  Senator Byrne  has raised the fact that there are people trained to the level of doctorate who . are unable to obtain employment in Australia. I do not doubt that. -This is. a problem which I would not dispute. I think that this problem would arise in any country. There would be certain people whose inclinations would take them into a particular field of study or discipline and there would not be employment for them. This would seem to be a matter largely for high level vocational guidance. 
This is a matter on which I am not in dispute with  Senator Byrne.  I am referring really to a different matter. The type of thing I have in mind is that we should be looking forward and making an overall plan as to needs in the future for Australia - whether it be the mining industry, some special applied branch of engineering technology or whatever else it may be - rather than having some company approach a technical college or a university college and say: We will need so many technicians of a certain type'. In that case the university would be acting almost as part of a mass production process of turning out technicians for some company. I know that there are difficulties involved in this but it is my opinion and I think it is the opinion of the Australian Labor Party - I gather that  Senator Byrne  does not disagree with me on this - that what we should be looking for is an overall plan covering the long term needs for Australia so that  2  objectives will be satisfied. One of them, is that we are not unnecessarily training people who will be unable to find employment. The other objective is probably even more important than that, namely that we do not have important fields of activity for which we do not have trained people. 

 - Senator Byrne is making the point that it appears at present that there are' some fields in which we are under provided with trained Australians and others where we are over provided with trained Australians. I certainly would not disagree with that. It should be our purpose to develop a state of affairs in which we avoid both problems as far as possible. The other matter to which I wish to refer again very briefly relates to the nature of technical training. There cannot be any doubt that highly valuable purposes are served by the existence of technical colleges and institutes of technology. Here I am speaking perhaps purely privately. I believe it would be a tragedy if technical colleges were to become merely some sort of craft schools. I realise that it is not within the ambit of the Bill as it is constituted at present to deal in any detail with these matters. A problem has been found at various universities. In the faculties such as science, and particularly applied science, instructors have discovered that very frequently their students are unable to cope with the course presented to them because they are unable to express themselves adequately in English. Somebody may be quite erudite in some complex technical field but his command of English and his ability to express himself is so poor that although his research and his knowledge of the subject may be adequate, what he writes is almost incomprehensible. This is one problem which should be overcome. As well as looking for technical training we should be looking for some well rounded education. Science technology has now reached the stage where it is impossible to have what was once the Renaissance man, the man who was an authority on the arts, history and the humanities and science and technology simultaneously. 
At the same time we should be aware of the sort of problems to which attention has been drawn by people like C. P. Snow. We should guard against a situation where we have 2 cultures. We do not want to have one group of people who move in the field of liberal arts and the humanities and another moving in the field of science. Although a man is an economist he may have some knowledge of history, philosophy, law and politics but not have the slightest idea of how an internal combustion engine works, let alone how one sends a cosmonaut into space, and vice versa. We do not want to have people highly adept in various technical skills but having no knowledge of the history of their country, law, philosophy or literature. It would seem to me that one of the weaknesses of the institutes of technology quite frequently is that there is an undue emphasis on the purely technical education without at the same time there being provision for a broader and more general education in the humanities. In the same way it may be said that in many universities within the humanities and within faculties of arts totally insufficient attention is being given to important aspects of science and technology of which any reasonably educated person should have at least some general knowledge. I have nothing further to add. As has already been indicated, the Opposition is not opposing any of these Bills. I appreciate the action of the Minister in bringing the 3 Bills on together so that the time of the Senate is not prolonged in debating each Bill separately. The Opposition will not oppose any of the Bills now before the Senate. 
 The 3 Bills which the Senate is now discussing are interrelated. They all refer to changes which are being made to the laws relating to the assessment of income tax insofar as it affects overseas borrowings by Australian enterprises. These Bills, although perhaps not quite so mysterious as the matters which have been raised on the first reading by  Senator Cavanagh  would suggest, nonetheless would, to many people, be just as inexplic able. In fact there are 33 closely typewritten pages of notes which have been distributed by the Minister for Supply  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  in explanation of the matters contained in the Bills. Despite a suggestion by the  Deputy  Leader Of my Party, 1 shall not read them out with my appropriate comments at this moment. 
The purpose of these... Bills is not primarily to provide revenue for the Commonwealth, as one normally expects in legislation relating to the assessment of income tax, but rather to attract foreign investment to Australia under certain terms and conditions. In the first paragraph of the introductory notes prepared by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)and  submitted to the Senate by the Minister, this purpose is made clear. The Treasurer stated: 
The purpose of this memorandum is to explain the provisions of the 3 income tax Bills relating to interest paid to non-residents of Australia. The main purpose of the legislation is to provide 2 exemptions from withholding and other tax on interest oil certain borrowings from overseas. 
The Opposition, in the time that was available to it in the House of Representatives, has made it clear, mainly in the speeches by my colleagues the honourable member for Melbourne Ports,  Mr Crean,  and the honourable member for Adelaide,  Mr Hurford,  that it does not intend to oppose these Bills. It is my belief that these Bills are of such a nature that there should be either a full scale analytical debate with considerable time given to the Committee stages of the Bills or, alternatively, little debate at all. The Bills are of such complexity that they require either detailed treatment or no treatment at all. 
All that I intend to say in the second reading debate is that although the Opposition does not oppose the Bills they indicate the piecemeal, unplanned approach of the Government to overseas investment. We do not believe that there is anything like sufficient overall planning for the needs of future development of Australian industry. Furthermore, there is nothing like a statement of the Government's policy as to what should be Australia's approach to overseas investment. Certain hit and miss pieces of legislation such as these 3 Bills come before us from time to time. At no stage is it made clear what the Government believes our need to be at the present or in the foreseeable future and what steps it intends to take to create an overall plan, the purpose of which would be to attract the maximum of investment with, at *he same time, the minimum loss of Australian sovereignty. However, within the framework of the existing financial system the Opposition does not believe that it can oppose the 3 Bills as they are constituted. Consequently we shall not be voting against the second and third reading stages of any of these measures. 
Can I ask for further clarification from the Minister? Is the Minister in fact saying that the sums allocated to the State schools are based on what was given in the last triennium whereas the amount made available to private schools is based on their needs? Does it follow from this that needs are taken into account in assessing the allocation to be made to private schools but are not taken into account in assessing the amounts made available to State schools? 
I am referring to the Bill as a whole and in particular. to the -Schedule. Will the - Minister explain how it comes about that in Western Australia the allocation to State schools is $1,870,035 and the amount made available to non State schools is almost as., much, namely $1,773,105, while in Queensland more money' is being made available to non State schools than to State schools, $3,323,020 being made available to private schools and' only $3,072,780 ici ' State schools? Will the Minister explain, how this arises? 
 I move the following amendment: 
Leave out all words after That', insert: the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted to' increase the grant for schools conducted by a State to the same amount per pupil- as the grant for schools not conducted by a State'. 
The  DEPUTY  .  PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order! Is the amendment, seconded? 
This is a very important Bill on which a great deal of time could be spent in debate. I believe that the amendment which has been proposed by me on behalf of the Opposition is sufficiently clear not to warrant too great an extension of time on debate in this chamber in view of the late stage at which we find ourselves. The measure we have before us is a Bill to provide financial grants to the States for the purpose df giving assistance to schools by way of the provision of science laboratories for the 4 financial years from 1971 to 1975. The Opposition's amendment calls for the withdrawal of the Bill and its redrafting so that the grant for State schools shall be increased to the same amount per pupil as the grant to the non-State schools. Our amendment does not call for any reduction in the grants proposed under the Bill to the nonState schools. However, the Australian Labor Party believes that the grants which are given to State schools should be at least the same as those that are given to private schools. 
When legislation of this type was first brought before this Parliament there was provision for the money to be made available to State schools for the establishment of science laboratories as compared with non-State schools in the ratio of 3 to 1. This was approximately a fair division of the moneys because there are approximately 3 times as many students at State secondary schools as there are at private secondary schools. Grants which are proposed under this legislation are contained in the schedule to the Bill. This Bill reduces the ratio from 3 to 1 to 3 to 2. Therefore, the proportion of funds being received . for the provision of science laboratories by private schools as compared to State schools has been doubled in the years since 1963 when this proposal was first made by the Government, along with the decision to buy Fill aircraft, as part of its election gimmickry. 
If we look at the sums of money which will be made available upon the passage of this Bill, if it is passed without amendment, we find that approximately $26m will be made available to the State schools and $17m to the private schools. This is despite the fact that there are nearly 3 times as many students at State secondary schools as there are at private secondary schools. If one looks at the even more startling figures which emerge from a division of these amounts on a pro rata basis, one finds that the Commonwealth will be providing by way of assistance for the erection of science laboratories $10.58 for each State school pupil, $23.16 for each Catholic secondary school pupil and $24.08 for each pupil of non-Catholic private secondary schools. Therefore, if one were to compare a Government high school at Kalgoorlie, Collie, Newcastle or Richmond with Prince Charles old school at Timbertop one would find that each pupil at a Government school would receive $10.58 from the Commonwealth while the pupil attending the private school would receive $24.08. That is almost 2i times the amount received by the pupils of State schools. 
That is right. It was the general taxpayer who built the State high schools and the general taxpayer has an obligation to maintain the State high schools. The general taxpayer has an obligation to see that the pupils who attend State high schools are given at least the same assistance from the general taxpayers' money as are the pupils at Geelong Gram-" mar, Xavier College, Shore or any other private school that they care to attend. It is an outrageous state of affairs that State school pupils in an inadequate State system should be receiving approximately $10 compared with the $24 provided for pupils at private schools. 
If one looks at what is happening to State education throughout Australia one can only be forced to the conclusion that the policy of the present Government is for electoral purposes to maintain the Catholic educational system at a subsistence level, a non-Catholic private educational system for the purpose of training some sort of elite, and a State educational system educating - if educating is the correct word - the children of the most underprivileged elements of the community to be nothing but hewers of wood and drawers of water. This Government has a policy which will lead to a situation whereby the pupils who attend State schools will be learning no more than how to read the instructions on their employers' machinery and their call-up cards when they receive them from the Department of Labour and National Service; nothing else. If one looks at my own State of Western Australia one can see an example of the sort of policies which are being conducted by the Government towards State education. Of course State education was provided by the State.  Senator Gair  has said that as if this were some great gift - the general taxpayer provided schools and this was a remarkable achievement in Australia. Here we have taxpayers paying for schools - what a wonderful piece of progress! We say that it is not sufficient merely to be providing a few broken down buildings. 
If children at private schools need $24 a head for science laboratories, so do children at State schools need $24 a head to provide science laboratories. How can one justify the payment of $24 a head out of Commonwealth funds to pupils at Geelong Grammar and $10 a head to pupils at Richmond High School? It cannot be justified. In my own State of Western Australia is a town called Katanning. This is a town of a few thousand people in the southern wheat belt. In that town are 2 schools which give a secondary education. One is Kobeelya Church of England Girls School, which has about 120 pupils, a decrease of 20 on last year. A few hundred yards away is the Katanning High School which has about 530 pupils, which  is  an increase on last year. Kobeelya Church of England Girls School is attended mainly by the well to do children of the local farming community, lawyers, dentists and people like that. The Kobeelya Girls School with its little more than 100 pupils has a library provided by the Commonwealth. Down the street the Katanning High School, 5 times the size, does not have a library - it has a room which will seat 52 pupils at any one time. Is it to be wondered at that this is causing a reaction throughout the whole of Australia and that we find taking place protests organised by parents of children attending State schools - people who are interested in the future of State education? 
We cannot have a sound education system in Australia without a sound State education system. Whatever may be done or ought to be done for private schools must be subsidiary to what is done for State education because it is State education which sets the whole pattern for education in Australia. If we have a corroding, collapsing State education system we will have an uneducated population. Wc will have a few people who are well educated, but the bulk of our people will be uneducated. 

 - Senator Gair finds that to be rubbish. I know that his experience with schools is fairly limited. 

 - Senator Little now tells us that Queensland had the most successful schools in Australia when  Senator Gair  was Premier of that State. If  Senator Gair  is a product of that education system I think it must have been sadly lacking. 
I dp ; not want to go back to 1903, or whenever it was that  Senator Gair  attended school, because I realise that there have .been changes. However, I think that probably,, if anything, the changes have been for the worse. I know that  Senator Gair  has a hatred of State schools and does not want to see the State school system supported. That is why he supports  a  proposition by which $24 is given for each pupil of a private school. " 1 
^Perhaps that is why he hates the State school system. Under this Bill $24 is to be given for each pupil of a private school but $10 only is available for each pupil of a State school. The Australian Labor Party repudiates this. We believe that the only sound, education system is one which is based on a solid State education system. I point out to  Senator Gair  and to anybody else who is interjecting that the purpose of this amendment is not to reduce the money being made available to private schools. We do not call for a reduction in the sum to be made available to private' schools; we call for an increase in the money to be made available to State schools so that they will be receiving the same amount as the private schools. If anyone wishes to repudiate this he can do so only by saying that he is not in favour of the same Commonwealth assistance being given to State schools as is given to private schools. This amendment calls on people who say that to stand up and be counted. 
So far as science laboratories are concerned they do not get it from the Commonwealth, 
I have been speaking about this Bill all the time. If  Senator Little  had been listening he would have known that every one of the figures I cited was directed to this Bill and to the provision of laboratories. I do not intend to allow  Senator Little's  guttersnipe interjections to deter me on a matter of this nature. If  Senator Little  feels capable of talking about education I am prepared to hear him, although I suggest that the contribution that he would make would be a living argument for the inadequacy of education in Australia, as is the presence in this chamber of Senators Gair and Little. I commend the amendment to the Senate. I trust that this Bill will be sent back to be re-drafted so that justice may be done to the pupils of Australian State schools, to the parents of pupils of Australian State schools and to Australia, which is sadly lacking in any sound education system at present. 
My question is addressed to you,  Mr President.  Were members of the South African Rugby Union team allowed into this chamber and the chamber of the House of Representatives during their visit to Canberra several weeks ago? Were they allowed to take photographs in the precincts of the Senate? Is not permission to take photographs in these precincts refused to other visitors, including Australian citizens? Who granted the unusual privilege to the members of the South African Rugby Union team? Will these privileges be granted in future to other visitors to this House? 
asked the Minis ter representing the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Has the Minister seen reports in the Canberra Times of 6th and 7th May 1971 of teacher shortages in Australian Capital Territory schools and of proposed courses of action recommended by the Australian Capital Territory Secondary Teachers' Association to deal with problems of teacher shortages. 
How many secondary schools are there in the Australian Capital Territory. 
How many secondary schools have not had their full complement of teachers since the beginning of the first term of 1971. 
How many teachers have been absent for one day or more in secondary schools in the Australian Capital Territory during the months of March and April 1971. 
How many teachers have been forced to take extra classes during March and April 1971 in order to cope with either teacher shortages or teacher absences. 
How many persons are registered in the Australian Capital Territory to take relief teaching appointments on (a) a long term basis; and (b) a short term basis. 
How many teachers in Australian Capital Territory secondary schools teach subjects for which they have no specialist training. 
How many teachers in Australian Capital Territory secondary schools have resigned since the beginning of the first term of 1971. 
How many teachers in Australian Capital Territory secondary schools have indicated that they will resign at the end of the first term of 1971. 
A great many regulations and ordinances are submitted from time to time to the Regulations and Ordinances Committee for consideration. Only rarely, in comparison with the large number of matters brought before the Committee, does it present reports of the nature of the report before the Senate at the moment. I am sure that the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood),  a former member of the Committee, would be well aware that when the Committee considers these matters it does not do so on a partisan basis. Members of the Committee conscientiously try to carry out the terms of reference of the Committee and to protect the rights of Parliament so far as delegated legislation, regulations and ordinances, are concerned. 
The majority of members of the Committee felt and, speaking for myself, felt strongly, that this matter should be the subject of principal legislation and not ordinance. There can be no question that the Commonwealth Government has power under the Constitution to legislate by way of ordinance insofar as a law of evidence for the Australian Capital Territory is concerned. There is no constitutional requirement for the Commonwealth Government to submit this matter to the Houses of Parliament by way of a Bill. However, on quite a number of occasions in the past when the Commonwealth has proposed a new law or a change in law applicable to the Australian Capital Territory and when it has had in mind using precisely the same means of enactment, that is, by ordinance, the Government has decided that, because the matter was of some significance, it should be dealt with by legislation. I notice the Attorney-General looking somewhat puzzled, but 1 think he will find that this is the case. I am afraid I cannot refer to instances at the moment. It is my understanding that matters which could have been dealt with by way of ordinance for the Australian Capital Territory have been dealt with by legislation passing through both Houses of Parliament. I feel quite confident that that is the case. 
The law of evidence is one of the most fundamental branches of the law affecting the lives and liberties of citizens. The manner in which evidence may be taken, the kind of evidence which may be admitted and the weight which may be given to evidence are naturally of prime importance in the conduct of judicial proceedings. Although the law relating to evidence is not part of the substantive law of the country, it is a very important part of the adjectival law of the country. It is very important in the administration of the substantive law. I do not want to discuss the merits of the particular clauses of the Evidence Ordinance, but it proposes a general body of law of evidence for the Australian Capital Territory. Senators Cavanagh and Wood have pointed already to the quite substantial changes proposed to the existing law. There are new provisions relating to the admissibility of evidence obtained from certain computers. There are new proposals as to the rights of spouses in giving evidence. There are other matters which have been mentioned already during the course of the debate. None of the lawyers to whom I have spoken about this Ordinance has made any criticism to me of its contents. I do not wish to criticise any part of it. I have no grounds in my mind at the moment for criticising any part of it, but that is not the purpose of the recommendation which the Committee made. 
It is the Committee's view that if such a substantial change in law as is proposed by the Ordinance is to be brought about, it should be debated by the national Parliament. I think that .if the change in the law of evidence is as big as is proposed by the Ordinance, it is bound to have some effect on the views of the legal profession and on the views of other people who are interested in law reform. If any foreigner wished to learn something about Australian law he would look to the enactments of the national Parliament to ascertain what that law is. What he would ascertain if he were to look to this Parliament would be, among other things, the Evidence Ordinance for the Australian Capital Territory introduced in this way. It may well be that there are no imperfections in the Ordinance. It may well be that there are no improvements which anybody could reasonably suggest or on which he could expect the Senate to support him if he were to suggest such amendments. I for one would not be able to say whether this is the case. I have not given sufficient attention to the ordinance as a whole and in particular to ascertain whether it contains something which, in the light of debate, could not be amended quite radically. With the small amount of consideration which, I think through force of circumstance, has been given to the Ordinance, I doubt whether anybody would be able to say that at present. 
On many occasions in the past there have been debates on matters relating to the procedures of the law - not on the substance of the law - and on matters incidental to the substantive law. Quite frequently these matters relating to procedure and to ancillary law rather than to substantive law have been dealt with by the Senate in an impartial way. Not infrequently the Government has accepted amendments. I think that all lawyers who sit on the Government side have at various times in the past voted for the amendments which were before the Senate. It could well be that if the Ordinance were to come before Parliament by way of a Bill such amendments would be made by the Senate. I feel that I can add little to the debate except to say that it would seem obvious to me that the law of evidence is a sufficiently important change in the law to warrant a close and careful examination by the Senate and to warrant an examination in the Committee stage in particular so that if there are any defects which a person believes he detects or any improvements which he believes should be suggested to the Committee, they should be brought forward. 
Furthermore, I think that in a matter such as this, which is of great importance, the Ordinance does warrant some explanation to the Senate by the Attorney-General. In saying this I am in no way critical of the Attorney-General or of the Ordinance. What I am saying is that it does seem to me to be a sufficiently important piece of legislation that it should not be dealt with in a delegated way so that there is not only no debate but only a very cursory explanation by the Attorney-General. We have the opportunity, if we have nothing else, to have explained the purpose of the Ordinance and in particular those innovations in the law which are contained in the Ordinance. For that reason I support the motion moved by  Senator Wood. 
 The announcement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  which was read to the Senate by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson),  indicates that we .are about to close one of the most shameful, tragic and absurd chapters in Australian history. The withdrawal of Australian troops from Vietnam is. something which the members of. the Australian Labor Party, and by now the majority of. the Australian people, have looked forward to with anticipation for many years. This has now come to pass. It has come to pass very late. It has come to pass for 2 reasons. The first is that the aggression of those nations who wished to. impose upon the people of. Vietnam a. form of government and. a group of rulers whom they did not want has been smashed by the heroism and the dedication of the Vietnamese people. The second consideration which has played a part in this withdrawal has been the resistance of many hundreds of thousands of Australian people against the participation of our troops in Vietnam and the resistance of many millions of American people against the continuation of the presence of American troops in Vietnam. 
We have received within the past few hours several documents. Included amongst them are a statement on foreign affairs by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  and a statement by the Prime Minister on the future of Australian forces in Vietnam. In the Prime Minister's statement on the future of the Australian forces in Vietnam are repeated the same old untruths which we have been hearing for the past 6 years - the same weak, implausible explanations for the presence of young Australian conscripts in the unhappy countries of Indo-China. 
I should like to refer to some of the oftquoted pseudo-reasons for the presence of our young men in Vietnam because they are referred to again by the Prime Minister in his statement. He takes us back to 1965 and states: 
It seemed only a matter of time before Hanoi and the Vietcong- 
By 'Hanoi and the Vietcong' he means the Vietnamese people - which supported Hanoi's cause, ' would take over the country by main force in defiance of the 1954 Geneva Agreements. 
This is one of the untruths which have been repeated continually by this Government, namely, that the Vietnamese Government in Hanoi and the National Liberation Front in South Vietnam have been acting in some way in- defiance of the Geneva Agreements. This should not need repetition. If anyone wishes to know whether or not the Vietnamese were acting in defiance of the Geneva Agreements he need do no more than look at the text of the Geneva Agreements. When the Agreements were made in 1954ยฐ, the United States, although not a signatory to the Agreements, indicated quite clearly through its then Secretary .of  State,  Mr Foster  Dulles, that k ' would support and carry out the terms of the Geneva Agreements. 
The Agreements provided quite clearly that there was only one country of Vietnam, that there was only one state of Vietnam. The National Liberation Front, whose armed forces were known as the Vietminh, whose leader was the late Ho Chi Minh, and whose seat of government was in Hanoi, were to be given jurisdiction over the northern sector of Vietnam, and the French, who then were the colonial power in Vietnam, were to be given jurisdiction over the southern part of Vietnam. It was made quite clear in the Agreements that this division was not to be of a .permanent nature, that in no way was it to be construed from the Agreements that there were 2 separate states. There was only one state of Vietnam divided into 2 sectors which were under separate administrations. 
The Geneva Agreements went on to say that as early as practicable, and at the latest by the middle of 1936, there should he held free elections throughout the whole of Vietnam to form a government for the one nation of Vietnam. Those elections were never held. The reason why they were not held was not any action taken by the Government in Hanoi, which commanded the support of the overwhelming majority of the Vietnamese people. They were not held because the Americans, who by that time had de facto succeeded the French as the colonial power in South Vietnam, had introduced into that country certain Vietnamese who for the most part had been absent from the land of their birth for very many years and who established a bogus government which they had the audacity to call the Republic of Vietnam. That government refused to carry OUt the terms of the Agreements, and it was only when it became obvious that the United States and the puppets of the United States were not carrying out the terms of the Geneva Agreements that the National Liberation Front in South Vietnam engaged in armed activity in order to see that the people of Vietnam would be able to conduct their own affairs. It was a long struggle which they carried on for decades against the French, then against the Japanese, then against the French again, and then against the Americans. 
Australia decided to send troops to Vietnam. We have been given various reasons why a certain select group of young Australians should be conscripted to go to fight and to mutilate and to kill and to be mutilated and killed themselves. We have been given various reasons why this should be done to them and why they should be forced to do these things to others of their fellow men. One of the reasons given was that we were defending a small country against aggression. We are told this by a government whose sensitivity to the plight of small countries suffering from aggression has been clearly indicated by the action it has taken in relation to the situation in Bengal in recent weeks. I think that is an indication of just how strongly it really feels about the suffering of humanity and aggression by armed forces. Of course, the Geneva Agreements give the lie to the claim that we are there in defence of a small independent country. It was a fictitious stooge country created by the American Government. 
The second argument, which is probably more honest but at the same time much more contemptible and undesirable, was that we were part of some great American alliance, whose nature is usually unspecified. Sometimes reference was made to the South East Asia Treaty Organisation. Sometimes reference was made to ANZUS. Both of these treaties are clearly not applicable to the situation in South Vietnam, as is indicated by the fact that most of the countries which were members of SEATO were not involved in the war in Vietnam. Two of them - France and Pakistan - are opposed to the American actions in Vietnam. 
The ANZUS Treaty, which refers only to aggression against one of the three member countries - Australia, New Zealand and the United States - obviously has nothing to do with the form of government in South Vietnam. I must confess that when I have been in the United States I have not heard an American talk about the Australian alliance. Here, we were continually told about the American alliance. The argument went that if we would send troops to Vietnam because the United States had troops there, somehow or other in days to come the United States Government would remember what we had done for it and at great inconvenience to itself it would get into difficulties, and give American lives and arms and American wealth in order to save Australia from some aggressor because of what we had done in Vietnam. 1 think it should be fairly clear to even the most gullible member of the Liberal Party, even the most rustic member of the Australian Country Party, and even the most obscurantist member of the Australian Democratic Labor Party that such is far from being the case. What has been the record of relations between the United States and Australia ever since we have had troops in Vietnam? When the United States decided to reduce Australian meat imports into that country, did anybody say that that action should not be taken because Australia had 8,000 troops in Vietnam? When the  President  of the United States decided to go to China to pay court to  Chairman  Mao in order to salvage the few vestiges of American interests still left in that part of the world following the results of the United States' absurd foreign policy, did the  President  give any consideration to the embarrassing situation in which he placed his loyal ally, the Prime Minister of Australia? Did he pay any heed to the situation which existed in Australia at that time after the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  had been to China? 
1 see that  Senator Hannan  is back again. 
 Senator Hannan  should not get too agitated. He knows what a state it puts him into. I am commiserating with his condition and I do not think he should agitate it by getting so annoyed. I suggest to  Senator Hannan  that he read the statement of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen).  If  Senator Hannan  is suggesting that the Leader of the Opposition sold out Australia by going to China I suggest that he carefully read the statement of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and ask for assistance on any parts he cannot understand. Here was the Prime Minister of Australia  (Mr McMahon)  accusing the Leader of the Opposition, with words he has now dropped but which  Senator Hannan  still remembers, of selling out Australia by going to China. Here was the DLP saying that  Mr Whitlam  was the Manchurian 
Candidate, thereby showing a command of some light literature. 

 President Nixon, the  President  of the United States himself, is to go off to China, his arrangements made for him by none other than  Dr Kissinger,  regarded as probably the most eminent - or, if 'eminent' is not the word, the most persuasive and well-informed - adviser to the United States Government. So if the Prime Minister were to continue along his. previous tack he would have no alternative but to describe  President  Nixon as the Manchurian  President,  and to say that  President  Nixon had sold out Australia or had sold out the United States. Of course, the Prime Minister of Australia has put himself in a number of ridiculous situations but even he would find it difficult to redbait  President  Nixon. Even our Prime Minister would find that a little beyond his talents. 
The point I am making in all this is that here was this absurd situation that developed. Did the United States Government pay the slightest heed to the position of its ally, Australia? It paid no heed whatsoever. It consulted no more with the Government of Australia than it consulted wits the governments of Rwanda, Burundi or the Government of the. Soviet Union. The Government of the United States decided that it was in the interests of the United States to talk turkey with the Chinese, and if the Australians did not like it, it was too bad for them. This is what we have been saying ever since this war started. It is absurd nonsense that if we would send 8,000 troops to Vietnam, the United States would come rushing to our support. The United States would come to the support of Australia if it became involved in conflict with another power, if it thought it were in the interests of the United States to do so. The United States would not come to Australia's assistance if it did not think it was in the interests of the United States to do so. The United States thinks it is in its interests to have an agreement with the Government of China and it will have an agreement with the Government of China, whether it is in the interests of Australia or not. 
Within the last few days the floating of the United States dollar has taken place and a 10 per cent surcharge is to be made on imports into the United States. Has the United States Government said: 'But of course, we have to make one exception to all this - dear little Australia and  Mr McMahon.  He has fought so hard in Vietnam with us for so many years that the 10 per cent surcharge does not apply to Australia because of what they have done for us in Vietnam?' Not at all. The 10 per cent surcharge applies to Australia in the same way as it applies to Chile with its Marxist  President,  to Roumania, Bulgaria, East Germany, Albania and Sweden. There has not been one bit of consideration for Australia. If Ted Hill had been Prime Minister of Australia instead of Billy McMahon, the treatment we have had in respect of the floating of the United States dollar would not have been one whit worse than it is at present under the present Government which has sent young Australians to murder and to be murdered in Vietnam in order to build up these treasures in heaven.It has been said that the United States would make great sacrifices on our behalf because of our young men we have had murdered in Vietnam. What has been the result? Our meat cannot be exported to the United States. The United States Government consults with China without telling us a word about it. The United States has floated its dollar and has imposed a 10 per cent surcharge on our exports to that country. There has not been one word of consideration for Australia. 
After all this, is the situation any better? The Prime Minister, in his statement on the withdrawal of troops from Vietnam, tells us of the parlous situation in which we found ourselves back in 1965 before the Liberal Party came to our rescue. What was the situation then? The Prime Minister described certain dreadful things and referred to China, whose aims and policies in the area were causing great concern. He said: 
Nor was that al). The independence of Laos and Cambodia were in precarious balance. 
Apparently the sending of Australian troops to Vietnam stopped all that. I refer now to another document. I do not know whether it indicates a further split in the Cabinet or that the Ministers do not read each other's statements. I refer honourable senators to page 3 of the statement made by the Honourable N. H. Bowen, Q.C., M.P. on the matter. In referring to the situation now he said: 
But the conflict is still unresolved and North Vietnam has its troops not only in South Vietnam but also Cambodia and Laos. 
From the Prime Minister's statement one would have inferred that all sorts of terrible things were going on in Cambodia and Laos but we would send our troops to Vietnam and the situation in Cambodia and Laos would be saved. Everything would be all right. But what does the Foreign Minister tell us? He tells us that North Vietnamese troops are still in Cambodia and Laos and the situation is still unresolved. 

 - Senator Cavanagh has reminded me that he is only a new Foreign Minister. If I may make an observation, he does not seem to be any different from any of the old ones. 
Sitting suspended from  5.45  to  8  p.m. 
General Business Taking Precedence of Government Business After  8  p.m. 
Motion (by  Senator Wright)  agreed to: 
That intervening business be postponed until after the consideration of Government business, that is, order of the day No. 2 dealing wilh the fourth report of the Standing Orders Committee and the adjourned debate on the motion by the Minister for Health that the Senate take note of the paper on the Australian forces in Vietnam. 
asked the Minis ter representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is there an agreement between Australia and the Republic of Ireland providing for the reciprocal payment of social service benefits and is there a double income tax agreement between the two countries? If not, will the Australian Government propose negotiations with the Irish Government with the object of establishing such agreements? 
There is no agreement for reciprocity on social security between Australia and the Republic of Ireland. While some interest was evinced several years ago, no formal approach for such an agreement has been made by the Irish Republic and the question whether the Australian Government should initiate such a move has wide implications and involves matters of policy. However, if the Irish Government were to submit a proposal for reciprocity on social security the Australian Government would, of course, consider it. 
Nor is there a double taxation agreement between Australia and the Republic of Ireland. The Republic is one of a number of countries to have made approaches to Australia in this respect. These approaches are now under study. The questions whether negotiations should be entered into with these countries and, if so, when, are matters of policy which will be determined by the Government in due course. 
I ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. My question refers to an article by the former Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  which appeared in the 'Sunday Australian' of 22nd August. The passage to which 1 refer reads: 

 Mr Fairbairn arrived at the Lodge one morning and made his request for the London post. This may have been in November 1968 as  Mr Alan  Reid (of the "Daily Telegraph') says, but I have been unable to check this. The record books which were kept at the Lodge gates would show the date and time at which he came to call. But 1 have been unable to obtain permission from the custodians of these records to look through them in order to check. 
My question to the Leader of the Government is this: Would the Government show some courtesy to the former Prime Minister and Leader of the Liberal Party and make these records available to him? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI can only say that I will have the matter referred for consideration. 
The petulance of the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  in his first apearance on any matter which has required the exercise of some skill on his part has been such that at this late hour the Senate has been placed in a most ludicrous situation. I think the issues are fairly clear. I am prompted to say something in this debate only because I think that  Senator Greenwood's  concluding remarks require some comment. He has been taking to task members of the Opposition and other honourable senators who voted with the Opposition on this proposition. He has been taking us to task for being inconsistent. The most incredible statement that one could imagine the Minister to have made would be the accusation of being inconsistent when, after a long debate on the merits of a recommendation made by the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, almost the sole argument advanced by the Attorney-General has been the urgency of the need to rectify the present situation. When we introduced a Bill to expedite proceedings in order to allow provisions of the ordinance to continue to apply so that the disorder which has occurred in the Australian Capital Territory courts shall be corrected, he attempted to prevent us from doing so. 
All that the Bill sets out to do is what the Minister has said should be done. It is being done in somewhat different terms, but it is precisely what members of the Government have been arguing throughout the debate. Whatever the merits of the ordiance may be, there must be some evidence law in the Australian Capital Territory. We believe, because there is an important matter of principle involved, that the new laws relating to evidence should not be introduced by way of ordinance but that they should be introduced in another manner. This has been decided by the Senate. 
lt has been twice decided by the Senate, as  Senator James  McClelland reminds me. We do not wish to seem to be responsible or to be responsible for any breakdown in the administration of justice in the Australian Capital Territory. Accordingly we have introduced this Bill. It is only sensible that it should be carried. It is completely ludicrous for the Attorney-General to accuse the Opposition of being inconsistent. All along we have said that because of a certain matter of principle relating to the propriety of introducing matters by way of legislation we have raised this matter. We have not raised the merits of the proposition. We are taking steps to ensure that the law, which  Senator Greenwood  has described as being so desirable, shall be preserved at least until 31st October, by which time the Government will have had an opportunity to take steps to introduce into the Senate and the House of Representatives proper legislation so that the law of evidence in the Australian Capital Territory may be continued. If the arguments raised this evening by Government speakers have any validity, I do not believe that any senator has an alternative but to vote for the Bill. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. As there has been a great deal of public interest in the recent Australian Broadcasting Commission television programme 'Monday Conference' in which  Dr Paul  Ehrlich of Stanford University appeared as guest, will the PostmasterGeneral ask the ABC to retain the video tape of this programme in case there is future demand for a further showing of this programme? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Has the Minister yet read
              the report of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse which was
              tabled by  Senator Marriott  during the last
              sessional period? Does the Minister intend to take action to implement any of those
              recommendations contained in the report which fall within the ambit of his Department?
            
The suggestion was made that some of the funds allocated by the Commonwealth for the
            campaign against drug abuse should be applied to anti-smoking propaganda in the context
            of a health problem. I do not subscribe to that. It would not be consistent with my
            views and I would not agree with it in that sense. 1 want to make this abundantly clear.
            I say this because the Government has made $500,000 available in the year 1971-72 to a
            Commonwealth sub-committee and this amount is subject to annual review. Each 
State and Territory has received a proportion of the grant to develop
            and coordinate its own drug educational programme in line with the views of the
            subcommittee. During 1971-72 a total of $275,000 has been allocated to the States,
            leaving $225,000 available for Commonwealth use. The Commonwealth's share of the
            grant has made possible the preparation of projects for Australia-wide application in
            relation to this drug use prevention proposal, seminars and training courses for State
            and Territory personnel undertaking leadership roles and so on. If we were to encroach
            on that allocation we may help one aspect but we may take away the impact or impetus of
            what the Government wants to do and what the Senate Committee wants to do in relation to
            drug education. I would not support that proposition. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. As hundreds of Australian conscripts have been killed in South Vietnam while allegedly fighting to preserve democracy and as Air Vice-Marshal Ky was until recently held in high regard by the Australian Government, why has this Government done nothing about his allegations of a lack of democracy in the South Vietnam presidential election? Has the Government lost interest in South Vietnam or does it now have the same opinion of Air Vice-Marshal Ky as that which has been held for years by the Australian Labor Party? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Has the Government decided yet what position it will take in the coming session of the United Nations General Assembly on the question of the seating of the People's Republic of China in the General Assembly and on the Security Council, and the continued membership of the Taipeh Government in the United Nations? Will the Parliament have an opportunity to debate the Government's policy before debates take place in the United Nations? 
It would be unique for us to have a debate on a matter of international policy before it went before the United Nations. 1 could think of nothing more disastrous, apart altogether from the procedures of Parliament, than predebating all the decisions of policy on the international scene, let alone the domestic scene. I think the classic answer is that it is a matter of policy and therefore I cannot comment on it. 
I ask the Minister for Health: ls it a fact that since the Western Australian Government ceased to make a lump sum payment to the Western Australian Branch of the Australian Medical Association, which helps to provide medical treatment for Aborigines in the south west of Western Australia, these Aborigines have been left with only the subsidised medical scheme of the Commonwealth Government to help them meet the cost of medical treatment?  ls  it a fact that of the 6,000 or 7,000 Aborigines living in the south-west of Western Australia no more than 1,000 are covered by the subsidised medical scheme? What action is the Minister taking to improve the situation? Will he table correspondence between the Western Australian branch of the Australian Medical Association and his Department on this matter? 
As to the question of tabling the papers, I would have to look at them and see what they are about. 1 recall receiving a communication on this subject from the Western Australian Minister for Health but would need to refresh my memory. In the broad sense what the honourable senator puts forward has some relationship with subsidy. I would need to look at the file and get the facts and then respond to the question. That may be the simpler way of providing the information. 
Fill AIRCRAFT 
1 also have been impelled to enter this debate, although 1 had not intended to do so, because of what has just been said by the Attorney-General  (Senator 
Greenwood) in relation to the amendment which is now before the Committee. I find it rather remarkable that the AttorneyGeneral should introduce into this debate the name of  Mr Martin  who at present is serving a term of imprisonment in South Australia. It appears that the AttorneyGeneral is not satisfied with the fact that  Mr Martin  is serving 2 years imprisonment but needs to denigrate him, to attack him in this chamber, and to make imputations against his integrity and his courage. It should be recalled, when we hear Government senators, including those of military age and their supporters, continuing to speak in favour of conscripting Australians to go to Vietnam, that they have made no sacrifice whatever. It has to be conceded, I should think by even the most enthusiastic supporter of the failed policy in Vietnam and this National Service Bill, that  Mr Martin  has made a sacrifice. He has made a sacrifice of 2 years of his life in prison. A comparable sacrifice has not been made by any of those honourable senators who sit opposite us. 
What concerns me is the frivolity, the flippancy and the lack of seriousness which the Attorney-General brings to this very important amendment which is before the Committee. All he sets out to do is to impute base motives to the mover of the motion, members of the Australian Labor Party in this chamber and elsewhere, and to persons who are serving 2 years imprisonment. None of the basic issues raised in the amendment moved by  Senator James  McClelland have been dealt with in the reply by the Attorney-General - not one of them. 
The proposition being put forward by the Labor Party is that a ground for conscientious objection should be that a person who is subject to conscription may object to the particular war for which he is being conscripted. We are saying nothing in our amendment about the fate of Charles Martin or the particular situation of any other person. We are putting forward as a serious proposition that a ground for conscientious objection should be that a person has an objection to the particular war in which he would be obliged to serve. 
The Attorney-General treats this as if it is all part of some conspiracy by certain members of the Australian Labor Party. I find this rather surprising corning from  Senator Greenwood  who quite often, when he is not attacking the characters of other people, is professing his own dedication to the Christian faith. One would think that  Senator Greenwood  would agree that one of the foremost and substantial beliefs of many Christians is that a man is nol justified in serving in an unjust war and that the question of whether a war is just or unjust is for the conscience of that man. Indeed, I would have hoped - although 1 am quite sure my hopes would have been dashed - that  Senator Greenwood,  who takes a lively interest in conscripting people to fight in wars which he supports, would have known that there is a very substantial body amongst the Catholic clergy and laity in the United States of America who argue for precisely the proposition submitted by the Labor Party in the amendment moved by  Senator James  McClelland - that there should be provision for conscientious objection on the ground that the proposed conscript believes that the war is unjust. A substantial and not insignificant number of Catholic clergy and laity believe that this is in strict accordance with the doctrines of the Catholic Church, as they understand it; that a man shall not fight in an unjust war, and furthermore, that the judgment of what is just or unjust should be arrived at by the exercise of his conscience. 
I am not here to argue for the Catholic clergy or laity. I am saying that this is a serious proposition which has been put forward seriously. If one looks at such important American Catholic theological journals as 'The Commonweal', published by the Society of Jesus, one finds that this is a doctrine which has been put forward consistently for the past 5 or 6 years by this very eminent organ of responsible Catholic opinion in the United States.  Senator Greenwood  may repudiate this doctrine. I would not say that he is not entitled to do so. I nm not saying that because a certain group of Catholic clergy or laity puts forward an argument  Senator Greenwood  or anyone else is bound to support it. But I would suggest that arguments as serious as those which have been put forward seriously tonight by  Senator James  McClelland should be given more serious consideration by the Attorney-General than merely his usual performance of insulting members of the Australian Labor Party, impugning their motives, impugning their patriotism and attacking men who are in gaol. 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation: What stage has the application by Trans-Australia Airlines for permission to carry traffic between Perth and the northern part of Western Australia reached? Is the Minister able to tell the Senate when it is expected a determination will be made on this application? 
I rise for the second time to debate the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on the future of Australian forces in Vietnam. What I am about to say is  in  continuation of what I began to say on 19th August last. It is now about 8 weeks since the debate on the statement was adjourned. It is rather remarkable that such an important announcement, telling the Australian people that Australian conscripts and Australian regular forces will no longer be sent to Vietnam, should receive such cavalier treatment from the Government. One can remember that in 1965 and 1966, when the cry of the Government was 'All the way with LBJ', when we were told about the domino theory, when maps with red arrows pointing to Australia were produced and when fleets of Chinese sampans were sailing towards Lake Burley Griffin, the Government was only too anxious to discuss its Vietnam policy - not because it wished to engage in an analysis of foreign policy, not because it wished to talk about the great issues of peace and war which confront Australians but because it was aware that by talking about the yellow peril and the Red hordes it could frighten a lot of little old ladies in white tennis shoes. At that time we were told that the whole future of this nation, the safety and security of Australians and the preservation of democracy, Christianity and our Judeo-Hellenic heritage depended upon the dispatching of 20-year-old conscripts to Vietnam. 
What  a  different story  it  is now. This most important announcement was made by the Prime Minister and almost 8 weeks has elapsed before the Government brought the debate back into the Senate. Why is this? It is because the Government does not want to debate its failed policy on Vietnam - a policy which has failed completely;  a  policy which has left this Government without one shred of credibility;  a  policy which has dishonoured this country; a policy which has led to the death of nearly 500 Australians; a policy which has led to the death of countless Vietnamese; a policy which has inflicted misery on some of our neighbours in South East Asia; a policy which has rendered fatuous, futile and utterly unworthy of serious consideration the arguments put by the Government over the past 6 years as to why we should be sending young men to die or to be maimed in Vietnam. No wonder the Government does not want to debate this subject. 
On this occasion I think it is opportune to remind the Government of some of the things its supporters said when it introduced this barbaric policy for reasons of election gimmickry. What did they say to us? They said that there was a threat of world wide Communist expansion and that both the Soviet Union and Communist China - Red China as they called it when they were not talking about wheat sales - were determined to conquer this country. As the argument ran, insofar as I could follow it, some diabolical commissars in Moscow or Peking, or both, had determined that the way to fulfil the goal which had been the main desire of their lives - that is, to invade Australia - was to set in motion a fall of dominoes. Firstly they had taken over in Russia and then, by some strange process, they had taken over in China. Then they had taken over in North Korea and then North Vietnam. Then they were on the way to take over in South Vietnam. They were going to come down through Malaysia, Singapore and Indonesia until at last they got to where they were ultimately hoping to get - the Kew Golf Club. 
We were told that opposed to these commissars was our great and powerful ally, the United States of America, steadfastly determined to oppose Communism and to support democracy even if supporting democracy meant sending troops into the Dominican Republic to depose  a  democratically elected president. 
Nothing would inhibit the United States of America in its desire to maintain democracy, so dedicated was it to this great proposition. There was our great and powerful ally with a great and powerful  President,  Lyndon Baines Johnson, with whom we would go all the way and with whom, I think, we have just about gone all the way. 
He had departed. He had shuffled off this mortal coil at the time of which I am speaking, but his spirit lingered on, as did his views on the topics to which I am referring. I am sure that many burned candles to his portrait at night, thinking of the grand old days. Here we were faced with this menace, but we were allied with the United States of America steadfastly opposed to Communism - a country which would never talk to Chou En-lai or Mao Tsetung; a country which would never recognise Communist China; a country which, with every fibre of its being, would oppose the admission of Communist China to the United Nations. We could rest somewhat easy thinking that, with us, this great and powerful ally would turn back the Red hordes which had shown such aggression against Australia that they had moved from North Vietnam into South Vietnam. 
We were told something else. There were those who did not follow these complex theoretical arguments and those whose ideology and idealism were not as finely keyed as those who were impressed by these arguments. There were those of a more mercenary nature - those who wanted to know on which side their bread was buttered; those who felt that there should be some tangible rewards for a present sacrifice. To these people it was suggested that if they were prepared to make the sacrifice of voting to send 20- year-olds to be killed in Vietnam treasures would be stored up, if not in Heaven at least in this temporal world of ours. The main treasure would be that the USA would be so deeply indebted to us for our assistance in helping to withstand the forces of monolithic Communism, that it would look after us in future. It would see to us. It would watch over us. 
It would appreciate our standing by that country in a time of need and it would stand by us in a time of need. 
We were told by the Government, in the same way as it once accused members of the Australian Labour Party of being anti-British, that if in any way any person tended to oppose this policy he was antiAmerican and that this betokened a most disloyal frame of mind, just as I am sure that in about 5 or 10 years members of the Liberal Party will be telling us that if we are anti-Japanese, in their interpretation of that word, we will be equally disloyal. There we were. There was the downward thrust of Communism and there were the dominoes falling over. We had to stop that. In any case whether or not the dominoes were falling over and whether or not the war was a good thing, the United States of America was sending troops there and if we sent our troops there with theirs the United Slates would look after us. We were told that if we were to send Australian troops to Vietnam we would help to stop the dominoes falling. We were told that not only would we preserve this democracy in Vietnam but also we would save other small countries from aggression. 
What are the consequences of all this? It is that the conflict has now extended from Vietnam into Cambodia and has been intensified in Laos, and a war that once could have been described as the Vietnam war is now referred to by most people as the Indo-China war because it would be quite inaccurate to talk about it as the Vietnam war; it is the Indo-China war. In fact, Cambodia, a small neighbouring country - one of those countries which were supposed to be protected by the presence of our troops and the American troops in Vietnam - is now itself a cockpit and a country where there is bitter struggle, death, misery, devastation and many of the other horrors of war which have been witnessed in Vietnam. So much for our policy of defending small countries by our example of being in Vietnam. Not only did we not stop that domino from falling but another country - Cambodia - which, whatever criticisms many people may have made of it, was at least living in peace has now been embroiled in horrible blood-letting, murder, massacre, misery and all the other attendant horrors of modern warfare. 
And have we won in Vietnam? Is anyone seriously suggesting that the Democratic Republic of Vietnam- North Vietnam - has been destroyed or that it is any less powerful now than it was when the conflict started? He would be a very audacious supporter of the Government who would make such a claim as this, because all the evidence is to the contrary. North Vietnam is just as strong as it ever was. It is confident in the victories that it has had and confident of the future victories that it will have. What is the situation in South Vietnam? It is just as devastated and just as subjected to the insurgency of the National Liberation Front as it ever was. 
As  Senator James  McClelland tells me, an election has taken place there. What is the situation with this election? 
I think it goes farther than corruption. The situation in this election is that there is only one candidate. Two of the most eminent South Vietnamese, General Minh and Air ViceMarshal Ky - not so long ago feted on his visit to this country - have condemned the actions of President Thieu and the Saigon Government for the undemocratic manner in which they have conducted this election. Sometimes, one hears from various people the specious argument: 'There are not free elections in North Vietnam. There are not free elections in China. How many candidates are there for the Prime Ministership of the Soviet Union'?, as if this is some devastating, knock-down argument for use against anybody who asks: 'What is the situation in regard to the elections in South Vietnam'? This, of course, is a palpably false and utterly inapt analogy. 
The Government of this country sent Australian troops into South Vietnam because it claimed that it would make South Vietnam different from North Vietnam. What it said was: 'We are different from the Communists in China, North Vietnam and those places. We believe in free elections. That is what we object to about North Vietnam. If the North Vietnamese, the Vietcong or the National Liberation Front were to take over in South Vietnam, that would be the end of free elections'. That is why 500 young Australians have been killed - in order to see that there are free elections. We have not sent troops to North Vietnam and we have not sent troops to China in order to carry out some wild claim that we would preserve democracy. But we have sent troops to South Vietnam for that purpose, and we see now what it means: A virtual dictatorship by President Thieu and the clique around him- When I say that I am quoting not Communist sources - the National Liberation Front, Moscow Radio or the Peking Review - but none other than General Minh and, even more significantly I suggest, Air Vice-Marshal Ky who is so democratic and so committed to the Western way of life that on more than one occasion he has expressed his most warm admiration for the former chancellor of Germany, Herr Hitler. We see there a total failure of our policy. 
Let us look at the other proposition. lt has been said that if we make these sacrifices now, America, being a just nation, will keep a sort of ledger in which it will have black entries and red entries and we will be scoring up some credits, and at some time in the future when we are in a spot of bother the United States will come to our assistance. I am one who has always argued that this argument is false. The United States of America, like any other power, great or small, will act in a way which it believes is conducive to its own best interests and the interests of its own ruling class, and not for any other reasons. Over recent years, we have seen many examples of United States foreign policy and action and how this has worked. 
I return to an example which I have mentioned in the Senate earlier, namely, the relations between the United States and the Netherlands. I suppose that there could not be a more loyal and dedicated ally of the United States than the Netherlands. It was an ally of the United States in World War II. It is a country of similar ethnic and cultural origins to the United States, a country which provided the earliest white settlers in the United States, a country which is a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and which, up to the time about which I am speaking, was also a member of the South East Asia Treaty Organisation. On the other hand, there was the Republic of Indonesia under  President  Sukarno, whose name was often bandied around here as being a sort of halfdomino which somehow had slipped under everybody's guard and got underneath our defenders in Singapore and Malaysia. It was in every respect, we were told, a most reprehensible country. A number of its leading citizens had collaborated with the Japanese during World War II and had been enemies of the United States. It was certainly not a member of SEATO. It was an active member of the Afro-Asian bloc and, in fact, the instigator of the Afro-Asian Congress at Jogjakarta in 1955, at which the most stringent criticisms of the United States were made. It was a country which, in season and out of season, maligned the United States in the United Nations and elsewhere. 
In the dispute which broke out over who was to get West Irian, the former Netherlands New Guinea, when the chips were finally down on which side did the United States come out? It came out on the side of the Republic of Indonesia under Sukarno and not on the side of the loyal ally, the Kingdom of the Netherlands and Her Gracious Majesty, Queen Juliana. Why did it do this? The United States did this because it believed that, whatever the Netherlands had done for it in the past and whatever the Republic of Indonesia had done against it in the past, the best interests of the United States were served by recognising the Indonesian claim to Netherlands New Guinea and repudiating the Dutch claim. 
Yes, Ellsworth Bunker was the ambassador at the time - the man who has also played some role in Vietnam. 
 Yes, in Vietnam he has played a similar part for the United States to that which he has played in other parts of South East Asia. I believe that the moral of this is that if needs be, the United States will treat Australia in precisely the same way. If Australia becomes involved in some military conflict and the United States of America believes that it is in the interests of the United States to come to Australia's assistance it will do so whether Australia had done anything for the United States or not. If Australia became involved in a conflict with someone else and the United States did not believe that it was in its interests to come to Australia's assistance, it would not come lo Australia's assistance. 
Can anyone imagine a  President  of the United States going to his .people in three or four years time and saying: 'I have bad news for you. Indonesia now has nuclear weapons and a dispute has broken out between Indonesia and Australia. We are not involved in this at all but you remember several years ago when the war in Vietnam was on, when we were saving the one candidate presidential democracy of South Vietnam, that the Australians sent 8,000 conscripts up to South Vietnam. So my bad news for you is that despite the fact that we have no interests involved in this conflict between Australia and, say, Indonesia, we are going to go into the war. It might mean that San Francisco, Chicago and New York will all be wiped out by atom bombs but we will have to do it because of what Australia did for us several years ago when their Prime Minister said 'All the way with LBJ.' Of course the United States is not going to do anything remotely like that. We have already seen what the United States has done. When the  President  of the United States announced his intention of going to the People's Republic of China, did he inform his loyal little ally, the Prime Minister of Australia, that he intended to do so? Of course he did not. Did he even give sufficient warning to the Prime Minister of Australia that he intended to go to the People's Republic of China in order to stop the Prime Minister from making a fool of himself when he attacked the visit to China of the Leader of the Opposition? No, he did not even do that. 
When the United States decided to impose a 10 per cent surcharge on imports as a result of its recent currency difficulties did it say that this applies to everyone except Australia because it sent troops to Vietnam? No, of course it did not. We got exactly the same treatment as Romania, Albania and everybody else who engages in any sort of trade whatsoever with the United States. We received precisely the same treatment - a 10 per cent surcharge on Australia the same as the 10 per cent surcharge on Chile with the Government of  President  Allende. As 1 mentioned when I was speaking earlier - but as it is 2 months since we last debated the Vietnam war I may remind honourable senators of it - we could not have got any different treatment if  Mr Ted  Hill had been Prime Minister of Australia and not  Mr William  McMahon. When it comes to any question of exports of Australian meat to the United States, do senators and congressmen from the cattle States and from the Rocky Mountain States say: 'Well, we would like to organise a vote in Congress to do something to stop the import of Australian meat but we had better not do it because they sent some troops to Vietnam'? Of course they do not do anything of the sort. When it comes to negotiating airline agreements between the United States and Australia does the United States say: 'We have a different sort of commercial relation with Australia from those which we have with France, Italy and other countries which did not send troops to Vietnam. We give them special treatment'? Of course not. The United States does not say anything of the sort. 
The United States continues to pursue what it believes to be the policy in its own best interests. As it happens, as has quite often been the case with Republican administrations as opposed to Democratic administrations, there has been a quite radical change in foreign policy - one might say a much more sincere and healthy foreign policy. For myself. 1 have always preferred an honest conservative to a phony liberal and for that reason I think that the Republican administrations have had more intelligent, sensible attitudes to foreign affairs than have the Democrats who, despite their protestations of world peace, seem to have got themselves involved in more wars than the Republicans ever did.  President  Nixon deals with a lot of hard headed businessmen who have never believed all of this nonsense about dominoes falling over and saving democracy in South Vietnam. As the former honourable member for Adelaide said, this is only meant for the people out in Mugsville. They never believed that sort of stuff. 
Yes, the former member for Adelaide. These people believe that 'if you cannot knock them over, if you cannot put them out of the ring, then you have to talk turkey'. They have come to the conclusion now that they cannot knock over the North Vietnamese and whether people like it or not, China is where it is and that is where it is going to stay. There are about 700 million people in that country, which is becoming one of the greatest and most powerful countries in the world, and the Americans intend to talk to them. They do not believe any more that there is any point in their being involved in stupid wars in South East Asia - stupid unwinnable wars such as the one in which they got themselves involved in Vietnam. Slowly but surely and reluctantly they are getting out and at the same time, with some hesitation and with a farewell wave to their old friends in Taipei they are putting forward propositions that Red China, now always respectfully referred to as the People's Republic of China, become a member not only of the United Nations General Assembly but also of the Security Council. This has been the total transformation that has taken place inside American policy in South East Asia. 1 speak of American policy because probably the major part of the propaganda for Australia's involvement in Vietnam - in Indo-China - was because of our American alliance, whatever that is or may be. The Americans have changed their policy, having realised that the situation is not what they originally thought it was. One can say that, however discreditable the American policy might have been, at least it was its own policy and at least that country made its policy in accordance with what it believed to be in its own national interests. The Americans did not go into Vietnam because the Australians had gone there. They went there under their own steam, of their own volition, to do their own dirty work for their own sakes. We went into Vietnam like a pilot fish trailing along behind the shark hoping for a meal that did not turn up. The United States' policy has been completely discredited and our policy has been even more discredited. 
My closing words are these: I believe that there are 2 lessons to be learnt from our sad and sordid experience in Vietnam. To illustrate the first lesson I would like to recall the words of Thomas Wentworth, Earl of Stratford. 'Put not your trust in princes for in them is no salvation'. We are not going to get salvation from any other country. If we want the salvation of this country we need to seek it ourselves. By that statement I am not talking about getting our own atom bomb or our own fleet of submarines. I am talking about building up our own self-reliant community with our own independent trade policies, with our own policies of peace in South East Asia and the whole world. That is the first lesson. 
I believe the second lesson is this, if we have not learnt it already, if we have not learnt it from the experiences of the Dutch in Indonesia, the French in Algeria, the British in India and the Italians in North East Africa, however long it may take the great masses of the world's people are not going to live permanently in a state of colonialism, whether it is political colonialism or economic colonialism. Whether we like the form of government they are adopting or whether we do not like the form of government they are adopting, the people of Indonesia, Indo-China, Malaysia, India, Pakistan - both east and west - are going to choose their own form of government in the same way as the people of China have chosen their form of government. There is nothing that we can do about it and there is nothing that we ought to do about it because the forms of government that these people have are entirely their business and not our business. If we are going to become involved in any future conflicts of this nature it will only lead to greater sacrifices of Australian lives, greater sacrifices of other people's lives and greater damage to Australia as well as suffering, misery and a repetition of the disaster which now, fortunately, is coming to a conclusion in Vietnam. 
 I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
The document which has been presented to the Senate today by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  is most important. It is a report which has been eagerly awaited by many people who are interested in this branch of the law. I think it is well known that a number of countries have had quite a considerable body of administrative law. This has not been the case in Australia. This document is probably one of the most important which has been presented to the Senate. I trust that the Government will give honourable senators an opportunity to debate this important report at some time before the conclusion of this sessional period. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted. 
asked the Minis ter representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did the Malagasy Republic recently expel the United States of America Ambassador and other United States diplomats on the grounds that they were engaging in a conspiracy to overthrow the Malagasy Government? 
Will the Government bear in mind the experience of this friendly anti-communist country, whose President was a recent guest of Australia, when admitting United States of America diplomats and other United Slates Government employees to Australia? 
asked the Minis ter for Health, upon notice: 
Do Aborigines in the South-West of Western Australia receive only Commonwealth Government assistance with regard to medical expenses since the Western Australian Government ceased the payment of a lump sum amount to the Western Australian Branch of the Australian Medical Association, which previously helped to provide medical treatment for Aborigines? 
Are no more than 1,000 of the six to seven thousand Aborigines living in the South-West of Western Australia covered by the subsidised medical scheme; if so, what action is the Minister taking to improve this situation? 
Will the Minister table correspondence between the Western Australian Branch of the Australian Medical Association and the Department of Health on this matter? 
and (2) Aborigines who are members of low income families or who are in receipt of unemployment sickness er special benefits arc eligible for this assistance under the Subsidised Health Benefits Plan. However, the number of Aborigines in the South-West of Western Australia who have availed themselves of assistance under the Plan is not known because no distinction is made between Aborigines and other Australians. Prior to the introduction of the Plan, State authorities and private doctors assumed some responsibility for the cost associated with providing medical care for low income groups and in particular Aborigines. 
In this connection it must be recognised that the Plan is aimed at assisting necessitous grou/s with the costs of health insurance and is not aimed at relieving States or doctors of responsibilities which they previously carried. It is proposed to introduce, as from 1st November 1971, a simplified application form for low income families. Provision will be made on the form to enable a responsible person, such as a hospital secretary, or doctor, to complete, on behalf of someone incapable of completing the official application form, the necessary administrative steps in applying for assistance under the Plan and in enrolling in the health insurance fund. 
In addition, I have instructed my Department to examine more effective means of assisting eligible persons to use the help available, and it is proposed that this examination will encompass greater utilisation of social workers, charitable organisations, and other appropriate welfare groups in the community. 
Correspondence between my Department and the Western Australian Branch of the Australian Medical Association was concerned with proposals put forward by the Association to assist wilh the payment of doctors for services rendered to Aborigines. 
The Departmental replies were similar, in substance, to the answer I have given to the Honourable Senator's questions and I will make copies of them available to him if he so desires. 
 The Leader of the Government in the Senate, the Minister for Health  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson) has done his best to make what he could of a bad job.  His  speech, which was commendably quiet, reminded me for all the world of the sort of speech that could have been given by a very moderate member of the Australian Labor Party about 10 years ago. The Minister said that the Government now desires, and always has desired, peaceful and friendly relations with the People's Republic of China; that it welcomes China's admission to the United Nations, where it will learn of th? high responsibilities which we and other countries apparently have learnt there; and that it is quite delighted that the People's Republic has been admitted to the United Nations although it is a pity that the Government's old friends in Taiwan, the so-called Republic of China, are no longer members. 
This statement in itself would be quite acceptable were it not a complete reversal of everything that the Government has been saying for the past 20 years, a reversal of the points it has made consistently in support of its election programmes for the past 20 years, lt seems to me only the other day - it cannot be very much longer - that we were being shown maps with red arrows leading from China to Australia. We were told that th: first duty of all Australians was to resist this menace from the north and that the ultimate proof of the treasonable intent of members of the Australian Labor Party was that they argued that there should b: recognition of the Government of Pekina, and admission of the People's Republic of China to the United Nations, lt was not more than a few months ago that we were told about the domino theory. We were told that the dominoes, the countries between China and Australia, were falling over or being pushed over by China, our enemy, and that it was threatening this country. Indeed, young Australians are still being killed and maimed in Vietnam and young Australians are still killing and maiming people in Vietnam in pursuit of the Government's policies which have been based, so we have been told, on the threat of China to this country. However, the Government at least has decided to put up with what it cannot change. It realises now that China is here, that it is not going to go away, however hard the Govern men may wish that it would go away, and that it is firmly and securely within the United Nations. 
If one looks at the terms of the matter raised for discussion by  Senator Byrne  one sees within it all the ingredients of thai sinister conspiracy which is enveloping Australia. One only wonders that marihuana and abortion were not mentioned as well. We find in this motion this do-ible threat: 
The implication!; for Australian  defence  and  security  of Britain's decision to enter the European Economic Community- 
Whatever that means remains a mystery to me despite  Senator Byrne's  efforts of explanation -  and the decision of the United Nations to seat the People's Republic of China in the General Assembly of the United Nations and on the Security Council in place of the Republic of China and to expel the Republic of China from the world body. 
According to  Senator Byrne  and the Democratic Labor Party we are faced with a double threat, a two-pronged conspiracy. On the one hand there is the conspiracy of Great Britain and the European Economic Community to join together, and on the other hand there is the conspiracy of the United Nations to admit the People's Republic of China and to expel the Government of the Republic of China which is based in Taipeh. 1 do not know whether a great deal needs to be said about this. I do not think that one could believe seriously that there is some conspiracy in the European Economic Community. I do not think anybody could seriously believe that Britain's entry into the European Economic Community will make any difference whatsoever to Australia's security. Ever since the Second World War Britain has been a declining capitalist country. Its colonial possessions have been steadily eroded and it has been withdrawing from every pari of the world in which it once held sway. This has been an inevitable process. I cannot see that it has been either hastened or slowed by Britain's proposed admission to the European Economic Community. I fail to see what difference this has made to Britain's political and military position in South East Asia - a declining position resulting from the declining power of a former imperial colossus. For a great many years there has been discussion in Britain about joining bodies such as the European Economic Community. In 1953 and 1954 when I was living in London I can remember that great debates were taking place. Particularly I remember debates inside the British Labour Party; but debates were taking place inside the British Conservative Party and elsewhere as to whether at that stage Britain should join the European Defence Community. In fact, had Britain joined that community there would have been more serious implications - if indeed there are any serious implications - for Australia's  security. That did not happen. The tendency has been for Britain to settle down as a medium sized European power and to get out of its world entanglements. In some respects that is a very wise decision although one may well criticise the composition and constitution of the European Economic Community. 
I shall now go on to the other aspect of the conspiratorial situation in which according to the Democratic Labor Party we find ourselves and that is the decision of the United Nations to seat the People's Republic of China in the General Assembly and on the Security Council and to expel the so-called Republic of Taiwan. The Australian Labor Party is in complete agreement with this decision. Lest it be said that this is only the view of some dissident groups I think it should be noted who were among the 76 countries which voted for the admission of China and the expulsion of Taiwan from the United Nations. I certainly do not intend to name all the countries but it is rather interesting to find the following Western countries - most of which are regarded as being strongly anti-Communist - among the 76 countries which voted for China's admission and Taiwan's expulsion. They included Denmark; France; Iceland; Ireland; Israel - a country which we are told is under serious threat from the Communist conspiracy but which had no compunction in voting for the Albanian resolution; Italy; the Netherlands; Norway; Sweden; the United Kingdom and Portugal - a remarkable addition to the list. Several years ago I was in a Portuguese colony. Sometimes I would talk to the Portuguese officials who tended to sound to me like rather more intelligent members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. I remember one explaining to me that in his view a very serious situation had occurred in that there had been Communist infiltration of the Vatican. I understood that this was a rather prevalent view among Portuguese colonial officials. But even Portugal - the Klu Klux Klan of the Iberian Peninsula - voted for the admission of the Peking Government to the United Nations and the expulsion of the Taiwan Government. 

 Senator Byrne quoted various unnamed luminaries in Singapore, Malaysia and elsewhere who spoke about the very real threat they felt from the downward thrust of Communist China, the perturbation that they felt about the presence of battleships from the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and other aspects of the international Communist conspiracy. But it is rather interesting that despite what they told  Senator Byrne  - and as the Bible says: 'By their deeds ye shall know them' - when the voting actually took place in the United Nations General Assembly quite a number of Asian countries voted for the Albanian resolution. In fact quite an overwhelming majority of Asian countries voted for the resolution. Who were they? They were Afghanistan; Bhutan which has a common border with the People's Republic of China; Burma, which also borders China and which has had considerable negotiations with China, about the settlement of border problems; Ceylon, India and Laos. Laos is one of the countries are supposed to be saving from the falling dominoes. It voted for the expulsion of Taiwan and the admission of China, as did Malaysia where  Senator Byrne  was told about the dreadful threat of Communism from the north. Other countries which voted for the resolution were Nepal which is another country which borders China; Pakistan and Singapore, another country which we have been told has been threatened. Every one of those countries is an important member of the Asian community. I am not counting amongst these countries those such as Mongolia which has a Communist Government. I am giving the names of only non-Communist Asian countries. In fact, in some cases they have strongly antiCommunist Asian governments. All these countries voted for the admission of China and the expulsion of the Taipeh Government. 
When one looks at the 35 nations which voted against the expulsion of the Taipeh Government and the admission of China, one finds Bolivia, Brazil, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti - a great democracy - Honduras, Nicaragua, Paraguay, Uruguay and Venezuela. Out of the 35 countries which voted against the Albanian proposition 12 - over a third - were South American client states of the United States of America. Those countries are almost  completely dependent for their arms and the maintenance of their government upon American aid through the mis-named Alliance for Progress, lt is rather interesting to find that the threat of Communist China is felt so clearly in the Dominican Republic, Haiti, Paraguay and Bolivia - where a new crowd of colonels has just taken over - but not felt in Singapore, Malaysia and Nepal. 
At this stage something should be said about the expulsion of the Taipeh Government from the United Nations. Only the other day  Senator Lillico  asked a question. It reflects something which has been said in a number of places - including the United Nations by the Australian delegate - and that is that Taiwan, a country of 14 million people, has always paid its bills and done the right thing by everybody, a friend to every man and an enemy to none, has been sadly and shabbily treated by being expelled from the United Nations. In fact, no such thing happened. Taiwan was not expelled from the United Nations. The decision of the United Nations General Assembly was that the Government in Peking was the government of China and the Government in Taipeh was not the government of China. 
The Government in Taipeh never claimed that it was the government of Taiwan, entitled to have representation in the United Nations as a country of 14 million people. The Government in Taipeh claimed to be the government for the whole of China. It claimed precisely the same territorial boundaries as those claimed by the Government in Peking - the Government of the People's Republic of China. The United Nations was called upon to decide which government was the government of China. Clearly the United Nations could not say that they both were, so at long last it said the sensible thing. It said that the Government in Peking was the Government of China, not the Government in Taipeh. The Australian Government had refused to recognise this situation. Reluctantly and belatedly after SOO Australian deaths in Vietnam the Australian Government came to the conclusion that it had to recognise that the Government in Peking was at least the government on the mainland of China. 
The Australian Government was carried by President Nixon into the 1970s kicking and screaming. But still it refused to recognise the simple point that there could not be 2 governments of China. It tried to save its old friends in Taiwan and it failed as it was doomed to fail. 
Some mention has been made of the menace of the Soviet Union and its naval forces. I have never been quite clear as to precisely what these naval forces are. 1 have heard of fishing boats in Mauritius and 1 have heard of a cruiser which went to Colombo at the invitation of the conservative former Government of Ceylon in order to celebrate the anniversary of Buddah's birth. I do not know what these great naval forces are in the Indian Ocean about which we hear so much. 
But I find among the latest press releases a communique, for example, from the French Ambassador in Canberra. What does he say? He is referring to a very complex bubble chamber which has been manufactured in France and transported to the Soviet Union. What does this bubble chamber do? This complex bubble chamber enables the photographing of the traces of particles emitted during high energy nuclear reactions. These photographs are used in the study of nuclear physics and matter structure. Here we find a country such as France with an anti-communist government under  President  Pompidou so little in a state of fear of what the Soviet Union might do that it is even cooperating with the Soviet Union in such important matters to the life of humanity and the security of France as nuclear weapons and nuclear reactors. Yet the Australian Demorcratic Labor Party and the Australian Government are still talking about this great menace coming from the Soviet Union. 1 should like to conclude by quoting a few words from the Prime Minister of Great Britain who has just led his country into negotiations for Britain's entry to the European Common Market. No-one could accuse  Mr Heath  of being a communist or a communist sympathiser. He says: 
I have spoken to you of a new world. 
This is the speech he made at the Conservative Party conference. He continues: 
That is no vision of the future. It's happening out there now for all to see. It's there in the new patterns of power. In the sight of China, the awakened giant, taking up its role in the world. 
I would commend this speech of  Mr Heath  to his fellow Tories sitting opposite and to the Democratic Labor Party. At least the Prime Minister of Britain has been prepared to look at these matters seriously, without emotion or hysteria, and come down to sensible conclusions about the world in which we live. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! The honourable senator's lime has expired. 
 The purpose of this Bill is to validate certain decrees which have been granted under the Matrimonial Causes Act in South Australia and New South Wales and certain other orders made by registrars and other court officials which have been placed in jeopardy by recent decisions of the High Court. This Bill is designed merely to rectify the situation and to ensure that those persons who would otherwise be adversely affected by the lack of validity of the proceedings shall be protected. The Australian Labor Party is not opposing the Bill. Indeed, the Party does not have a position on the matter at all. The question of matrimonial causes is regarded within this Party as being a question of conscience. In any event, I doubt whether any member would feel that his conscience constrained him to vote against the validating of decrees which have been made already -under the existing Act. 
I certainly do not intend to prolong these proceedings as the Senate has a great deal of other business to attend to. In any eve:t. it would seem that this matter would be uncontroversial. All I wish to say is that the first Commonwealth Matrimonial Causes Act was passed in 1959. Since then, there has been only one major amendment - I believe it is the only amendment - in 1966. I take the opportunity while speaking on this Bill to submit to the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  that perhaps it may be time shortly for the Commonwealth Government to engage in a further review of the Matrimonial Causes Act. Various criticisms have been made of it, particularly with regard to procedures and certain matters relating to costs. It should be apparent that it is not a perfect Act and there would be some amendments, which I think would be fairly obvious to most legal practitioners, which perhaps could be made. Indeed, some further consideration may be given to the grounds under which divorces at present may be granted. There was a review when the 1966 amendments were brought before the Parliament. Having said that, I have nothing further to add. I merely indicate that the Opposition certainly does not intend to oppose this Bill. 
 I think  Senator Byrne  and I are interested in the same point. It is of interest to the Committee to find out exactly what we are doing. The AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood)  has said that it is not the purpose of this Bill, or it is not the effect of this Bill, to validate purported decrees. Yet in the last paragraph of his second reading speech on this Bill the Minister states: 
In the result, the present Bill will in no way deprive any litigant of the fruits of his litigation. However, in the many cases to which the Bill will apply, it will provide for the rights of persons to be as it was intended that they should be when the purported orders were made and will place the persons affected in the same position as  they  believe themselves to be in before the High Court decisions which I have mentioned. 
Surely this must mean that if persons thought that they had been divorced by a decree of whichever Supreme Court it was, what the Attorney-General is saying is that the purpose of the Bill is to place them in the position that they thought they were in, and that is that they did have a valid decree. In fact, clause 5 (3.) (a) does this quite clearly. It provides for the rights, liabilities, obligations and status of all persons. As  Senator Byrne  has pointed out, it is not the subject of an ancillary order; the status is the subject of the judgment of the court itself in the major cause of action. The clause reads: 
The . . . status of all persons are, by, force of this Act, declared to be, and always to have been, the same as if - 
in the case of a purported decree mads by an officer of the Supreme Court of a State other than a purported decree to which the next succeeding paragraph applies - the purported decree had been made by the Supreme Court of that State constituted by a single Judge. 
I merely raise the question which is bothering both  Senator Byrne  and me: If this does not mean that purported decrees are validated, what in fact does it mean? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. As there is public interest in Western Australia in the segment of the television programme This Day Tonight', not shown in Western Australia, in which the Attorney-General and 

 Mr Michael Matteson discussed the National Service Act, will the Minister see to it that people in Western Australia have the same opportunity to see the segment and to hear the unusual dialogue in it as television watchers in the eastern States have had? 
The Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  has set himself up as the champion of law and order since he took occupation of his present office. Tonight I think he has shown us precisely what he means by law and order. It means the exercise of his office as Attorney-General to slander his political opponents and, more particularly, deliberately to prejudice the trial of an official of the Australian Labor Party which is to take place shortly in Victoria. Tonight  Senator Cavanagh  put quite specific questions to the AttorneyGeneral. They were questions of which the Government has had notice for some 6 months. Is it not a fact that there are some 11,000 persons at present in Australia who have failed to comply with the provisions of the National Service Act; that this is known to the Government; that the Government has refrained from prosecuting them; and that it has deliberately victimised certain other individuals and prosecuted them? These are the questions which have been put repeatedly for the past 6 months by  Senator Cavanagh  and other members of the Australian Labor Party. 
The Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  said that he can answer them if he has one hour's notice. We are looking forward to his answer when we come in here tomorrow. That will allow him considerably more than one hour in which to provide an answer. The fact is that the Government has had 6 months' notice. 
What was  Senator Greenwood's  reply to this?  His  reply that it is the purpose of the Australian Labor Party to assist people to evade the National Service Act. I will not speak for the Australian Labor Party but I will speak for myself. I would be prepared to assist someone to evade the National Service Act. I regard it as an iniquitous Act, an Act brought down not for any honourable purpose but as part of an election gimmick by men of military age. who would not dream of serving in Vietnam themselves, in order to conscript young men to go away and kill and maim or to be killed and maimed. There are no Australians for whom I have higher respect than those young Australians who have refused to comply with this vicious Act. 

 Senator Greenwood referred to the history of the Australian Labor Party. I think that the most honourable chapter in the history of the Australian Labor Party was the resistance it put up to conscription in the First World War when John Curtin himself was sent to gaol for sedition. It is no use  Senator Greenwood  appealing to the history of the Australian Labor Party. Here he is speaking about law and order. While so doing quite gratuitously he introduced into this debate the name of  Mr Hartley,  a former secretary of the Victorian branch of the Labor Party. He found this very amusing. No doubt he does because he can attack a man in the sanctity of the Senate knowing that that man is awaiting trail at the present time. What did  Senator Greenwood  do? He introduced the name of  Mr Hartley. His  name was not included in any of the questions asked by  Senator Cavanagh  or anyone else.  His  name was not introduced into this debate by the Opposition. He is not a member of this chamber and so cannot answer in person ' the allegations that  Senator Greenwood  has made against him, but  Senator Greenwood,  should and, I am sure, does know, that  Mr Hartley  is at present awaiting trial for an offence alleged to be related to what took place at a certain demonstration against the South African rugby team which  Senator Greenwood  so ardently supported. He well knows that  Mr Hartley  is awaiting trial, and yet he deliberately introduced his name into this debate and made allegations about his allegedly unlawful conduct for no other purpose than, under privilege, blackguard this man who is awaiting trial. 
This is the man who sets himself up as the Attorney-General, the champion of law and order. How does he use this office which should be one of the offices of the greatest honour amongst lawyers in this country? He uses it to engage in a blackguardly attack on a man who cannot defend himself in the same way as he used this office to engage in blackguardly attacks on young men throughout Australia who have had the courage of their convictions in refusing to go to Vietnam, while  Senator Greenwood  and his colleagues of military age have shown their lack of courage by not going to fight in the war in Vietnam to which they have been sending these young men. But these young men we have been speaking of tonight have shown great courage in refusing to go and I for one applaud them. 
The Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service may recall that at approximately midnight last night he informed the Senate that if he had an hour's notice he would be able to answer the question which was asked by  Senator Cavanagh  as to whether there were some 11,000 persons in breach of the National Service Act who had not been prosecuted: As some 15 hours have elapsed since this undertaking was given by the Minister is he now in a position to answer the question? 
 I move that the motion that the Bill be now read a second time be amended as follows: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert "the Bill bc withdrawn and redrafted 1o provide that the Commonwealth establish an Australian Schools Commission to examine and determine the needs o! students in Government and non-government primary, secondary and technical schools and recommend grant.* which the Commonwealth should make to the Slates to assist in meeting the requirements of all school-age children on the basis of needs and priorities, and in making recommendations for such grants to the States, the Commission shall havยซ regard to: 
the primary obligation of governments to provide and maintain government school systems of the highest standard open to all children; 
the numbers of students enrolled in the various schools: 
the need to bring all schools up to acceptable standards: and 
the need to ensure optimum use of resources in the establishment, maintenance and extension of schools.' 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! Is the amendment seconded? 
 Five Bills are now before the Senate. The Government and the Opposition have agreed to debate them concurrently relating as they do to clearly cognate matters - education. Although the 5 Bills which are now before us may seem to be very different they relate to the policy and performance of the Government and bear on the policy of the Australian Labor Parly in the field of education. To put the debate in order at this stage I shall move the amendment which the Opposition proposes to this Bill and indicate that amendments will be moved in respect of another two. To assist the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  who in this chamber represents the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  I point out in passing that the Opposition does not intend to oppose two of the Bills, namely, the Australian Universities Commission Bill and the Australian Commission on Advanced Education Bill. The Opposition will be supporting those 2 Bills. Amendments will be proposed to the 3 other Bills. In relation to the States Grants (Universities) Bill (No. 2) I move: 
At end of motion add ', but the Senate is of the opinion that the Bill should provide for assumption by the Commonwealth of responsibility for financing university education'. 
I understood the copies had been distributed. Does the Minister have copies? 
I am sorry but I understood that copies of the amendments had been distributed. In relation to the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill 1971 I shall move an amendment to the motion that this Bill be now read a second time in the following terms: 
At end of motion add -  but the Senate is of the opinion that (1) the policy of matching grants should be examined to ascertain whether it permits of an adequate system of advanced education; and (2) sufficient funds should be made available to the States in the form of recurrent grants to permit the abolition of fees in Colleges of Advanced Education'. 
In relation to the States Grants (Secondary School Libraries) Bill 1971 I shall move as an amendment to the motion that the Bill be now read a second time: 
Leave out all words alter 'That', insert 'the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted to provide that the Commonwealth establish an Australian Schools Commission to examine and determine the needs of students in Government and nongovernment primary, secondary and technical schools and recommend grants which the Commonwealth should make to the Slates to assist in meeting the requirements of all school-age children on the basis of needs and priorities, and in making recommendations for such grants to the States, the Commission shall have regard to- 
the primary obligation of governments to provide and maintain government school systems of the highest  standard  open to all children; 
the numbers of students enrolled in Ihe various schools; 
the need to bring all schools up to acceptable standards; and 
the need to ensure optimum use ยปf resources in the establishment, maintenance and extension of schools'. 
Those are the Labor Party's amendments. One might have hoped, when having simultaneously from the Government 5 Bills relating to education, that one could detect in them some constant theme, some philosophy of education, a necessary interest of any civilised society. If one looks at these 5 Bills one sees that although they relate to somewhat different matters they are all related to the education of young Australians. One finds that these Bills are disparate. Each has little in common with the others and they show no overall philosophy of education, unless one can say that this philosophy of education is one of neglecting the education of Australian students; undess one can say there is an overall philosophy which consists of the evading of responsibility. 
I should like to deal with the Bills in some sort of order. The Opposition does not wish to oppose 2 of them. I refer to the Australian Universities Commission Bill 1971 and the Australian Commission on Advanced Education Bill 1971. These are Bills of a somewhat technical nature dealing with the -requirements of these commissions. The Australian Labor Party is in favour of the appointment of these commissions and there is very little that can be said on the matter other than to indicate that the Opposition does not intend to dispute at this stage anything that was said by the Minister in his second reading speech. However, when we turn to the other 3 Bills which are before us we come to the substance of the Government's education policy and we see quite clearly the issues which divide the conservative parties in Australia from the Australian Labor Party on the question of education. 
The first of the Bills, the States Grants (Universities) Bill 1971, makes provision for grants by the Commonwealth to the States in order to make certain provisions for universities. 
The honourable senator asked me whether he did not read that ihe Australian Labor Party believes that State schools should be handed over to some church school organisations. I wish to say in answer to the honourable senator that I categorically reject that proposition. This is certainly not the policy of the Australian Labor Party. If this was said by anyone it was a complete misrepresentation of Australian Labor Party policy. Our policy does not remotely resemble any such statement that we should hand over State schools to church school organisations. Our policy is perfectly clear. However, the proposition outlined by the honourable senator may be misrepresented by opponents' as Australian Labor Party policy. The Australian Labor Party policy is set out very clearly in the amendment which I have moved to the S'ata Grants (Secondary School Libraries) Bill which is at present before the Senate. 
The proposal is totally contrary to our policy. It has no resemblance to our policy and is repudiated by the Australian Labor Party and has been successively repudiated at federal conferences of the Party. I can assure the honourable senator that I am not here to advocate that policy and indeed as a member of the Australian Labor Party I could not advocate such a policy because it is totally contrary to our policy. 
The amendment which I have moved to the motion that the States Grants (Universities) Bill (No.  2) 1971  be now read a second time is as follows: 
Al end of motion add ', but the Senate is of the opinion that the Bill should provide for assumption by the Commonwealth of responsibility for financing university education.' 
This Bill provides for the granting by the Commonwealth to the States of moneys in order to maintain existing State universities. It is our opinion that this grant is being made on a piecemeal basis and that the situation at present is cumbersome and unwieldy. Although the universities in the various States are in most instances constituted by the States themselves - I say in most instances because the Australian National University is an exception - it is the Commonwealth which is called upon to fulfil the financial obligations of maintaining the universities. Apart from funds made available by the States and from certain private benefactors the Commonwealth has the main obligation in this field. If it were not for the Commonwealth the universities would not be awe to carry on. In fact, this Bill makes recognition of this. Tt provides for the additional expenditure which the universities have had to incur because of rises in the salaries of nonacademic staff employed by the universities. 
The Australian Labor Party believes that the question of tertiary education, and in particular university education, is so important that it should not be handled on the basis whereby it is administered by such a great number of bodies. For instance, the Australian Universities Commission and various commissions in different States are concerned with State universities. In my own State of Western Australia there is a Tertiary Education Commission. Before anything can be done, before any innovations can be made or before there can be any change or any development within the universities consultation has to take place between all of these bodies. The States are unable to develop their own universities along their own lines, as they would have done before Federation and have done until a rela tively few years ago. Therefore there can be no argument that there is any advantage in the autonomy which exists in the States because it is a spurious autonomy only; it is an autonomy which creates a separation between the universities and the Commonwealth, which provides the bulk of their funds, and which at the same time inhibits the Commonwealth from exercising adequate control over the universities and from engaging in proper development of the universities. 
We believe that an end should be put to this. We believe that full responsibility for financing university education should be assumed by the Commonwealth. We believe also that- this is in accordance with our policy that university education should be provided free to all those capable of benefiting from it. This is the case in a great many countries. It is the case in many of the States in the United States of America, lt is the case in not only both Western Europe and Eastern Europe but in many parts of Asia. One of the reasons why Australia - I do not suggest it is the major reason - is now becoming so dependent upon Japan is the fact that th'e young people of Japan have much greater opportunities of being trained not only in the older disciplines of universities but in the newer disciplines - studies of the techniques, the methodology of modern science - than do their counterparts in Australia 
We believe this is something which can be dealt with only by a national plan and that national plan can be carried out  only if the Commonwealth assumes complete responsibility for financing university education. 
The- second amendment I shall move relates to the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill. As the Minister very correctly pointed out in his second reading speech, one of the interesting developments in education in Australia over past years has been the development of colleges of advanced education. I do not think any of us really could predict the ultimate status of colleges of advanced education, particularly as they are introducing the awarding of degrees to their graduates. Obviously there is something which distinguishes colleges of advanced education from universi-ties, although often what it is is not quite clear. It is by no means the case that, for example, if somebody studies architecture at the University of Western Australia he is more intelligent or more capable than somebody who studies architecture at the Western Australian Institute of Technology. Nor indeed would anyone be able to say that someone is a better architect because he went to the University rather than to the Institute. It seems that there is more emphasis - insofar as one can emphasise practical matters in any theoretical institution - on practical matters in colleges of advanced education than in universities; that perhaps there is more abstract theory involved in universities. Whatever the differences are, there are differences. 1 think everyone would agree that the future role and status of institutes of advanced education have not yet been settled. It is certainly true that they are playing an important role in the education of Australians and that many excellent graduates from colleges of advanced education have been able lo play their part in not only, the economic life of Australia but elsewhere in the life of this country and that they are making a considerable contribution to Australia. 
However, the Labor Party proposition is that more should be done in this field. We believe that the proposition that colleges of advanced education ought to be maintained on a system of matching grants by the Commonwealth should be re-examined. Our approach to this - and this shows the consistency of the Australian Labor Party approach to education - is that there should not be any more of a piecemeal approach to colleges of advanced education than to universities. If in a particular State, for some reason or other, funds are not available in the same quantity as they are in another State, it does not follow that it is in the national interest that there should be fewer opportunities for education within a college of advanced education in that State, which appears to be impecunious or reluctant to make funds available, than (here are in the other State. We believe this is something which calls also for a national plan because the needs of education are national needs. Our population geographically is very mobile. In some respects, although perhaps decreasingly so, it is socially and economically mobile. The problems of education in Tasmania can be important to the people of Queensland, and the problems which may be facing educators and those who wish to be educated in Western Australia can affect the people of New South Wales and Victoria. 
For that reason we ask, first, that the policy of matching grants be reconsidered. We are not being adamant on this matter but we are asking for an examination of the whole system of matching grants to see whether it permits an adequate system of advanced education. We also say about the colleges of advanced education, just as we say about pre-school education, primary and secondary education and university education, that education within the colleges of advanced education should be free. The second part of the amendment to the Slates Grants (Advanced Education) Bill which I shall move provides that: 
Sufficient funds should be made available to the States in  the  form of recurrent grants to permit the abolition of fees in Colleges of Advanced Education. 
We do not believe that a person should be deprived of the opportunity of benefiting from the education which these colleges provide because he does not have enough money to attend a college, or his parents or his family have not enough to send him to a college. We do not believe that Australia should be deprived of the contribution that this person would be capable of making as a result of that education because, of the poverty of his family, his parents or himself. 
I now turn to the third Bill which the Australian Labor Party proposes to amend, the States Grants (Secondary School Libraries) Bill. This is a somewhat remarkable Bill because for the first time to my knowledge specific provision is made within a Bill itself for the terms under which the grants are to be made to private nonCatholic schools and private Catholic schools. We believe that this is not a correct approach. The Australian Labor Party acknowledges in its policy that the non-State schools have needs and that the needs should be mei, but they should be met in a specified way and according to a specified order of priorities. No argument was presented by the Minister in his second reading speech as to how the figures relating lo the requirements of the various groups of schools dealt with in the schedule to the 
Bill were arrived at. No argument was presented by the Minister as to the needs of the various schools involved in this Bill. All we know is that certain moneys are to be made available to State schools, certain money is to be made available to nonCatholic private schools and certain money is to be made available to Catholic private schools. Apparently the amounts are to be assessed on the basis of the number of pupils attending those schools. 
Yes, that is so. In the second reading speech it was stated that an assessment would be made in each individual school to determine what was needed to bring its library up to an adequate standard - whatever that may mean. 
I listened to the Minister. I point out to him that 1 have to deal with 5 Bills. We will have an opportunity to discuss this matter in the Committee stage. It is rather difficult for me to engage in a dialogue, enjoyable though it may be in other circumstances, with the Minister at this time. 

 - Senator Douglas McClelland has asked me what those circumstances would be. I cannot quite think of them at the moment but I am sure there must be some. A number of very important philosophical questions are raised by this proposition. There has not been any discussion in this country, nor any serious discussion in this Parliament, in the same way as there has been in the United States of America, for example, where there has recently been a decision of the United States Supreme Court on this matter. The question is whether section 116 of the Constitution which provides for the separation of Church and State is being infringed by allocations of this kind. This seems to me to warrant some sort of discussion because if section 116 is not being infringed by a Bill of this nature one can only wonder what one would have to do in order to breach section 116 of the 
Constitution. Certainly an almost identical provision in the United States Constitution was held by the United States Supreme Court to prohibit grants of this kind being made in that country and one would have thought that at least when this rather unique proposition was presented to the Senate the Minister, if only in passing, would have touched on this very important mater relating to our Constitution and the philosophy which, I have understood, for many years has been one of the hallmarks of our society. 
The Opposition says a number of things in its amendment and the answers to some of the questions asked earlier by  Senator Wood  about the Australian Labor Party's policy may be found in the amendment. We say, first of all, that the primary obligation of governments is to provide and maintain government school systems of the highest standard and open to all children, ft is only when those needs have been met that anything else may be done by the Government. Certainly nobody, not even the most enthusiastic advocate of the Government, could say that we have a situation in Australia where this primary obligation has been fulfilled and that we are providing and maintaining a government school system of the highest standard and open to all children. We are certainly not providing a government school system remotely resembling one of the highest standard. I do not know precisely what 'the highest standard' is but ours is certainly a lower standard than is to be found in many other countries. I do not need to elaborate on that because all honourable senators are aware of that fact. 
Our system is not even open to all children. There are many who find it necessary to leave school at the minimum permissible age. Many of these children wish to continue their education, would be capable of benefiting from their education and would be capable of benefiting their fellow mcn by having a higher education. But they are incapable of carrying on because of their financial position. That is what the Opposition means when it says that the schools should be open to all children. They are now open to all children in the same way as the Ritz Hotel is open to everybody; they arc only open to those who are able to pay for it. 
The Opposition says that this is the first priority but this priority has not been met by the Government. Having said that it then considers that .to determine the needs of all schools we should establish an Australian schools commission - this is outlined in our policy - similar in many respects to the existing Australian Universities Commission, it would consider the needs of all the different bodies engaging in education and of the schools within the different systems of education, bearing in mind that the first responsibility is to the children in the government schools. 
Having fully met that responsibility to the children in government schools it would then look at the numbers enrolled in the various schools and the need to bring all schools up to acceptable standards. The Minister referred to this and reminded me of it while 1 have been speaking. The purpose of this amendment is to raise libraries to acceptable standards. But we are not given any criteria to determine what constitutes acceptable standards. What are they? There is no suggestion whatsoever as to what is an acceptable standard for a library. What is acceptable to the Government, I would suggest, would certainly nol be acceptable to the enlightened countries on this globe, of which this country, in regard to education is certainly not one. The Opposition then goes on to say that in assessing the needs of the schools and in making grants, a schools commission would have to take into account the need to ensure optimum use of resources in the establishment, maintenance and extension of schools. The Opposition does not believe that this is being done now. lt believes that many of the schools are not making the optimum use of resources. We talk about the expense of conducting an education system and the needs of particular schools but we find sometimes 2 schools - a poverty stricken State school and a poverty stricken Catholic parochial school - side by side. This is economically inefficient, lt is not making the best use of resources. These are the matters which should be considered by the schools commission we are seeking to establish. 
In our approach to the Bills which are now before the Senate the fundamental differences between the Government and its supporters and the Australian Labor Party are indicated.  I  am sure that it is highly unlikely that we will convert any honourable senator by the debates that are taking place today. But the Australian Labor Party wishes to use this opportunity to say to the people of Australia that its policy is that every student who is capable of benefiting from an education, whether it is a primary or secondary school education or a teritiary education, should be able to do so under the best possible conditions; that the resources of the community should be mobilised so that they are shared in such a way that the best use is made of those resources; to ensure that we are not wasting those resources on the unnecessary proliferation of schools and systems of schools; and that the needs of the Australian people are taken into account. We are debating now probably one of the most important matters which can be considered by this Parliament, the matter of education. 
I wish to direct a further question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. My question  arises from the answer which was shortly' given by  Senator Wright  to the question asked by  Senator Murphy  in which  Senator Wright  said that il was the view of the Australian Government that no action should be taken by the Australian Government on behalf of  Mr Garfield  Todd and Miss Judith Todd. As the Minister's reply to my earlier question on the same subject was that I should put my question on notice, I ask: Does  Senator Wright  represent the Government's view when he says that the Australian Government believes that no action should be taken? if he does is there therefore any point in leaving my question on the notice paper? 
That would be a judgment that the honourable senator himself would need to make. I told him to put his question on notice.  Senator Wright,  representing the Foreign Minister, gave an answer to the question asked by  Senator Murphy. 
A matter which I think should be recognised by the Senate is that for perhaps the first time the Senate has before it a report on the present situation in the Indian Ocean and the opportunity is given to members of the Senate to debate the problems which confront Australia and other countries in the Indian Ocean region. Naturally the report deals to a very great extent with the problems which the Committee believes result from the intervention of various major powers in the Indian Ocean. There can be no question that a great deal of the discussion which has taken place recently in this country about the Indian Ocean has resulted from allegations about a growing Soviet military presence in the Indian Ocean region. Australia is a country in which a great many people are constantly looking for enemies prepared to invade it and naturally this is producing some of the hysterical reactions which have been so much a feature of debate on Australia's foreign policy throughout the years. I think it would oe quite incorrect and quite valueless if the 
Senate, in debating the situation in the Indian Ocean region, were merely to look at.it from the point of view of the interests of various major powers and were to consider only what will happen as a result of Britain's withdrawal, what will happen as a result of the Soviet allegedly coming and what the United States or China might do in this part of the world. None of those countries is an Indian Ocean country. I believe that it is time that Australia took part in a radical reassessment of its policies towards our neighbours in the Indian Ocean area. 
On the whole, the Indian Ocean region has been one of the quieter regions of the world in past decades. Apart from the conflict which took place in. Indonesia at the time of the gaining of independence by the Indonesians from the Netherlands Government shortly after the Second World War, apart from the events which took place in 1965 when the Government of  Dr Sukarno  was replaced by the present regime in Indonesia and apart from the constant tension which has existed between India and Pakistan since the partition of India in 1947, generally speaking the Indian Ocean region has been much quieter than have been Europe and other parts of Asia. Probably even Latin America has been confronted with more violent upheavals than has the Indian Ocean region. I suggest that we are seeing  a  change in the alignment of forces and in the political development of the Indian Ocean area. I think it would be worth while to look at the present situation in the Indian Ocean area. 
One of the consequences of the relative quietness in the Indian Ocean region is the fact that at present, at least in the African part of the region, are some of the few remaining colonies or countries (hal are administered by white settlers anywhere in the world. Portugal, which is the oldest European empire, still maintains the bulk of its empire there. It still exercises authority over Mozambique on the south eastern coast of Africa. Although Angola is not bounded by the Indian Ocean it is in close proximity to it and it can be said, without an undue stretch of the imagination, to form part of the Indian Ocean area. The Republic of South Africa, although it is not  a  colony of a great power and although I think it would be quite incorrect to describe the white South Africans as other than native born inhabitants of the country in which they live, still exists as a pseudocolonial power in which the whites who represent less than 20 per cent of the population exercise authority over the remainder of the inhabitants of that country - the Africans, the coloured people and the Asians who, according to the last South African census, constitute more than 80 per cent of the population of that country. 
There is still within Rhodesia, the former Southern Rhodesia, which is known to the majority of its inhabitants as Zimbabwe, a regime dominated by fewer than a quarter of a million white settlers who live in that country. It is interesting to note I think that, unlike South Africa, a very large proportion of the white inhabitants of Rhodesia are not native born Rhodesians but are quite recent immigrants from Britain, South Africa and Greece in particular and from some other countries as well. 
The majority of the countries adjoining the Indian Ocean are still confronted by problems of colonialism which, at least in that form, have disappeared from other parts of the world. The existence of the present Nationalist regime in South Africa, the existence of the colonial power in the Portuguese provinces in south Africa and the minority regime in Rhodesia colour the behaviour and the thinking of African people in adjoining countries. Throughout Africa people are concerned that their fellow Africans are deprived of normal civil rights. There cannot be any doubt that there is a continuing tension throughout Africa, which is reflected throughout the whole of the Indian Ocean region, because of the continuance of colonial regimes in Africa. 
Recently there has been a most dramatic development on the Indian sub-continent. Pakistan, a new country which came into existence only in 1947  -  it is still less than one quarter of a century old - has split apart and the majority of the inhabitants of the former East Pakistan have constituted a new state known as Bangla Desh which is recognised already by a number of world powers. Australia has already recognised Bangla Desh as an independent country and Bangla Desh has applied for membership of the Commonwealth of Nations. 
Until the outbreak of the Second World War the Indian Ocean could almost have been regarded as a British lake. The present India, Pakistan and Ceylon as well as the present Malaysia and Singapore were parts of the British Empire. Along the east coast of Africa there were British colonies - the old Tanganyika, Zanzibar, Kenya. Rhodesia and Nyasaland. At the southern extremity of the Indian Ocean were Australia and the former Union of South Africa, both of which were members of the then British Commonwealth and both of which generally followed, at least so far  ils  foreign policy was concerned, the policies of the British Government. 
The only other major centre of population in the Indian Ocean at that time was Indonesia which, until the Japanese invasion in 1941-42, was part of the Dutch empire. It was the Netherlands East Indies. Very dramatic changes have taken place there. Indonesia has achieved its independence. There have been very dramatic changes inside Indonesia since it attained its independence. The government of  Dr Sukarno,  which pursued some kind of left of centre stance by world standards, has been replaced by the government of General Suharto. I think it would be conceded by everybody - whether they are criticising or applauding this fact - that Indonesia now pursues a most conservative right wing policy by Asian standards. 
There certainly have been most dramatic changes in India, Pakistan and Ceylon. The most recent changes are perhaps the most dramatic of all. There has been a serious conflict within Pakistan and, following that, a conflict between Pakistan and India. Perhaps the most impressive or most remarkable feature about the recent conflict in the Indian sub-continent was tha1 no major Western power exercised a decisive influence over what took place. Clearly the closest ally to India in the conflict with Pakistan was the Soviet Union, and clearly the closest ally of Pakistan in the conflict with India was the People's Republic of China. It is interesting that the statements of the Indian Government have indicated the gratitude which it feels lo the Soviet Union for the support which was given by the Soviet Union to India in that conflict. It is interesting also that the first visit overseas by the  President  of Pakistan,  Dr Bhutto,  since the conflict was to the People's Republic of China. So whoever may have been victorious or may have gained anything out of the conflict between India and Pakistan and the establishment of Bangla Desh, from a great power point of view, it certainly was not the United Stales or Britain and it certainly was not Australia. We now find that India is even much more closely aligned with the Soviet Union than it was before the conflict took place, and the Government of Pakistan, although  now  exercising authority only over what was formerly West Pakistan, is much more closely allied with China than it was before this conflict took place. 1 do  Dot  believe that we should look on the peoples of the Indian Ocean, as we have done so frequently in the past, as being minions or pawns to be pushed around by great powers. What is becoming increasingly evident is that the people of the various countries in the whole Indian Ocean area are struggling for their independence and obtaining their independence, and they are exercising their own policies without direction from foreign powers. Whatever assistance was given by the Soviet Union or the People's Republic of China to the differing parties iri the India-Pakistan conflict, I do not think that anybody, not even the most hysterical anti-Communist, could say that either the Soviet Union or the People's Republic of China was responsible for what happened. What happened in Bangla Desh was a result of a popular uprising by the majority of the people within the former East Pakistan. 
The actions which the Indians took and the actions which were taken by the Government of Pakistan were taken by those governments as a result of the exercise of their own judgment. Whether they exercised their judgment correctly or incorrectly is another matter, but they certainly were not acting as the puppets or the pawns of any major power. Therefore to go on talking about the Soviet military presence or the Chinese military presence, as supporters of the Australian Government so often do, is to ignore completely what in fact is taking place in the Indian Ocean area. What is taking place  in  the Indian Ocean area is a movement of the people inside that area without direction from other countries. J think this has beet), shown also in Indonesia. Whether one welcomes or deplores the changi; that look p!:tce when  Dr Sukarno  was replaced as  President  by General Suharto and although it could noi be denied that there were major powers that were very concerned about what was happening and were doing their best to exercise influence in Indonesia, what happened in Indonesia was an internal Indonesian conflict which was resolved, correctly or incorrectly, by Indonesians. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, concerns Bangla Desh and falls into 2 parts. Is the Government aware of an application reported to have been made by the Government of Bangla Desh to join the Commonwealth of Nations? If so, what is the present position of the application and what action, if any, has the Australian Government taken on it? The second part of the question is: Will the Australian Government use whatever means it can to influence the Government of Bangla Desh to protect the lives of the members of the non-Bengali minority population in Bangla Desh? 
It would be a waste of time and energy to enter into a debate with  Senator Webster.  Part of what he just said is indicative of the attitude of mind of a number of supporters of the Government. It is that in order to protect the law one needs to say that on every occasion members of the police force are correct and members of the public who have a confrontation with the police force are incorrect. Of course, this is not the case, as has been shown quite recently in Victoria where, if  Senator Webster's  logic and the logic of those who sit on the same side of the Senate with him had been followed, there would not have been any royal commission into the abortion scandal. There would not have been the prosecution of those senior officers of the Victoria Police Force who were subsequently convicted. If anything is the hallmark of the police state it is the attitude that the police can do no wrong; that the police should not be subject to law and that in any dispute the word of a policeman has to be taken in preference to that of a private citizen. 
What we are saying in (his case, and what  Senator Douglas  McClelland has said, is that there is a very clear conflict of view* as to what occurred, if one take account of what the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  said tonight, between  Mrs Matteson  and the members of the Commonwealth Police Force. It is significant to note - probably it was the most important part of the letter read out by  Senator Douglas  McClelland - that passage in  Mrs Matteson's  letter in which she said that, she had telephoned the New South Wales police in order to complain about the presence of the Commonwealth Police officers without, possession of a warrant. This is not the son of claim that someone would make, I imagine - unless the complainant were completely demented - unless it actually occurred. 
There have been some snide little interjections about people setting up plants - too contemptible to be discussed - coming from  Senator Rae  and others, but surely no plant was involved in this instance. If those Commonwealth police had arrived with warrants only a lunatic would call up the State police and complain about their presence, saying that they did not have warrants if in fact they had them and produced them to the lady in question. 
What I find very significant about the attitude adopted consistently by the Attorney-General on these matters is that he shows, I believe, contempt for the law itself. His approach once again is the same. It is hardly more sophisticated than  thi  approach of  Senator Webster  - perhaps slightly more sophisticated. The AttorneyGeneral's approach in effect is that the police can do no wrong. I believe that in doing this he is being contemptuous of the law. If one wishes to have respect for the law one does not get it by allowing, for example, those Victorian police officers who were recently convicted because of their part in the abortion scandals in Victoria to go free and act as senior police officers. If we want respect for the law" and enforcement of the law we have to have a society in which the people are satisfied that the conduct of police officers is subject to the same scrutiny as the conduct of any other public servants. This is something which the Attorney-General resists consistently. If any complaint is made about any officer of the Commonwealth Police Force the attitude of the AttorneyGeneral invariably is that the Commonwealth police can do no wrong and he will make no inquiry into the allegations. If there is a clear dispute between the evidence of a Commonwealth police officer and that of a private citizen the AttorneyGeneral will ignore the matter completely or come down in favour of the Commonwealth police. This 1 believe creates disrespect for the law. If one talks about law and order in any meaningful way and does not just mean thuggery on behalf of the Government by its employees, one has to inculcate respect for the law. 
If I could digress for a moment, I believe it is very difficult to have much respect for some officers of the Commonwealth Police Force. I was not visited by them on Christmas Day but 1 was visited by them on Boxing Day, 1970. I was visited by 2 police officers who arrived at about 7.30 or 8 o'clock in the morning on the day after Christmas. They asked me some most inane questions - 1 do not think they can be described as anything but inane questions - about the authorship of an advertisement concerning the National Service Act which appeared in various newspapers. 1 persisted with some questions asking what the Government proposed to do about this. The grinning Attorney-General knows full well that nothing is going to be done about it. 
But what happened on that occasion? I believe there can be no doubt that the Commonwealth police, under the direction of the then Attorney-General or the present Attorney-General, or perhaps acting on their own volition, decided to intimidate a number of people. It is not a very pleasant think to be visited by the Commonwealth police and asked about some political activities in which you have engaged. Of course, there has been no follow-up of that matter. I would be quite prepared to challenge the Attorney-General to prosecute mc as a result of those matters which caused the Commonwealth Police to visit my home early in the morning of the day after Christmas. I would be very happy to be prosecuted by the Attorney-General for this so that we can show whether he and the Commonwealth Police are really setting out to ascertain information for the purposes of prosecution or whether they are engaging in political intimidation of citizens. 
I return to the matter that has been raised, and very rightly so, by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. I do not know  Mrs Matteson  nor do I know her son. Very serious charges have been made by her concerning the conduct of the Commonwealth Police in various respects, and in one particular respect relating to the phone call she mentioned she made to the New South Wales State police. This gives an opportunity to the Attorney-General or to anybody else who wishes to investigate it to study the veracity of the letter which she wrote. 1 believe it shows contempt for law and order in any democratic meaning of the expression 'law and order' for the AttorneyGeneral to brush this matter off arbitrarily and say that if the Commonwealth Police did it that is good enough for him and whatever any private citizen said that is in conflict with the Commonwealth Police version the Attorney-General is going to ignore it. 
I think that at this stage one should repeat the terms of the motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  because I fail, and I think that anyone would fail, to detect from what has been said by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  any comprehension on his part of what is meant in the motion that has been moved.  Senator Murphy's  motion states: 
That  Senator Greenwood  has dishonoured the office  of Attorney-General: 
by making prejudicial statements about one Barry Johnston who has been charged but not yet tried on an information alleging a breach of the National Service Act, and 
by involving the office of Attorney-General in a party political controversy in connection with that pending criminal case. 

 Senator Murphy has made very clear what the authorities have, repeatedly pointed out down the years regarding the role of the Attorney-General. The office of AttorneyGeneral is a quasi-judicial office. Nobody disputes that it is a political office; that the Attorney-General is a member of Parliament; that, he is a member of a ministry and that he is normally a member of a political party. But within that framework he does have a very special role. 
That role was elaborated at some length by Lord Simon, a very conservative former Attorney-General of England and later Lord Chancellor of England. He made it perfectly clear in language which 1 think is accepted by all lawyers and by all those who are concerned about the Constitution, that the role of the Attorney-General must be a different role from that of other Ministers; that although the AttorneyGeneral may, and indeed does, comment freely on political matters as they come before the Parliament, he must not allow the intrusion of his political views and the interests of his political Party into the discussion of an offence which any person is alleged to have committed; and that in fact - and this has been pointed out by other distinguished Attorneys-General, not only of England but also of this country - on many occasions the Attorney-General must act as a safeguard of the rights of the citizen against the views of the Cabinet, against the views of the Government and against the views of the political Party of which he is a member. 
What we say on this occasion in this motion is that the present Attorney-General has dishonoured the office of AttorneyGeneral by departing from all the accepted canons of behaviour of Attorneys-General by allowing his office to be used for the purpose of discrediting his political opponents and particularly of discrediting a person who is at present under a charge. I think that the understanding which the Leader of the Government in the Senate has of this matter is indicated in the reply which he gave to  Senator Murphy's  speech in support of the motion.  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson said that  Senator Murphy  had 'pontificated' in quoting the views of other Attorneys-General, of much more distinction than the grinning AttorneyGeneral who sits here at this moment, and of other eminent lawyers. He said that  Senator Murphy  was engaging in legalisms. The word 'legalism' is one. which is often used by people who wish to evade the spirit of the law. They say that something is a legalism. We believe that the right to a fair trial without prejudice is not a legalism but is an essentia] civil right. To say that it is completely incorrect for an AttorneyGeneral to make pronouncements about the guilt of a person who is awaiting trial and to object to this behaviour is no legalism but is a statement of a very deep and important democratic principle about the conduct of society. When it is departed from or when the Attorney-General or some other law officer is allowed to find people guilty without trial, this undermines the very basis of that rule of law about which  Senator Greenwood  trumpets so frequently in this place and elsewhere. 
We have not said that the AttorneyGeneral should not speak on politics or that he should not engage in the day to day controversies, as the Leader of the Government seemed to have understood that we had. We have not said that he should not engage in very heated controversy or that he should not be political. But what we have said is that he should not allow the political opinions which he holds or the political intersts of his Party or of his Government to intrude into matters which come before the courts and in respect of which accused persons are awaiting trial. The proposition which has been put forward elsewhere by .the AttorneyGeneral and now by the Leader of the Government is most interesting. It is that because a person has been accused of some offence and that person happens to be a member of the Labor Party - indeed a Labor Party candidate - members of the Labor Party should be called upon to disown and to repudiate this person and to make derogatory comments about him. Without naming the individual to whom I now wish to refer, I would remind the Senate that just at this time there is a member of the same Party as the AttorneyGeneral, who is a member of a certain State parliament, a man who in the past admitted having engaged in a most flagrant abuse of the law and who is awaiting charge on a serious offence. We do not call on the Government to deny or to repudiate this person who recently was re-endorsed by the Liberal Party and who took his seat in a House of a certain State Parliament. But with equal justice we could do that. We could call on the Government to repudiate this person, but we do not do so. I do not intend to name this person. 
If the Attorney-General were as dedicated to the law as he says he is he would repudiate this Liberal Party member of a certain State Parliament and would call upon the Prime Minister and the Premier of the State in which that man is a member of Parliament to repudiate him. But the Attorney-General does not intend to do it. He does not intend to do it because that man is a member of the political party to which be belongs. So partial is the Attorney-General and so does he dishonour the office of AttorneyGeneral that he intervenes in such matters only when he wishes to discredit members of the Opposition. He does not intervene when the person involved is a member of the political party to which he belongs. 
There are various approaches which people may take to the law. There are those people who say that in all circumstances the law should be obeyed, that there should never be any deviation from the law, that the law itself is the ultimate morality and that every offence which is committed should be prosecuted. That is a substantial point of view, and I think it is a point of view which requires some consideration and some respect. There are other people who take a different point of view. There are others who say that one has to exercise one's moral judgment in approaching any law, that one has to take the consequences of one's actions but that one has not only the right but also the duty to oppose certain laws. If it were not for the fact that people who have played some part in the development of our history and in the development of our law had defied the law we would not have many of the laws - indeed, the most valuable laws - that we have today. If it were not for the fact that the Barons of England had broken the law in 1215 there would not have been a Magna Carta. If it had not been for the Glorious Revolution of 1688 there would not have been the Bill of Rights of 1689. If it had not been for those people who broke the law in the 13 colonies of North America in 1775 there would not have been the Declaration of Independence of 1776 and there would not have been any United States of America established out of the colonial situation in which- the people in that country found themselves at that time. If this Government had not broken international law there would not have been any Australian troops in Vietnam and this matter would have never come before the Federal Parliament. 
That is one view which is taken, and I think it is a view which is taken quite often by members of the Party sitting opposite. I remember that in my late adolescence one of the heroes of the Liberal Party in 1949 was, I think, Bill Dargan. Day after day we used to hear about the heroic Bill Dargan. No doubt  Senator Willesee  will recall him. I think his name was mentioned frequently when  Senator Willesee  was first a candidate for the Senate. Bill Dargan's great achievement was that he was a butcher in a provincial town in Queensland who refused to do what the law required him to do with his ration cards. The hero of the Liberal Party was a man who defied this terrible oppressive law in relation to meat rationing. I did not hear anybody from the Liberal Party repudiating him. I do not hear  Senator Greenwood  saying: 'We have reformed. We have disowned that terrible past when we supported heroic Bill Dargan, the man who would not fill in his ration cards'. 
I can remember another episode. This occurred in the period after the introduction of the Banking Act of 1947, when the late  Sir Frank  Clarke, who was a leading Liberal Party member of the Victorian Legislative Council and a member of the Board of the National Bank of Australasia, which is a very respectable law abiding body, made certain statements. What did the Honourable  Sir Frank  Clarke, M.L.C., have to say at that time? He called on young, spirited, democratically minded men to resist, physically if need be, the shocking, communist socialist laws of the Labor Government of that time which was proposing to nationalise banks. Of course, the Liberal Party does not repudiate anything of that nature. 
But if we accept that  Senator Greenwood  does hold to the philosophy that the law must always and in all circumstances be obeyed, that everybody who has committed any offence must be charged with that offence, that the full majesty and all the resources of the law must be used to bring these lawbreakers before the courts, what about the 1 1 ,000 other people who have not complied with the National Service Act? Why are they not brought before the courts? Can the Attorney-General answer that? Is it not a fact that those people who are charged with breaches of the National Service Act are almost invariably those people who have publicly and politically declared their opposition to the National Service Act? Is it not a fact that the Attorney-General and his predecessor and members of this Government have used breaches of the National Service Act to single out and victimise individual persons, particularly members of the Australian Labor Parry, but have let the other thousands and thousands go untouched? 
This is not the first time the AttorneyGeneral has raised matters of this nature. Apparently the Attorney-General is someone who is wedded to the letter and the spirit of the law, or so he constantly tells us. But why does he not inquire, if he does not already know, what are the functions of an Attorney-General? He has deliberately used his office to discredit this man Johnston before he comes to trial. He has accused him of committing an offence, and I believe that what that offence is is quite irrelevant. As  Senator Murphy  has pointed out, it was a national scandal in the United States when  President  Nixon made comments about the guilt of Charles Manson who was engaged with other persons in a most diabolical series of murders in California. The people who were criticising  President  Nixon for what he did on that occasion were not saying that they had some sympathy for Manson or that, if what Manson and the other persons who were accused with him were alleged to have done had in fact been done, it was somehow to be commended or at least not to be criticised. They were saying that the  President  of the United States should not presume to judge the guilt of a person who had not been convicted. It is a basic principle of our democracy, and of the democracy of the United States, whatever weaknesses there may be in the United States - there are myriad weaknesses in the United States - that there is a rule of law to be followed, and the  President  of the United States and the Attorney-General of the United States would never dream of doing the sorts of things, except by inadvertence as I believe was the case in relation to  President  Nixon's comments, that this Attorney-General has done since he has held this office. When  President  Nixon was challenged about what he had said about Manson he did not say: 'Those people who are criticising me are sympathisers of Manson'. He apologised. He admitted that he had made a mistake. That, if nothing else, shows the difference between the moral fibre of Nixon and that of a man like  Senator Greenwood. 

 Senator Greenwood talks about the letter and the spirit of the law, but there is nobody who has done more to undermine respect for the law and undermine the rule of law in this country than he has done individually and personally since he has occupied this high office, which is that of the highest, law officer in the Commonwealth of Australia. This is not the first time that he has done this, if I may remind the Senate. On 23rd November last he did precisely the same sort of thing. In one instance what he did was even more ludicrous. In the course of a debate he said: 
We find  Mr Crawford, President  of the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Party, going into places where the police are not permitted because he is making common cause with the resisters.  Mr Hartley,  the former Victorian Secretary of the ALP and the Victorian representative of the ALP Federal Executive, was demonstrating outside the Melbourne City Court last week with a draft resister. 
The Attorney-General said these things about  Mr Hartley  while  Mr Hartley  was awaiting trial on a related offence. The Attorney-General, this upholder of the rule of law and order, used his high office in order to discredit  Mr Hartley,  in order to impugn the motives and the conduct of  Mr Hartley  while he was awaiting trial. Not only did he do this, he also talked about  Mr Crawford  entering these premises where the. police were not allowed. As my colleague  Senator Poyser  was able to point out, in fact  Mr Crawford  already had been charged with that offence and acquitted. So casual is the Attorney-General in his approach to the truth, so casual is the Attorney-General in his approach to justice, so casual is the Attorney-General in his approach to the spirit of the rule of law, so imbued with fanaticism for selfadvancement and for the denigration of the Australian Labor movement is the AttorneyGeneral that not only does he set out to discredit people who are awaiting trial but also he falsely maligns in this Parlia- meat people who have been tried already and acquitted, and never once do we find sufficient character in the man to apologise for it. 
I think it should be pointed out that this is an important motion. This is not a frivolous motion. This is not the normal political type of motion. We. have had disagreements with the Leader of the Government in the Senate; we have had disagreements with  Senator Wright;  we have had disagreements with  Senator Cotton;  we have had disagreements with  Senator Drake-Brockman,  but we have not moved a motion relating to  Senator Cotton,  for example, claiming that he has dishonoured the office of Minister for Civil Aviation. We do not believe that he has dishonoured the office of Minister for Civil Aviation, whatever disagreements on policy we have had with him. This is a specific motion directed against an Attorney-General who is dishonouring his office. Not only is he dishonouring his office, he is dishonouring also the law of this country, this Parliament and even this country itself. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise. Is it a fact that the Commonwealth Film Censor has banned for showing to persons other than members of the medical profession a film entitled 'Beyond Conception', which was to have been shown in Perth tonight by the Abortion Law Repeal Association? Will the Minister make a statement to the Senate as to the reasons for the Commonwealth Film Censor banning this film? 
asked the Minis ter representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Will the Australian Government inform the British Government of the concern felt in this country at the imprisonment and solitary confinement imposed by the Rhodesian Government on the former Prime Minister of Southern Rhodesia,  Mr Garfield  Todd, and his daughter, Judith Todd. 
Will the Australian Government use whatever influence it has in an effort to prevent the continued persecution of  Mr Garfield  Todd, Miss Judith Todd, and other political opponents of the Rhodesian Government. 
I take it,  Mr President,  that the Senate will be dealing with both this Bill and the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill 1972. 
 I move: 
At end of motion add -  but the Senate is of opinion that the Bill should provide - 
for the provision of a Commission of 3 members of the Commonwealth Teaching Service, one of whom shall be elected by teachers; 
for the heightening of professional standards of teachers in the Commonwealth Teaching Service by empowering the Commission to negotiate for the establishment of faculties of education in universities where necessary, including the Australian National University; 
for the active encouragement of recruitment and training of teaching staff, not only for Papua New Guinea should it desire this assistance, but for other islands of the Pacific the governments of which seek such aid; 
for the provision of an advisory council to assist the Commission, this council to be representative of the community and of educational research and administrative bodies; and 
for leave for pregnancy in conformity with the International Labor Organisation recommendation and also to provide generous leave in event of difficult pregnancies or m event of a disability of the infant which requires the mother's attention for a period after the birth.' 
In addition to the motion which I have just moved it is proposed that in the Committee stage other amendments will be moved. To a very large extent they will conform with the principles which are contained in the amendment to the motion That the Bill be now read a second time'. This Bill is a significant measure because, for the first time in the history of this country, it provides for the establishment of a Commonwealth Teaching Service. This is the first time that there will be an educational service with teachers directly under the control of and organised by the Commonwealth Government. In the past teachers have been employed by the Commonwealth and the Commonwealth has been responsible for the staffing of the schools, particularly in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. In addition teachers employed by the Commonwealth have been engaged in other duties. It has not been a Commonwealth teaching service which has had responsibility. 
In the Australian Capital Territory the New South Wales Government has provided the teachers by virtue of an agreement between the Commonwealth and that Government, and in the Northern Territory, at least until recently, the South Australian Education Department provided the teachers. There have been teachers in Papua New Guinea also, but not constituted in the manner which is envisaged by this Bill which provides for the establishment of a national teaching service to be known as the Commonwealth Teaching Service. As far as this goes, the Australian Labor Party certainly does not oppose the provisions of the Bill. 
The Australian Labor Party does believe that it is desirable that there be a Commonwealth Teaching Service and that there is a special role which the Commonwealth can play in education which may be assisted by the establishment of such a service. The existence of a Commonwealth Teaching Service will enable the Commonwealth to provide teachers in Papua New Guinea until such time as that Territory achieves its independence. Indeed, we hope that after Papua New Guinea has achieved its independence this Commonwealth Teaching Service will be able, if the people of Papua New Guinea desire it, to assist in the establishment of their school system and their education department. As is expressed in paragraph (c) of the amendment, it also is hoped by the Australian Labor Party that the functions of the Commonwealth Teaching Service will be extended so that assistance may be provided by the Commonwealth of Australia to other countries in the Pacific area which, in many instances, are still in a rather rudimentary stage in the development of their education systems and may look to this country to give some assistance at some time in the future. 
The most significant objection which the Australian Labor Party has to the Bill is to the manner in which the new Commonwealth Teaching Service will be administered. The Bill provides that there shall be a Commissioner of the Commonwealth Teaching Service - a single commissioner. lt is our view that it is quite improper for a service as important as this one to be conducted without any representation upon its governing body of the people who are actively engaged in the profession or occupation which will be governed by that body. We agree with the submissions of the Australian Teachers Federation that the teachers themselves should have at least a representative on any body created to manage this Commonwealth Teaching Service. 
As my colleague,  Mr Beazley,  said in the course of the debate in another place, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation has taken decisions to the effect that there should be representation of teachers on the governing bodies of education services. For that reason and in order to provide for this representation, paragraph (a) of our amendment suggests that the Bill should provide for the establishment of a commission of 3 members of the Commonwealth Teaching Service, one of whom shall be elected by teachers. The reason why this provision is in our amendment is that, if there is to be teacher representation, obviously there has to be a commission. We are not suggesting that the single commissioner should be an elected representative of the teachers. But we do believe that there should be teacher representation. In order to provide for that representation, there needs to be a commission rather than a commissioner. We believe that it is not an unreasonable proposition to suggest that, in the circumstances, there should be a commission of 3 members, of whom the teaching represenatative would still be in a minority, with people representing other interests in the service maintaining a majority on the commission. 
Yes. As  Senator Douglas  McClelland interjects, certainly we believe that the voice of the teachers should be heard in the highest body governing this newly constituted service. 
As was said in the debate which concluded recently, when the Commonwealth establishes a national organisation or engages in legislation relating to matters which are dealt with by the States also, it oan well be accepted that what is being done by the Commonwealth does establish a precedent for the States and that it does set up certain national standards of what we believe ought to be the case throughout the whole of Australia. As it would seem fairly obvious to all of us that the role of the Commonwealth Teaching Service will expand over the years, it is our view that, at the earliest possible stage, steps should be taken to see that there is a properly constituted commission to control the activities of the Commonwealth Teaching Service. 
If I may say so, the views of the Australian Teachers Federation have been rejected by the Government without any great attention having been given to them in the second reading speech of the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Beyond his saying that he was not convinced by the arguments of the Federation, I have not found any substantial arguments which have been put forward by the Minister as to why the views of the Federation should not be accepted. One could scarcely imagine that any other authority of this nature would be created by this Government without representation being given to the people who are engaged in the profession or occupation which most significantly forms part of the enterprise. One cannot imagine a wool commission without representatives of wool growers. One cannot imagine any authority to deal with wheat without representatives of wheat growers. With respect to the Australian Honey Board, provision is made for representatives of the apiarists to sit on that Board. 

 - Senator Withers* argument - it is one of which I hope all the teachers of Australia will take note as this is apparently the ideology of the Liberal Party on this question - is that apiarists ought to be on the Australian Honey Board and that wool growers ought to be represented on the Australian Wool Commission, but teachers have no right to be represented on a teaching commission because they do not own the product. I doubt whether the Minister for Education and Science would have wished  Senator Withers  to say what he just said; I do not think that he would be very proud of it. But these remarks do represent the subconscious attitudes of the Liberal Party, namely, that the teachers do not own the schools, so they are not entitled to representation, and that the teachers are only people who work in the schools. As far as the Liberal Party is concerned, unless they actually own the schools they should not have any representation on a commission. I thank  Senator Withers  for, I think quite inadvertently and certainly without any consultation with his Minister, having given us a very clear insight into the real reasons which have motivated the Government in coming forward with this proposition. 

 - Senator Withers goes on to ask: 'What about parents?' Well, indeed, what about parents? If  Senator Withers  is so concerned about parents, I assume that at some later stage he will be moving that a commission be established on which there would be a representative of parents. I can assure him here and now that, if he is anxious that parents should be represented upon an Australian teaching commission, the Australian Labor Party will be right behind him when he moves his amendment to that effect. We will be right behind him every inch of the way. We look forward eagerly to later this evening hearing  Senator Withers  propose an amendment that parents should be represented on a commission. This is completely in line with our own policy. I thank  Senator Withers  very much for this suggestion. We are looking forward to the proposition coming from him. 
Where is what? 
We realise how constrained  Senator Withers  is to have parents on a commission. We are waiting to hear him. He has raised the question of the representation of parents. We look forward to  Senator Withers  moving the appropriate amendment. What we are talking about is the representation of teachers.  Senator Withers  has said that, as teachers do not own schools, they should not have any say in the management of schools and that only those people who have private personal property are entitled to any say in the running of this country. That is the point of view of  Senator Withers.  We repudiate this view. We shall take good care to see that the Australian Teachers Federation is acquainted with  Senator Withers'  views and that it is made quite clear to them that this is the reason why they are being excluded from representation in the establishment of this Service. 
Sitting suspended from 5.4S to  8  p.m. 
Before the suspension for dinner I was outlining the approach of the Labor Party as expressed in paragraph (a) of the amendment I have moved. We believe that a commission of the Commonwealth Teaching Service should consist of 3 members, one of whom should be elected by teachers.  Senator Withers  interjected to explain the Liberal Party's position on the difference between the proposed commission and bodies such as, for example, the Australian Wool Commission. Honourable senators may note that the structure of the proposed commission is quite rare by the standards normally found in Australia; that is, the members of the occupation to be governed by this commission are unrepresented upon it. Apiarists are represented on the Honey Board; wool growers are represented on the Australian Wool Commission; wheat farmers are represented by the Australian Wheat Board, and so on. 

 Senator Withers explained by way of interjection that the Liberal Parry's position is that the proposed commission is different because the apiarists, wool growers and wheat growers have a financial interest as the owners of property and therefore are entitled to representation; but as the teachers of Australia do not own the property in the schools in which they teach, they should not be represented on the commission. 
Paragraph (b) of the amendment calls for the heightening of the professional standards of teachers in the Commonwealth Teaching Service by empowering the commission to negotiate for the establishment of faculties of education in universities where necessary, including the Australian National University. It is the opinion of the Labor Party that education ought to be regarded, if it is not so regarded, as a profession; that the people engaged in teaching in the primary and secondary schools of this country are performing one of the most valuable occupations within the community; and that there ought to be a level of expertise possessed by teachers at least equal to the expertise which is required of lawyers, doctors, architects and members of other learned professions. It is our view that one way that this result can be achieved is by the Commonwealth's taking care to see that in all universities there are faculties of education so that a systematic academic course of study in the principles and practice of education may be given by qualified persons, in the same way that when a person wishing to become a civil engineer- normally enters a school of engineering in a university; a person wishing to become a lawyer joins a law school in a university; and a person wishing to become a doctor enters a medical school. 
The Australian Labor Party welcomes the proposition that the Commonwealth Teaching Service should provide teachers for Papua New Guinea. This country has a very great responsibility to the people of Papua New Guinea. We have held part of the Territory, first under mandate from the League of Nations and then under trust from the United Nations. We have held the other part, the former Territory of Papua, under our jurisdiction for over 80 years. We believe that we have a responsibility to ensure that there are adequately trained people to administer the Territory which, within a few years at the longest, from whichever point of view one looks at it, Will be obtaining if not independence at least self government. 
It is essential that when Papua New Guinea obtains self government, or indeed, while it is on the road to self government, it have people who are competent and properly qualified to administer the many complex tasks which must be undertaken in a developing country. But we believe we should go further. Australia occupies a special position in the South Pacific area in which we live. We are the largest relatively advanced country in the area. A number of smaller adjoining countries are mentioned in more detail in the amendment which I propose to move subsequently at the Committee stage. Australia, from not only the point of view of humanity but also from the point of view of self interest, should play a role in encouraging and assisting these people in their development, if they wish us to do so. 
We are not suggesting that there ought to be some sort of colonialist or neocolonialist relationship between Australia and the smaller developing countries in the Pacific. We believe that if those countries seek assistance from Australia, Australia should be in a position to provide it. One of the most important ways in which we can assist these developing countries is by the provision of adequately trained teachers to help in the development of their educational services. For that reason we feel that the Commonwealth Teaching Service should recruit teaching staff not only for service in Papua New Guinea but also for service in the other islands of the Pacific when the governments of those islands seek our aid. 
We also believe that as education is a concern of practically everybody in the community there should be in addition to the commission to which we have already referred an advisory council to assist the commission in its deliberations. Various statutory bodies already have such advisory councils. I refer, for example, to the Australian Broadcasting Commission which, both nationally and in the States, has advisory committees on all sorts of matters. No matter how important those matters are, it would seem that they are not as important as the matter of a national education service.  Senator Withers  indicated earlier that he was concerned about the fact that parents are not to be represented upon the commission of the Common wealth Teaching Service. It could well be that on the advisory council that we propose there would be representation of teachers and other groups of people, of the already existing organised bodies of citizens throughout the country who have an interest in education. 
We are not saying that a body such as this should have power to determine the policy of the service. We say that the commission of the Commonwealth Teaching Service should have available for consultation an advisory council consisting of representatives of the citizen's groups in Australia who are concerned with the problems of education, including its future. Paragraph (e) of the proposed amendment calls for the provision in the Bill of leave for pregnancy in conformity with the International Labour Organisation recommendation and also generous leave in the event of difficult pregnancies or in the event of the disability of an infant which requires the mother's attention for a period after the birth. We are seeking to do more than to secure the practical adoption by Australia of one of the important decisions of the International Labour Organisation. Many such decisions have been ignored by this Government. 
We feel that, this proposition should be supported particularly in respect of teachers, because there are a great many women teachers and considerable hardship is inflicted upon them at present in many instances because of problems resulting from their having children. Hardship is inflicted not only upon them but also upon the whole education system. Their services are lost to the education systems of this country. We believe that the Commonwealth should give a lead in this Bill, which establishes for the first time a Commonwealth Teaching Service, by making provision for women teachers who may well become pregnant and who could well be involved in quite serious problems with their infant children after the birth. They should not be precluded from taking their places in the teaching services of the Commonwealth; at the same time the Commonwealth Teaching Service should not be damaged by the loss of their services for these reasons. 
I believe, all of the matters I have put forward are of considerable importance, but the most important part of the proposition which is contained in our amendment is for the alteration of the existing proposal that there should be only one Commissioner administering the Commonwealth Teaching Service to the establishment of a commission which we suggest should comprise 3 members. One member of this commission of 3 should be a representative elected by the teachers employed by the Service. As I have indicated already, in saying this we are carrying out the wishes of the Australian Teachers Federation and we are acting in conformity with the recommendations of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation and various other international bodies which have stated repeatedly over past years that it is essential in the conduct of an efficient and worthwhile teaching service that teachers themselves should be represented on the administration. I commend this amendment to the Senate. 
I wish to speak briefly about some of the matters referred to by  Senator Rae  and also to raise some other matters relating to episodes of the attempted takeover by Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd of Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. I think it is important that this matter should be investigated by a Senate committee not only for the reasons put forward already by the mover of the motion  (Senator Gair)  and by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  but also because I believe there are some quite fundamental questions to be considered involving the ownership of Australian industry and the manner in which that ownership is acquired as a result of recent developments on the conflict between the board of TNT and the board of ATI. 
I agree with  Senator Rae  that a number of these matters could be dealt with elsewhere if there were a national supervisory body to deal with operations on the securities markets, but there is no such authority at the present time. Accordingly, if there is to be any investigation of this matter as it relates to the present situation with which we are faced it will have to be done by the Committee to which the motion suggests that it be referred. Apparently  Senator Rae,  speaking on behalf of the Government, and  Senator Byrne,  believe that these matters may be considered and probably would be considered by the Committee when the reference does take place. Nonetheless I believe that some attention should be drawn to some of them. This present confrontation is of considerable importance to Australia for at least 2 reasons. One of them is the fact that on the outcome of the present conflict depends the ownership of the Australian transport industry. I do not wish to comment on its merits but if TNT is successful in its takeover offer we will find that consolidated in the hands of one group, the board of TNT, will be the direction of a very large, preponderant sector of the Australian transport industry, involving planes, trucks and ships. In fact there will be very little privately owned transport of any significance not in the hands of the conglomerate giant which will emerge as a result of a takeover of Ansett Transport Industries by the Thomas Nationwide Transport group. 
The other matter also of great importance is the fact that at present $35. 8m is still owing by Ansett Transport Industries on loans guaranteed by the Commonwealth. Privately owned assets which somebody is attempting to buy are not the only things involved in this matter. Also involved is a very considerable direct interest on the part of the Australian Government and the Australian people amounting to $35.8m. There can be no doubt that the resources which have been available to Ansett Transport Industries for the borrowing of funds were increased considerably by the fact that the Commonwealth guaranteed these loans amounting to $35.8m. 
I believe that in some respects this conflict is very alarming. At an early stage in the present crisis a statement was attributed to  Mr Thomas.  He was alleged to have said: The name of the game is money, money, money'. He subsequently was reported as having denied that. But in this morning's Melbourne 'Age' he was reported as saying that he did not say: The name of the game is money, money, money'. In his own words, what he said was: "The name of the game is money, money, money, money - money is the name of the game*. He is reported also as saying: 'But I only said that because Peter was speaking at the time and I wanted to make myself heard'. Whatever the reason for this strange repetition of the word 'money', even if it were only used once I think this should be rather alarming to the Senate and to all Australians. Whoever is going to direct a very substantial sector of the transport of Australia, I would have thought that one of the primary concerns of air transport would be safety, safety, safety, not money, money, money. As a frequent air traveller I feel quite strongly about this although I do not normally patronise Ansett Transport Industries, whoever the shareholders are. In any event, however worthy a citizen  Mr Thomas  may be, and however worthy the other persons involved may be, I do not think that money, money, money ought to be the primary concern of the Australian people in this matter. 
Another matter concerning the operations of Thomas Nationwide Transport which should give some concern is the recent issue of 6 million additional shares in that .company. If there were a securities and exchange commission in Australia it could investigate this matter. I believe , that this should be looked into by the Senate committee when the matter is referred to it. It would be very interesting to learn how the 6 million new shares in Thomas Naionwide Transport were distributed to the purchasers of those shares. Can we be confident that there was nothing in the nature of insider trading? What rights did the existing shareholders of TNT have to the purchase of these shares? Was there any privileged access by any persons to the 6 million shares issued by TNT as part of this, takeover bid? Which persons were advised that they were available for sale? What preferences were given, if any, to any persons who wished to acquire these shares? . 
I am not trying to suggest that there is anything unusual about the conduct of TNT in comparison with that of ATI. If we look at ATI we also find some rather strange developments. On 26th March there appeared in the Sunday 'Australian' a report of an interview with  Sir Reginald  Ansett and I have seen no contradiction by  Sir Reginald  of what was stated.  Sir Reginald  was asked by his interviewer something to this effect: 'What about a TNT man on the board of ATI?' The report states': . 
I put people on the board', said  Sir 'Reginald  Ansett emphatically. 
This is probably true. I dare say that  Sir Reginald  does put people on and off the board. At the same time I think that we should look at a public company., which receives many millions of dollars in loans guaranteed by the Government when: such a strange and autocratic procedure 'is adopted in its administration. One person, the  Chairman  of Ansett Transport Industries, is able to say: '1 put people "on the board*. My understanding of the Companies Act is that people are put on a board by elections of shareholders, not by  Sir Reginald  Ansett or any other individual. I think it is disturbing that there is such blatant sole personal control of a large national enterprise, as  Sir Reginald  Ansett said on this occasion. 
 I am aware of that. That is what I am endeavouring to concentrate upon. I regard this as very serious business. When I am seeking guidance as to what business is serious the last person I would look to would be  Senator Wright.  I believe that matters of great national concern have been raised and I hope they will be investigated by this Committee. 
That will save both of us a lot of time. The other matter I wish to refer to with regard to the conduct of Ansett Transport Industries is a statement made on Sunday in the form of a Press release by  Sir Reginald  Ansett. He said that he intended to increase by 50 per cent the dividends paid on shares in Ansett Transport Industries. He said that the matter would be referred to the Board on the following day. Apparently he took it to the Board on the following day. No reports had been made to the Melbourne Stock Exchange or any other stock exchange of the intention stated by the  Chairman  1o double the dividends payable by Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. One might have been justifiably startled had one looked at a list of the directors of Ansett Transport Industries. None other than the  Chairman  of the Melbourne Stock Exchange,  Sir Cecil  Looker, was sitting on that Board which acted precisely as  Sir Reginald  said it would act only the previous day by way of a Press statement. No report whatsoever was made to the Melbourne Stock Exchange. 
Again, just recently, we saw what happened in both Sydney and Melbourne where  Sir Peter  Abeles and various other persons from Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd - to return to that organisation - approached groups of institutional investors seeking to enlist their support and obtain their money to go into Thomas Nationwide Transport.  Sir Peter  is reported to have given a most eloquent address just recently to a group of some 40 representatives of institutional investors in Melbourne. This was commented upon in a very perceptive article in the 'Australian Financial Review' which asked: 'Are the public less equal than some?' These are matters of very great concern. We are particularly concerned about foreign ownership which already exists and which is increasing in Thomas Nationwide Transport. Such ownership could play an important part in any merged company. Indeed, as the amendment and the motion indicate this matter should be investigated insofar as it applies to Ansett Transport Industries. But seriously problems affect the whole of our economy, our transport services and the financial system of Australia. These are important matters which should come before the Committee. I trust that the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Murphy  will be carried. 

 Senator COTTON (New South Wales - Minister for Aviation) - by leave - I shall say one or two things quite briefly because I think this will aid the process of discussion. Regardless of any outcome of this motion safety will not be compromised. That has been said before, it will be said again and it is said now with the greatest possible emphasis. Earlier I thought I might not have a chance to speak again and that is why I asked my colleague,  Senator Rae,  to indicate to the body of the Senate the Government's view of the motion moved on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party and the amendment moved by  Senator Murphy.  I thought it proper that the Senate, as a body, should learn as soon as possible in this sort of discussion the Government's view. That is what we were doing with the kind cooperation of  Senator Rae.  The point made by  Senator Byrne,  of course, will be taken seriously by us and will be kept under constant review. The honourable senator may be sure that the matter is being watched. We felt a slight concern, which we expressed to  Senator Byrne,  regarding the use of the words: 'advise the Minister'. We thought that perhps this could stand a change. We welcome a change. I understand that he and his leader  (Senator Gair)  have some suggestions which they may care to make on this matter. We shall be very happy to hear them. 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General following previous questions concerning the execution of warrants by the Western Australian Police Force. Is he not aware that the Commissioner of Police in Western Australia,  Mr Wedd,  has said that any directions which were given in regard to the execution of Commonwealth warrants were as a result of administrative decisions taken by his department and not as a result of any direction given by the Government? Does the Attorney-General accept  Mr Wedd's  statement or does he believe that  Mr Wedd  is telling an untruth? 
I wish to say a few words about this matter but I hope I do not go to the same laborious and tedious detail as the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood).  The Attorney-General claimed that the letter of the law - they were his words - must be enforced in all cases if there is to be respect for the law. I think all honourable senators know precisely what the Attorney-General means by that. Only within the last week is was clearly disclosed and acknowledged in the Parliament that there had been a breach of the law, in particular a breach of the regulations under the Customs Act, by certain persons at the so-called Rhodesian Information Centre but no prosecution has taken place, and, indeed, no prosecution will take place. We know that the AttorneyGeneral has been to Rhodesia as a guest of the Rhodesian Promotion Council and we know thai when the letter of the law provides for an offence which has been committed by his racist friends in Salisbury he has not the slightest intention of prosecuting them. We know that this Attorney-General, the worst AttorneyGeneral that this country has ever had, is very keen to apply the letter of the law to persons who are just as reluctant as he to .serve in the armed forces in times of conflict but who have the moral courage to publicly state their moral objections. He is very keen to prosecute those persons but shows complete reluctance to prosecute his Rhodesian friends. 
I challenge the Attorney-General here and now. If he is saying to us that the letter of the law must be obeyed in all circumstances I challenge him to announce to us in this Parliament tomorrow when we may expect prosecutions of these persons at the so-called Rhodesian Information Centre. I do not want to engage in nit-picking about this matter of the release of  Mr Cook  to attend studies at the university - studies that were interrupted as a result of this inhuman National Service Act - but 1 will repeat what was said earlier today in the Parliament by way of a question by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Willesee.  He said that some 60 persons in Western Australia have been released by the Prisons Department to engage in their studies. In that State there is a humane government and a humane Comptroller-General of Prisons. 1 understand that only one of those prisoners has committed a breach of the National Service Act but that approximately 60 of them have committed breaches of other laws. I certainly have no intention of apologising for this. I am proud of it and I believe that the people of Western Australia are proud that they have a humane Government and that they do not have a Greenwood-type government - the sort of government which has an 
Attorney-General who hounds young men to go to Vietnam and, if they refuse, hounds them into gaol but refuses to prosecute when an offence is committed by his friends from the Rhodesian Promotion Council. The other matter which I believe exposes the Attorney-General for the sordid, dishonourable person that he is relates to the matters concerning the instructions given to the Western Australian police. 
1 ask the Minister representing the Minister for the 
Interior: Why was the meeting of members of the Miners Federation which was held outside Parliament House today attended by policemen with cameras who took photographs of those present at the meeting? What is to be done with the photographs? Why should these citizens be treated as criminals or potential criminals? 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that the  President  of the United States will make a statement on United States policy on Vietnam at 1 p.m. tomorrow, Australian time? Has the Australian Government been informed of the substance of  Mr Nixon's  statement or has it been consulted as to future United States policy on the war in Vietnam? 
Obviously any communication between the  President  of the United States and the Prime Minister is not a matter for discussion at question time. 
I wish to return to the matter which has been raised this evening by  Senator Murphy.  I do not intend to get into a discussion about the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Party, although there would be occasions when I would be prepared to debate that in the same way as I would be very interested to have a discussion about the resignations within 1 month of 2 State leaders of the Liberal Party,  Mr Steele  Hall in South Australia and  Mr Bethune  in Tasmania. I would be very happy also to debate the creation of a new break-away Liberal movement in South Australia. I would be happy to debate the recent resignation of the Western Australian State  President  and State Secretary of the Australian Democratic Labor Party and many members of the executive of that party. I would be happy to discuss the charge made by the former State Secretary of the DLP,  Mr Martyr,  who was previously State Secretary of the National Civic Council, that he had been removed from his office by the 
Federal Executive of the DLP because  Mr Charlie  Court, the State  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party, had been to the Federal Executive of the DLP and had asked it to freeze funds because  Mr Martyr  and the State Branch of the DLP were running dead against the ALP. 
All these matters would be very interesting to debate. I am sure that we could have a most fruitful discussion on them. But I do not want to debate the matter involving  Mr Martyr  and the DLP for one reason: I believe that it is sub judice. It would be sub judice because the officials of the State Branch of the DLP have issued a writ against  Mr Martyr,  their former Secretary. It would be most improper for us to canvass the merits of their dispute. Indeed, I think that it would be unsportsmanlike to canvass the unfortunate predicament in which  Mr Steele  Hall and  Mr Bethune  have found themselves over the past month. 
I would like to return to the matter that has been raised this evening by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy).  It has arisen from some articles which appeared in the 'National U the organ of the students of the Australian National University, and also from some documents which we endeavoured to table. I would have thought that if the Government or the DLP had any serious interest in the matter they would have been very happy to see us table the documents relating to a meeting of an organisation known as Peace with Freedom. It has been said, quite erroneously, by the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  that the documents are anonymous documents. One of the documents of which we have photostat copies is signed in the name J. McAuley of Melbourne and is addressed to the members of the organisation. It sets out '.he arrangements for a seminar to be held on 26th and 27th May 1969. 
I do not think  Senator Little  clearly understands what is being said, but if he would like to see me after the Senate adjourns I would be prepared to explain to him what it is all about. 
I wish  Senator McManus  would not keep bringing up the matter of  Mr Martyr  and the DLP in Western Australia because that is not what 1 want to talk about.I want to talk about this matter. Wehave these documents before us. What is the substance of the allegation which is made resulting front these documents? I cannot claim to know of the veracity or otherwise of the documents. What is alleged? What is alleged is that there is in existence an organisation called Peace with Freedom. The goals of the organisation are to pursue-- 
M r Acting  Deputy President,  could I appeal for a little order from the DLP senators? They are being very difficult. 
DLP Senators - Oh, oh! 
As long  as  that is appreciated by all honourable senators 
All right, if we can all do it. The goals of the Peace with Freedom organisation appear to be political goals and they could be described fairly as being of an extreme right wing nature. The documents-- (Honourable senators interjecting) - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)  - Order!I ask Opposition senators not to interrupt  Senator Wheeldon. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT  -I  want  Senator Keeffe  to understand that no permission was given by me for anybody to interject. 1 called the Senate to order and asked Opposition senators not to interrupt  Senator Wheeldon. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - I ask  Senator Keeffe  to withdraw that reflection upon the Chair. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - That I was considering buying mining shares while I was in the chair. I ask 

 Senator Keeffe to withdraw that remark. 
The documents which have been produced make allegations that there is an organisation which has certain political goals. The membership of the organisation includes a number of people such as the Director, or whatever his title is, of the National Civic Council, various academics of, to say the least,  a  conservative persuasion, and the present Minister for Housing,  Mr Kevin  Cairns, who in 1969 was a back bench member of the House of Representatives. The allegation is that during this period these people discussed various steps that they should take relating to the Federal election in 1969, one of their goals being a substantia! reduction in the majority which the Liberal Party and the Country Party held in the House of Representatives at that time and an increase in the Democratic Labor Party vote. The purpose of the operation was the replacement of the so-called Freeth-Fairhall policies on defence with the Fraser policies on defence and a  change in the Liberal Government. That is what is alleged. In itself, this is probably a political motive which anybody could have. But the serious aspect of the charge, whichI cannot confirm or deny, is that a member of the Liberal Party who is now a Minister,  Mr Kevin  Cairns, was a party to the discussions. 
The purpose in bringing the matter before the Parliament is that it can be placed on the public record so that the people of Australia will know that in the national legislature attention has been drawn to clandestine activities which were directed towards securing  a  change in the composition of the Government without an appeal being made to the people of Australia. We believe that the matter is  a  serious one. I do not think that anybody would have any doubt that during the year 1969 members of the Government parties were seeking the removal of the then Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton.  Indeed, they succeeded. I do not think that there is anybody who does not know that there was a  very intense and systematic campaign against the then Minister for External Affairs,  Mr Freeth.  I think that a number of senators would have heard only last week an interjection by  Senator Gair  congratulating himself on the success of his Party in removing  Mr Freeth  from the Federal Parliament. 
'Hear hear' says  Senator Little.  He is an excellent straight man. He is probably the best straight man that we have ever had in Parliament - a noisy one but a very good one. We do not believe that that is why  Mr Freeth  was defeated. We believe that it was because of the excellence of our policy, the bankruptcy of the Government and the superb candidate whom we had representing us in that electorate. Nonetheless, the Democratic Labor Party congratulates itself as having been responsible for the elimination of  Mr Freeth.  There is no doubt that in DLP and similar circles there was a concerted campaign against  Mr Freeth,  in the same way that members of the Liberal Party were campaigning quite openly against their then leader,  Mr Gorton. 
We say that the matter is a serious one for the Government. If a man who is now a Minister was involved in this conspiracy - because conspiracy I think it has to be called- 
I withdraw the word 'conspiracy' and replace it with the word 'discussions'. If he were involved in these discussions - perhaps I should say this without any perforative implications - or common purpose of removing the then Prime Minister from his office and the then Minister for External Affairs from his office, it is a serious matter. Having ventilated the allegations, our part in the matter is complete. If members of the Liberal Party are totally satisfied, if they believe that  Mr Cairns  is not the kind of person who would go to a meeting with other persons to discuss the removal of  Mr Gorton,  that is entirely up to them. One can congratulate them on their holy simplicity, but I do not think that one can look upon them as being very perspicacious. If that is what they believe, that is entirely up to them. If they believe that there were not discussions involving members of the Liberal Party as well as other people about the removal of  Mr Gorton  and about a change in the Federal Government's policy, that is entirely their business. But we do say that if there is any concern among some members of the Liberal Party that their affairs should bc conducted as openly as the affairs of the Australian Labor Party are conducted and if there is some concern among members of the Liberal Party that people holding high office in their Party should not have entered into negotiations with other persons in order to bring about the loss of scats of certain Liberal members of Parliament, I believe that they should broach this matter with  Mr Cairns.  If he gives a simple denial and if he says that he knows nothing about the documents or that they were forgeries or that if they are authentic Professor McAuley had no right to use his name, they are perfectly entitled to accept those assurances. But I do suggest to them that they do make some inquiries. They could find that there are much more serious problems existing in the Federal Liberal Party, albeit latently, than those that have been revealed already in South Australia and Tasmania. If this were to be established I would think that they should thank us for having drawn the matter to their attention 
I wish to speak briefly on a matter which I have mentioned to the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright).  I do not anticipate that he will be able to answer the matters that I will raise this evening but I would like him, if he would, to refer them to the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who is responsible for them. At the present time there is being held in Canberra an international training course in management services. It is being attended by some 24 fellows from a number of Asian and African countries who have been sponsored under the Colombo Plan, the Special Commonwealth African Assistance Plan and the South Pacific Aid Programme. The fellows who are attending this course were selected as a result of competitive entry by these persons who are engaged in administration in their respective countries. They are attending this course at present in Canberra where lectures are being given by a number of people on the problems of management and the problems of administration. Certainly I would not wish in any way to reflect upon the competence of the persons who are giving the lectures, nor do I wish to say that the matters on which the lectures are being given are not in themselves extremely interesting. No doubt in many circumstances they could be very valuable to those who attend them, but the problem as it has been put to me is that a very great number of the persons who are attending the course, namely men and one lady from Singapore, are very senior civil servants who have had a great deal of experience in administration. At least some of them already have attended high level courses in other countries such as the United States of America. They are not a novice group of civil servants who have been brought to Australia virtually to learn the ropes as junior civil servants. They are very senior people in their own countries. What some of them, at least, believe would have been appropriate would have been for them to work in Australian government departments in conjunction with their Australian counterparts. Many of the countries from which they come are recently independent and it is understandable that they would not have had the experience in administration that we would have in this country. Apparently these fellows who have come here were under the impression that they would be working in conjunction with senior Australian public servants who hold ranks similar to those which they hold in their own countries, and that they would be gaining experience at a high level in what was done in Australia in the fields of which they work. However, they have found that the course they are attending is one which many of them feel is rather elementary compared with the level which they have already reached and the training which they have already had. 
This course, I am sure, is well intentioned although it is at a relatively elementary level. It is not at an absolutely elementary level but a relatively elementary level when one compares the qualifications and experience of those who have come here. It is a very valuable course. However it does seem that perhaps it is not suitable for at least some of the fellows attending it; that we would be doing a more useful job if we were to allow these people, if they wish, to work in conjunction with their Australian counterparts. 
I do not expect the Minister for Works to be able to comment one way or the other about this matter this evening but I ask him to refer it to the Minister for Education and Science. The course started on 3rd May and I understand that the people will be in Australia for 2 or 3 months. I urge the Minister to ask the Minister for Education and Science to make some inquiries and to see whether what I have put to him is well founded. I am afraid that I am not in a position to vouch for it being well founded but I think that bona fide people believe it is well founded. I ask him to see whether some change in the arrangement made with these people could be accomplished before the end of their stay in Australia. 
 I wish to speak rather briefly on this matter because I know that the time available for debate is limited. Those honourable senators who were members of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse, as I was, aleady have had the opportunity at least of influencing in some way what is contained in the report, and also of speaking on matters relating to drug trafficking and drug abuse during the proceedings of the Committee. However, I feel that in my own case I am obliged to say at least something because I was one of the senators who brought down a minority report. For that reason I think it would be improper for me not to give some outline of the reasons why 1 was impelled to come to the conclusions which I reached. 
Drug trafficking and drug abuse is a very large problem because, as I think is well known, the nature of the drugs which are susceptible to abuse is very wide, ranging from those drugs which are available for medicinal purposes and which may be excessively taken, through to other drugs which are taken for the purpose of pleasure or for relief from the tensions of everyday life. Some of the drugs in each of these categories are acceptable to the law and to society generally, and others are unacceptable. Some drugs which apparently have a medicinal purpose are easily available although they are dangerous. Others which are equally dangerous and which do not fulfil the medicinal purpose which they are alleged by their makers to have, are not accepable to the law and to society. In the same way, there are drags which are available for pleasure, or at least for nontherapeutic purposes, which are acceptable to the law and to society. There are still others which would seem to be not more dangerous - perhaps in some instances they are less dangerous - which are subject to the scrutiny of the law and to penal sanctions and are generally condemned by society. 
One of the outstanding features of human beings is that for as long as their history has been recorded they have sought relief from the tensions, strains and agonies of everyday living in various forms of drugs, lt is obvious that most human beings naturally find that life itself, even in the best circumstances, imposes strains, tensions, sorrows and hardships upon them and they look for various forms of relief from the exigencies of day to day living. This relief is not always sought in drugs. Various solutions are sought by people to distract their attention from everyday problems. I think it can be well said that there are people who turn to harmless activities such as listening to music, reading, taking up hobbies, engaging in sport and all sorts of other activities whose purpose is largely to distract them from the day to day problems they have if they are constantly facing their responsibilities and con stantly struggling to achieve some material success or, indeed, any other form of success. 
But one of the more harmful remedies to which people have looked through many centuries to solve their problems has been the taking of various forms of drugs. Alcohol is one of those drugs. It has been resorted to by countless millions of people over the centuries. It has caused very great hardship and suffering to many people. I think that most people are well aware of the dangers of alcohol in the same way as I think most people are well aware of the dangers involved in the use of tobacco. Nonetheless, people are. prepared to take the risk of the disabilities and the physical and perhaps mental suffering which this practice may cause them because, it would seem, they do find that the. relief which they obtain from alcohol, irrespective of the aftermath, is worthwhile. This tends to distract them from their day to day problems of living. The old saying that the cheapest way out of Manchester is two penn'orth of gin is a proposition which I think still applies, and it does not apply only to 19th century Manchester when the people were living under all the exigencies of the industrial revolution such as poverty and bad housing. There are many people today living in the same economic and social situation, although it cannot be compared to the situation of those who lived in poverty in Manchester in the 19th century, who still want to drink, to give an example of one drug, for relief from the pain and suffering which they feel, for whatever reason, as they go through life. 
The problem which I think society is faced with in dealing with those who have over indulged in drugs which are harmful to them and, in turn, to society - I am not referring to the abuse of therapeutic drugs - and in dealing with those who perhaps have not over indulged but have indulged only momentarily in those drugs which, of their very nature, can be seriously damaging, such as heroin, is that it has to come to a conclusion on where it should draw the line in dealing with them. At what stage should society say that the consumption of a drug is so harmful that it has to be prohibited, even though this action does deny certain freedoms to people to do what they want to do with their minds and their bodies? On the other hand, the other consideration which has to be taken into account - this is part of the same problem - is at what stage, society is entitled to say that as the drug is harmful it is entitled to take away this man's or that woman's freedom to indulge in it. In this regard I think one is faced with the problem of alcohol. Even though  a  55-year old man who might consume a couple of beers or whiskies every day is shortening by 5 years his life expectancy or his ability to do useful work but at the same time is enjoying his life, can one say that he should not do it even though those extra 5 years of life will be more painful to him than if he were not to have the comfort which alcohol provides? These seem to me to be very real problems which have to be looked at by society. 
Tolerance has to be shown to the people who take drugs, whatever the drugs may be, because however dangerous the taking of drugs may be to society, however advisable it may be in certain instances to impose penal provisions on those who provide or use drugs, all of us must recognise that the person who commits an offence against the law by taking a drug, by doing something to himself, even if this means in the long run some damage to society which has to look after him, is in a different category from the person who engages in violent assaults or thefts or engages in deliberate actions whose purpose is to inflict harm on other people. Even though the consequences to society in the long run may not be different, clearly the intention of the alcoholic is different from the intention of the burglar, murderer, garotter or thug. Even though it may turn out in the long run that the actions of the alcoholic are just as costly to society, clearly a distinction must be drawn in the approach to this person. 
But even then manslaughter does imply within itself that action of some sort is taken against another person, even though inadvertently, whereas the drinking of the alcohol which makes a person an alcoholic is, in itself, a private action in which no other party is involved and no other party need necessarily be involved. One can only assume that in time excessive prevalence of alcoholism will cause some cost to society. In approaching this matter I tried to select criteria which I felt should be applied in order to try to reach conclusions about what ought to be done about the particular drug marihuana which has obtained some notoriety in this country in recent years. I have reached the following general conclusions and have tried to apply the following principles in reaching the recommendation which I made in my minority report. 
First, I believe that society should intervene by way of the law only in those matters which are the direct concern of society. I do not believe that if one can establish that an action is in itself a purely private action there should be any interference, whatsoever by the State. For example, if it can be established that somebody spent a lot of time listening to what could be regarded by an objective aesthetic judge of music - if there is such a person - as poor music, or somebody spent his time reading bad novels, I do not think that the, State ought to intervene and direct him not to listen to this musical rubbish or not to read that literary rubbish. I do not believe that he should be directed to listen to better music or to read better books. I believe that this principle can be intended to deal with a drug and that before the State should intervene by legislative action and the imposition of penal provisions it needs to establish that the taking of the drug is of some concern to society. But if the taking of the drug does not harm the person who is taking it in such a way that he is likely either to engage in actions which are damaging to society or in actions which will damage himself so that he will impose a burden on society which will have to look after him, I do not believe that the State should intervene in such a case. 
Secondly - and this is part of the first proposition - I believe that before any activity is made unlawful a judgment has to be made whether the activity, insofar as it would be engaged in by a reasonable person, would bring about harm; that is to say, I do not believe that the. possession of axes or scissors ought to be made illegal just because somebody may put an axe or a pair of scissors to unreasonable use by attacking somebody else. I do not believe that the possession of motor cars ought to be made unlawful just because, some person may drive a motor vehicle negligently and kill other people, or because someone may deliberately drive a motor car into something or some person. All sorts of materials are in existence all around us which, if used in a manner not in accordance with their reasonable use by a reasonable person, can be harmful. If they are not used reasonably by a reasonable person they can cause harm. 
I believe that the same criterion has to be applied to drugs. I do not propose to argue whether it is a fact, but if, for example, it can be established that the reasonable marihuana user is nol suffering any dire effects which impose a burden on society, it is not reasonable to say that marihuana should be illegal because somebody who smokes marihuana constantly for 3 weeks will be in such a state that he can cause a danger to society. I do not believe that this is a reasonable argument to put forward because, if a person is in such a condition that he will make such unreasonable use of a drug, this person could be just as likely to make unreasonable use of an axe and hit somebody on the head with it. 
The next criterion which I think has to be applied, if one has established that there needs to bc some potential for harm to society in the use of a drug before its use is prohibited, concerns the imposition of a responsibility on those who wish to prohibit any particular activity to establish that there is at least a reasonable chance that: the use of this substance - or engaging in that activity - is harmful. 1 do not believe that the responsibility should be imposed on those who believe in freedom to establish that the freedom which they are advocating is nol harmful and never can be harmful in any circumstances. In fact, it would be impossible to justify in this sense practically any substance which we now use. Nobody can establish that butter in all circumstances is harmless or that strawberry jam in all. circumstances is harmless. Any one of these substances in particular circumstances can be harmful if it is used in a special way - at a particular temperalure - or injected into the veins or arteries by a hypodermic needle. 
I submit that the onus is on those people who wish to prohibit an article to establish that it is dangerous. The onus should not be on those people who say that the activity should be allowed. The onus should not be on them to establish that the practice is not harmful. Turning to marihuana, I am afraid that I am not convinced by the argument that it has still not been proved that it is harmless. I do not believe that it ever could be proved that it is harmless any more than it could be proved that salt or sugar is harmless. All these things can be harmless but what I say about marihuana is that sufficient evidence exists at present as a result of inquiries which have taken place throughout the whole world to show that marihuana has not been proved to be dangerous and any suspected dangers are of such a nature that they are considerably less than the dangers of other commonly used drugs. 
In referring to inquiries 1 have in mind particularly the most recent inquiry by the presidential commission in the United States which has recently published its report. Similar reports have been brought down in Canada, Great Britain, the Netherlands and other countries. All of the systematic reports which have been made on the subject contain the conclusion that marihuana has not been proved to be dangerous and have recommended that either the drug should be made legal or at least the penalties ought to be substantially reduced. Whatever the question may be as to the action to be taken, I do not think anybody would dispute that the findings of responsibly constituted bodies throughout the world - and most recently the presidential commission in the United States - have been to the effect that there is no harm in marihuana. 
Yes, the last inquiry did. If the honourable senator reads the presidential commission's report he will find that it clearly recommends legalisation. I certainly do not wish to put words into the mouths of my colleagues on the Committee but I think that all of them, including those who were certainly not prepared to go as far as I wished to go in my minority report, were of the view that marihuana was at least not as dangerous as a number of other drugs. The report of the Committee contains at least the recognition that marihuana falls into a different category from drugs such as heroin, opium, and cocaine. 
There is a recommendation for a change in classification, and also a recommendation regarding the penalties to be imposed on minors found in possession of marihuana. 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
Before the sitting was suspended for lunch I was enumerating some of the principles which I believe should be applied in coming to a conclusion whether a particular drug, in this case marihuana, ought to be prohibited by law. The first principle which I believe should be considered is this: Before such a law shall be justified it shall be necessary to establish that it is a proper interest of the State to regulate such activities. The second is that if it can be established that it is a proper interest of the State, and if it is believed that the use of this drug may be harmful to society, then the onus is upon those who wish to prohibit the drug to justify its prohibition, rather than for the onus to be upon those who say that it should not be unlawful to prove that the use of this drug is never harmful in any circumstances and that there is no possibility of its use being harmful. 
The third proposition which I believe ought to be considered is whether in fact the law is enforceable. Nothing can be more damaging to the fabric of a democratic society, of a properly conducted State, than to have laws which are openly defied, laws which a very substantial section of the community believe should not be applied and which in fact are nol applied. I think it is well known, for example, that in the United States of America the prohibition of alcohol from 1919 to 1933, under the Volstead Act, led to a very great increase in crime in that country, not only crime which directly resulted from the inclusion of the possession of alcohol within the framework of the criminal law but also a number of other crimes which arose indirectly. Criminals used the illegality of alcohol to terrorise people who were engaged in the illegal traffic in alcohol. Because of its illegality, people trafficking in it were unable to obtain the protection of the law. 
There are many criminologists who hold that this is the present situation resulting from the prohibition of marihuana; that there are people engaging in the illegal traffic in marihuana who, with that illegal traffic in marihuana as a base, are extending their illegal operations into other fields, and that the very illegal traffic in itself produces various other crimes. This has been particularly evident in parts of the United States. 
I think it may be said also - evidence to this effect was given to the Committee - that the fact that marihuana at present is only obtainable illegally and that the sort of persons who are engaging in the illegal traffic in marihuana are the sort of people who, in many instances, also engage in illegal traffic in other drugs, leads people who are using marihuana to come into contact with other dangerous drugs. In fact many people first acquire their association with the pushers of heroin and the opiates because they have come into contact with these people as vendors of marihuana. 
One of the other consequences of making illegal an activity which a great many people regard as not being harmful - I admit that if in fact it is harmful this is a consequence which has to be faced, and if there is some doubt about its being harmful it certainly is something which has to be considered - is that those people are not impressed by the present arguments about the illegality of marihuana. They feel that society, the State, is acting foolishly in prohibiting marihuana. As a consequence they come to the conclusion, perhaps illogically, that the arguments leading to the prohibition of other drugs are just as foolish as the arguments relating to marihuana. They see the prohibition of marihuana, a drug which appears not only to them but also to the members of the American Presidential Commission, for example, not to be harmful, as a basis for believing that the law makers are poor judges of what is harmful and what is not harmful. Therefore they believe them to be equally poor judges when it comes to heroin and the opiates. The consequence of all this is that not only does the prohibition of marihuana not stop a great many of these people from taking it, but in effect it acts as some sort of encouragement to them to take other drugs. 
The fourth criterion which I believe should be applied in a matter such as this - perhaps it is the most important criterion and an essential one in judging the efficacy and desirability of any law - is the question of whether the social cost of (he prohibition of some action may not be greater than the harm which results, or could result, from allowing the activity to remain lawful. As an instance of this, 1 certainly believe that the use of alcohol is harmful to society. I do not think anybody could deny that the use of alcohol is undesirable and that it has caused considerable suffering, hardship and cost to individuals and to the community generally. I believe it has been shown in other countries - and it soon would be shown in this country - that if this activity, which is desired by so many people, were to be prohibited by law and penal sanctions were to be imposed on those who trafficked in alcohol or possessed alcohol, the consequent disruption of society, the consequent inconvenience, to put it at its mildest, imposed on those people who make moderate use of alcohol would be greater than the existing cost of alcohol being made available legally. 
It must also be said about this question that part of the social cost of the prohibition of marihuana may be seen in the fact that prohibition is not effective. It was shown clearly in the United States that despite the most draconic laws imposed, by the Marihuana Tax Act of 1936 and other subsequent measures, the use of marihuana has increased steadily. There are some 25 million people who have made use of it in the United States despite its illegality. lt has been said that if it had been known at the time tobacco and alcohol were first used that they were just as dangerous as marihuana these things would have been prohibited also and that this would have been a good thing. 1 have heard this said, in fact, by the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp).  1 do not believe that an examination of the history of alcohol and tobacco would justify this. lt may be remembered that very early in the 17th century, shortly after the intro duction of tobacco in England in 1604, King James 1 wrote his tract 'Counterblast to Tobacco'. Penal provisions were imposed for the use of tobacco not only in England but also elsewhere, and they failed. They created a disrespect for the law which meant that certain people were selectively prosecuted while others were not as the widespread use of tobacco became part of the culture of western countries. 
In conclusion 1 wish to say only this: J believe that the function of the state is to guarantee liberties to the citizen and not to take his freedoms away from him. Before any freedom is taken away from any person it must be shown very clearly that there are overwhelming considerations relating to the interests of the society or the interests of the state which justify the deprivation of that freedom. I do not believe that this has been established in the case of marihuana. I do believe that limitations should be imposed on trafficking in and possession of marihuana, as I indicated in the minority report I presented. I believe that we will be acting in the best interests of our society if ultimately - 1 believe this will happen in any case sooner or later - we legalise the use of this drug, because in my view the cost of prohibiting it is much greater than any potential cost of allowing people to be free to make use of it. 
 I have listened to  Senator Carrick  and would agree almost entirely with everything that he said except perhaps with the emphasis he gave to some of the statements he made in his peroration. I agree that it is improper for anybody to reflect upon the police force as a force. I notice that the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  is grinning about this. I challenge him if he is grinning in my direction to state any occasion when I have reflected upon the police force. It is improper to reflect on the police force in the same way as it is improper to interfere in any way with the rights of any party being dealt with by the law. This matter has been raised by way of a statement by the Attorney-General in which he, pursuant to a practice which he has indulged in with monotonous regularity since he attained the office of Attorney-General, has cast reflections upon a person who may be subject to charges under the law of this country. 
The innocence of  Senator Laucke  serves only to reinforce what I am saying.  Senator Laucke  said that it was a factual statement. I do not think anybody has claimed that  Senator Laucke  was present during the commission of this alleged offence or at any of the activities that took place inside King's Hall. But  Senator Laucke  in his simplicity accepts it as a factual statement because it has been put forward by the Attorney-General and that is precisely why there are requirements that subjudice statements should not be made by the Attorney-General or any other person because other people just as simple as  Senator Laucke  will believe that merely because the Attorney-General has said it, it must be a factual statement. 
I think  Senator Laucke  has already made sufficient contribution to the debate on this matter to show just how dangerous the AttorneyGeneral has been without compounding the error. I think  Senator Laucke  would be assisting his own cause if he were to remain silent for the remainder of the discussion. That to which we have drawn attention previously about the actions of the Attorney-General has been repeated this evening. He has made statements which could be clearly prejudicial to somebody who could be brought to trial. I wish in no way to reflect on the integrity or intentions of  Senator Carrick  in what he has said tonight. From what I have seen of  Senator Carrick  in the time he has been a member of this chamber I am prepared to accept them completely at their face value. I am sure that what he said was said with sincerity. But I do sincerely say to  Senator Carrick  that he should use the influence which he has inside the Liberal Party of Australia to see that something is done about the Attorney-General. I agree with  Senator Carrick  that somebody who sets out consistently to deprecate the police force is dangerous to society. In the same way, I believe that a principal legal officer who consistently sets out to prejudice people to whom he is politically opposed, and who may come to trial, before they come to trial is even more dangerous to the rule of law and to a just society. That is all I wish to say on the matter. 1 hope that  Senator Carrick  and those who think like him will consider very carefully the actions of the Attorney-General, particularly in issuing the written statement which he circulated this evening. 
This is the second time since I have been a member of the Senate - in fact, it is the second time within the past few years - that the Government, when presenting to the Senate a Bill of allegedly transcendent importance to the life and industrial peace of this country, has adopted a flippant approach to the passage of the legislation. This is a curious situation.  Senator Cameron  has reminded us, only a few years ago when a similar amending Bill was before the Senate, which we were told would open up new horizons in industrial relations, the Government gagged and guillotined it through this chamber, with the result that honourable senators were still sitting at 6 or 7 o'clock in the morning, so anxious was the Government to get the Bill passed. The same procedure has been followed today. No speakers from the Government side have taken part in the debate. This indicates either that they have no views on the subject and have nothing to say about it, or alternatively, they are in such a hurry to get this important legislation through that they do not want to take part in a proper debate on it. 

 - Senator Webster is not one of the wittiest interjectors in the Senate. He is a trying fellow and I would hope that he would restrain himself. I would not have thought for one moment that he had anything worth while to contribute to this debate and I was not suggesting that he should have spoken on the 
Bill. I suggest, however, that the Government parties have told their members not to speak on the Bill because the Government wants to rush it through the Parliament. This indicates the Government's flippant approach to this important piece of legislation. It has shown the same flippant and cynical approach to the very important question of mergers, one of the most important issues involved in the Bill. The Government, after having made very clear statements through the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  as to its intention to allow mergers to take place, and in fact its desire to encourage mergers, decided as a result of political pressure by the Australian Democratic Labor Party to turn about completely on the issue and to change in one most substantial part the whole nature of this Bill. 
This Bill is a piece of class legislation. The fact that it is a piece of class legislation is shown by 2 things at least. The first is the flippant rush with which the Government has approached this matter and the second is the interference which the Government is prescribing for trade unions and which it would not dream of suggesting with regard to other organisations within this country. Consider the rush with which the Government has approached this Bill and the rush with which it approached a previous Bill of a similar nature which came before this Parliament. Then compare this attitude with the Government's attitude towards the restrictive trade practices legislation and the rather ineffective monopolies legislation which is proposed about which we are told constantly that we must exercise caution, consider the interests of all parties involved and not rush into action. When one then considers the way in which the Government is thrashing this legislation through the Parliament, one can see the class nature of this Government. The Government has all the consideration in the world for those organisations which are engaged in business as employers or as entrepreneurs but no consideration whatsoever for those organisations which represent the working people of this country. 
Although this is class legislation, it is not intelligent class legislation. We should all be aware - all of us on this side at any rate of the House are aware - that within a capitalist society there are bound to be problems In industry. There are bound to be disputes between capital and labour. The very nature of the economic system under which we live is such that these disputes must occur. Within our society only a relatively small number of people control the destinies of the economy and reap the bulk of the rewards and profits from the economy. The great mass of the people are under the direction of those few people, reaping relatively small returns from their labours. This is essential to the whole nature of the capitalist system. Certainly in such a situation disputes will take place. The intelligent representatives of the employing class recognise this fact. 
One of the misfortunes of this country, unlike a number of other countries such as Great Britain, is that it is very seldom that the intelligent representatives of the employing class bother to stand for Parliament. They leave it to people like  Senator Webster  to enter Parliament to represent them. This ls one of the reasons why the standard of debate on these issues generally is at so much lower a level than the type of debate that one finds in the Parliament of Westminster where there are people who do have some experience in industry and some professional skill of a nature greatly different from that of the people who are sent along to this Parliament by the employers in this country. 
In particular, if one turns to the whole basis of industrial law one finds that this is unintelligent because whatever one's views, whether one is a socialist or supports a private enterprise economy, one must realise that the purpose of industrial legislation is to secure the maximum possible peace within industry. Whatever one's point of view, one must concede that the purpose of industrial legislation is that there will not be unnecessary disputes and that there will not be disputes of the type which take place at the present time. Eleven per cent of the industrial disputes which take place in this country are demarcation disputes between different unions. These are not disputes fundamental to the differences between capital and labour but, as it were, accidental disputes unrelated to the fundamental differences but arising from inadequate organisation within industry. Organisations such as the Australian Metal Industries Association have recognised this. That organisation, for example, is in favour of the mergers of unions so that it can deal with one negotiating party rather than a multiplicity of negotiating parties, and so that it will know that if an agreement is reached it will be binding on all or nearly all of the workers in that industry and not only on a fraction of them. It will know that its industry will not be subjected to disputes which may arise between groups of workers within that industry, disputes which are unrelated to any dispute between the workers as a whole and the employers. 
These are the problems which, I think, concern all of us. Nobody, however dedicated to the class struggle - neither people like members of the Government who look at it from the point of view of employers, nor people from the ALP section on this side of the Senate who consider it from the point of view of employees - looks forward to a state of affairs in which there are unnecessary and unavoidable industrial disputes. But the Government has preferred to accept the advice or pressure of the Democratic Labor Party and not the advice of the Australian Metal Industries Association. The body best able to judge what is necessary in the interests of its own industry. The Government has accepted the advice of the DLP not because its members are intelligent politicians working for the maintenance of the system which they represent but because they are more interested in retaining their seats in Parliament in the short run than they are in retaining the viability of their economic system in the long run. They have done a bad turn today not only to the workers of this country, indeed to the majority of Australians, but also to those Australian employers who realise that they must have industrial harmony if they are to increase productivity and conduct their enterprises on a proper basis. 
It was stated by one  speaker  for the Government - I forget who it was - that Australia's industrial arbitration laws are the envy of western countries. I would be surprised to learn that there was any western country, eastern country, northern country or southern country which envied Australia's industrial laws. Possibly some small groups of rather backward employers might envy Australia's industrial laws but certainly no groups of trade unions would envy Australian industrial laws. Indeed, it is rather surprising, if anybody at all envies Australia's industrial laws, that there have not been efforts in other western countries to imitate those laws. If members of the Government - if they are not still stricken with silence - do intend to speak on this Bill, I shall be interested to hear some of them point out which countries they are which envy Australia's industrial laws and, if they do envy them, when they intend to introduce legislation of their own which will give them the same sorts of industrial laws as there are in Australia. So far, my attention has not been drawn to any country in the world which is trying to introduce such industrial laws. 
On this question, as on so many questions, it is rather surprising to me on occasions - or it would be if I had not become inured to such happenings - to find that a government which for years has been telling us that we must adopt the American way of life, that everything that happens in the American system is something which we should emulate, that if only every country of the world was like the United States all of our problems would be solved and that it is unpatriotic to say that we should not go 'All the way with L.B.J.', is so far removed from American industrial policy. I must confess that from my own conversations with American trade unionists and from reading the journals and the policies of American trade unions - organisations like the American Federation of Labor and the Confederation of Industrial Organisations and also the individual unions - I believe I would not find one American trade union that would support systems of compulsory arbitration such as those applied in this country. Even the draconic measures - which have been taken by various American presidents, in particular by  President  Nixon just recently in relation to the agreement between the Pacific Maritime Association and the International Longshoremen's and Warehousemen's Union, are mild indeed compared with the draconic powers possessed by the Australian Government under the industrial arbitration laws of this country. I have not heard of one American trade union which has ever advocated anything remotely resembling the legislation which we have in this country. 
The International Association of Machinists is an offshoot of the original British Amalgamated Engineering Union and is not only one of the largest unions of skilled engineering workers in the United States but also one of the most conservative craft unions in that country. It is a union which is wholeheartedly- in support of the American Government's Vietnam war policy. I remember on one occasion attending a meeting of shop stewards of the International Association of Machinists at which a resolution was carried by the many hundreds of delegates present repudiating some suggestions which had been made in the United States Senate that a system - a mild system in comparison with that which exists in this country - of compulsory arbitration should be introduced into the United States. The reason I instance the United States is that if there is any country which is the heart land of capitalism, if there is any country - within the framework of reference of the Government, within the ideology of the Government, within the aspirations of the Government - has been successful, it is the United States of America. That is the country which is held up to us as the triumph of the private enterprise system, the leader of the free world. The reason I refer to the United States is that the sort of legislation which has been on the statute books in Australia for many years and which periodically is worsened by legislation such as that which is before us at the moment would not be tolerated for one second either by the American trade union movement or by the United States Congress, and it would be an act of selfdestruction for any American presidential candidate even to hint that he contemplated any piece of legislation remotely resembling the outrageous Bill which is now before this Senate. 
I should like to say something on the matter of mergers because I believe not only that the matter of mergers important in its own right but also that it indicates the class bias of this Government - the hostility that the Government possesses to the working class. Admittedly, the Government initially did not want to introduce these provisions relating to mergers, but it succumbed fairly easily as a result of a little pressure from the Democratic Labor Party. What is the Government doing in the provisions relating to mergers? When one cuts out all the paraphernalia, all the extraneous matter, one finds that the purpose of this Bill is to make trade union mergers virtually impossible. Indeed, if that were not the case there would have been no reason for the DLP to have applied this pressure to the Government. It was because the DLP wanted to stop trade union mergers that it applied this pressure to the Government. 
As  Senator Murphy  and other honourable senators from the Labor Party have pointed out already, the Government has taken a class position on this measure, namely, that mergers of trade unions shall be subject to all this scrutiny and will have to vault all these hurdles, while at the same time mergers of companies remain untouched. If General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd and Chrysler Australia Ltd want to merge not one word will be said by the Government in order to prevent such a merger taking place. But if the workers employed on the factory lines at the plants of those 2 corporations want to merge their organisations - their organisations are small and puny compared with the vast resources of the gigantic motor corporations which employ them- they are subject to all these penal provisions, all the scrutiny of the law, the Government and the courts, and all the other obstacles that are placed in their way. What other organisations in Australia are subject to the same disabilities as the trade unions? What other organisations are singled out for this particular attention? The Australian trade unions are singled out for this particular attention because the Government is opposed to the trade union movement, and it is opposed to the trade union movement because it knows that the trade union movement is working for the benefit of its members' economic conditions. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
This Bill and the manner in which it has been presented to the Senate indicate the flippant approach of the Government towards the trade unions and the working people, the great mass of the Australian people. It has been introduced and debated in such a manner that it is being rushed through the 
Senate without adequate consideration being given to it. It has been altered in a fundamental respect despite the advice of responsible employers at the behest of a minority pressure group, the Australian Democratic Labor Party, so that the Government may retain, it hopes, some seats in the Parliament which it otherwise would lose despite the damage this will do to industrial relations in this country. 
It is class legislation insofar as it imposes burdens upon the trade unions that it does not impose upon any other association or corporation. It applies vindictive restrictions upon the trade unions insofar as their mergers are concerned that it does not apply to the mergers of companies or any other organisations. It is not a Bill which will produce industrial harmony in this country. I concede that there can never be perfect industrial harmony so long as the majority of the people are exploited by a minority of the people. This is part of the essential nature of the economic system under which we live. It adds to the conflicts which, of their very nature, exist within this society the additional conflicts which result from a multiplicity of unions and which follow from the imposition of unjust laws upon the trade unions and the working people of this country. 
I turn once again to the question of mergers. As I mentioned earlier, this Government is often apt to cite to us the experiences and example of the United States of America, this bastion of the free world, in support of which we were obliged to send some hundreds of Australians to be killed in Vietnam and to kill no-one knows how many Vietnamese people. Yet when one looks at the United States one finds that the industrial laws of that country bear no resemblance to the repressive measures which this Government has been introducing consistently since it has been in office, and which have culminated in the Bill which is before the Senate at the present time. I wish to give another example of the difference between industrial law in this country and industrial practice and industrial law in the United States. As I have said, I use the United States as an example not because I believe that it has anything remotely resembling a perfect system but because this Government quotes the United States as the exemplar for this country and for what it humorously describes as the free world. 
If one deals with the question of mergers, one finds that only recently in the United States - only over the past few years - there have been mergers of very big trade unions. The International Union of Mine, Mill and Smelter Workers and the United Steel Workers of America have only recently amalgamated. The International Brotherhood of Teamsters and the American Communications Association covering different occupations in very different industries have amalgamated to form one union. The Amalgamated Meat Cutters and Butcher Workmen has amalgamated with the United Packing House Workers. These are big unions covering workers in different aspects of the meat industry. Never was it suggested by the most reactionary representative of big business in the United States or the American Administration that there should be any governmental interference whatsoever in the mergers which took place in the United States. At the present time discussions are taking place between the International Longshoremen's and Warehousemen's Union which covers the west coast of the United States, and the International Longshoremen's Association which covers the east coast and the gulf ports regarding a merger. These discussions have not come to fruition. There have al so been discussions between the International Longshoremen's and Warehousemen's Union and the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. Not one suggestion has ever been made by  President  Nixon, any member of his Administration, or any member of the United States Senate or the United States House of Representatives, that that Government should interfere in these mergers. Whatever there is wrong with the United States, at least it pays a little more than the lip service which is paid in this country to democracy. 
The principle that country has followed is that if the majority of workers within those unions, the elected officials, delegates and the governing bodies of those unions decide that they wish to have a merger, that is entirely up to them and it is nobody else's business. On this question of mergers, what causes many of the industrial disputes which take place in this country? I am not one who says that all industrial disputes are bad by any means.  Senator Greenwood  looks puzzled, but I can assure him that  1  do not think industrial disputes- 
I believe that industrial disputes which result from demarcation disputes are unnecessary and ought to be avoided. I believe that demarcation disputes are bad and ought to be avoided. Many of the disputes that take place in Australia are demarcation disputes. We have a situation in Australia at the present time in relation to the metal trades in which the Amalgamated Engineering Union and the Australian Society of Engineers cover the same groups of workers. In some States the Building Workers Industrial Union and the Amalgamated Society of Carpenters and Joiners cover exactly the same group of workers. Again, this is a position which has been recognised in the United States. Under the Taft-Hartley Act provision is made for a ballot to be held in any enterprise, factory or work place, and upon the result of that ballot one union is given coverage of all the works within that work place. In fact, the law in that country encourages mergers of unions insofar as it discourages having parallel unionism within the same work place. 
Why is that done? It is not done because American industry has any great regard for the trade union movement. It is done because American industry knows that unnecessary friction and conflict are avoided by having one union within one place of work, and not a multiplicity of unions which can be involved in disputes with each other which are irrelevant to any dispute which may be taking place between the employees and employer. Anybody who is familiar with some of the problems that have arisen on the waterfront in Great Britain should be aware that it was recognised by Lord Devlin in his report on the stevedoring industry in Great Britain that one of the primary causes for industrial trouble in Great Britain was the fact that there are  2  unions covering dock workers - the dock section of the Transport and General Workers Union and the National Amalgamated Stevedores and 
Dockers. One of the recommendations of Lord Devlin was that there should be a merger of those unions. One can imagine the reaction of this Government if it was faced with a similar situation in which 2 parallel unions operated on the Australian waterfront and a little piessure was applied by  Senator Kane.  The Government would be doing the reverse of what has been done by intelligent capitalism in Britain. It would be trying to prevent the merger, if it were proposed, rather than encouraging it as has been the policy of Lord Devlin and of the British Tory Government. 
What does this Bill do? Apart from the restrictions which are imposed on mergers, it does nothing to carry out what should be the essential aim of any system of industrial arbitration. The essential aim of sensible industrial arbitration legislation - taking into account the necessary conflicts which I believe have to take place between capital and labour and which ultimately have to be resolved on a political level and not on an industrial level - is to see that there is as much goodwill in industry as possible in the circumstances. There should be as few technicalities as possible, as little legal formalism as possible, in the relations between the contending parties within industry. Organisations should be created to cover both the employers and the employees, representing, so far as is possible, as broad a section of employers and employees as is necessary to reach sensible agreement without fragmentation amongst different employers and different employees. 
This Government does none of those things. Instead of encouraging conciliation, instead of encouraging direct negotiation between the parties to any dispute, it places the emphasis upon arbitration by a third party rather than conciliation between contending parties. It makes provision for outside bodies, for disgruntled minority elements and others, including the Government itself, which are not legitimate parties to the dispute, to intervene in disputes between employer and employee. It encourages the introduction of third parties into what may already be quite a lively dispute between the 2 naturally contending parties. The only effect of that introduction is the exacerbation of the existing conflict and to make it more difficult for the parties to become reconciled. The Government extends the use of legal processes and the delays which result from their use as well as from the Government's own intervention. It encourages a whole wide range of appeals which introduce further legalisms into relations between people who are working together in industry as employers and employees. 
The Government restricts the organisational freedom of unions, in a way in which it does not restrict the freedom of other organisations, by imposing upon those unions all sorts of arbitrary rules which have not been agreed upon by the members of the unions. It imposes those things upon unions in a way which it would not act in respect of other organisations. The grinning Attorney-General certainly would be most reluctant to do this to the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, Chrysler Australia Ltd or General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd. The Government requires a scrutiny of the agreements reached between employers and employees. If a group of employees wish to sell their labour at a certain price to an employer, and the employer agrees to pay the price agreed upon, the Government will intervene. For example, it will intervene when there is an argument between the employees and General Motors-Holden's about the wages that should be paid to the people working on the factory line, but it will impose no intervention whatsoever upon that company if it decides to fix the price of the motor cars manufactured for it by the employees and which are bought by the people. There is no intervention whatsoever in that case. 
The Government has decried the Australian Labor Party's policy of price justification while at the same time it further extends interference in agreements between employers and employees. No other group of people, no other organisation of producers, is subject to the interference, the penalties and the regulation that the Australian trade unions have to suffer. This again clearly indicates and demonstrates for all to see the blatant, anti-working-class bias of this Government. The Australian Labor Party is opposed to this Bill. We intend to move specific amendments when we deal with the Bill in the Committee stage. What is more important - and this is the assurance that we give to the Australian people - upon our election at the end of this year we shall repeal this legislation. 
asked the Minis ter representing the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Why was the meeting of members of the Miners' Federation, held outside Parliament House today, attended by policemen who took photographs of those present. 
What is to be done with the photographs. 
Why should these citizens be treated as criminals or potential criminals. 

 Senator COTTON- The Minister for the Interior has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: (1), (2) and (3) Well-meaning people who involve themselves in peaceful demonstrations have no control over elements unknown to them who may intrude, create disturbances or incite others to commit offences changing the character of the event. In preparing plans for dealing with possible eventualities, it is important for police to be able to identify these intruders so that the most effective measures can be taken in the hope that breaches of the peace will be prevented. Photographs taken at demonstrations provide a valuable aid to police in carrying out this function. 
There is a careful distinction between such photographs taken on public occasions and police identification photographs of persons in custody and that distinction is preserved in the police records. 
People attending peaceful demonstrations are not treated as criminals or potential criminals. 
 Mr Chairman,  I formally move: 
That the ruling be dissented from.  (Senator Wheeldon having submitted in writing his objection to the ruling)  - 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry: Will the Government take action to find jobs for those workers who may become unemployed as a result of the proposal by General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd to close its plant at Mosman Park, Western Australia? 
 May I speak briefly on this matter. What 1 asked the  Chairman  of Committees,  Senator Prowse,  was to explain to the Committee, so that we would all understand what was happening, why in one instance he named a senator for using the word 'untruth' and on another occasion he ignored a senator who used the word 'untrue'. I do not think that I need to labour the point other than to point out that to say that something that is an untruth is to all intents and purposes identical with saying that something is untrue. If one expression is unparliamentary, clearly the other is equally unparliamentary. 
The  Chairman  of Committees has declined to give any determination to the Committee as to why he took notice of one incident to the extent of naming a senator and ignored the other, other than to refer to standing order 424 which reads: 
Every such objection must be taken at the time when such words are used, and will not be afterwards entertained. 
That may be satisfactory in the normal course of events if some other senator had taken the objection to what  Senator Keeffe  said. But another senator did not take objection to what  Senator Keeffe  said. It was the  Chairman  himself who took objection to what  Senator Keeffe  said. 
So we find a situation where one senator uses the word 'untruth' and the  Chairman  of Committees with great zeal notices it and immediately names him; another senator uses the word 'untrue' and the  Chairman  ignores it. He has not said at any stage that he did nol hear the latter remark. 1 must say, with respect, that 1 would find it very difficult to believe that not everybody in the chamber heard it. It has been said by the Minister al the table,  Senator Drake-Brockman,  that interjections are largely ignored by the Chair. I find that most curious because only this very evening,  Senator Withers,  as the Temporary  Chairman  of Committees named 2 senators on this side of the Committee. They were suspended from the sitting of the Senate for interjecting. So, I do not think that we can say that chairmen ignore interjections. Two of our senators have been suspended for interjecting. 
I appreciate your position,  Mr President.  This is a rather torrid debate and feelings are running high. But I put it to you that the proceedings of the Senate and the Committee of the Whole will become completely disorderly if members believe that if an Opposition senator uses the word 'untruth' he will be named by the  Chairman  of Committees and suspended from the sitting of the Senate and that if a Government senator uses the word 'untrue' this will be completely ignored by the Chair. If this is meant to be law and order, if this is meant to be the proper conduct of the Senate or the Committee , of the Whole, it is no wonder that there is so much disorder at the present time in the streets of Australia. 
 I apologise for detaining the Senate at this late stage, but the matter about which I wish to speak is one which has aroused some concern in Western Australia, as did a similar matter in other States, particularly Tasmania as was evidenced by a question asked a few days ago by  Senator Devitt.  I refer to the practice, adopted for the past 2 years by the Postmaster-General's Department, of issuing separate telephone directories for different areas in Western Australia instead of one directory for the whole State, as was the case until 1971. I raise the matter at present particularly because I received from the  Deputy  Premier of Western Australia,  Mr Graham,  who is also the Minister for Development and Decentralisation, a letter asking me to do so. He has been corresponding with the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  about this matter as a result of a number of complaints he has received from various people in Western Australia. 1 should like, if I may, to read a letter dated 29th February 1972, from the  Chairman  of the Political Liaison Committee of the Farmers Union of Western Australia,  Mr D.  T. Eckersley, because I think the letter that  Mr Eckersley  has written to  Mr Graham, Deputy  Premier of Western Australia, does indicate some of the concern which is felt by people, particularly in the country areas of that State. In his letter to  Mr Graham Mr Eckersley  says: 
On behalf of our organisation I would like to say how much we welcomed your criticism of the new telephone directories, in the 'West. Australian' of February 24th. j  .The Farmers  Union  has written to ; numerous parliamentarians both State and .Federal, complaining df inconvenience to members. Some took the matter up on - our behalf and made direct approaches to the Director of Posts and Telegraphs and to the Postmaster-General: 
All received the same unsatisfactory reply to the effect that the decision to split the W.A. Telephone Directory had been made after a study of subscribers habits, etc. 
Those of us who felt we were entitled to the full range of directories were advised to make application for same and this we did. 
Most of us received copies of the full range yet a senior member of our Executive who applied was told he was ineligible, apparently because he did not use his phone enough or as the refusal put it, he did not have a high enough call rating to warrant a free directory but could buy one if he wished. 
The statement by the Director of Posts and Telegraphs in the 'West Australian' on Saturday February 26th is  blantantly  untrue and we have the evidence to support it. 
There is obvious discrimination in the issue of free telephone directories. We submit that every subscriber is entitled to the same treatment. This is a service that is paid for and it is completely unacceptable to us to tolerate the existing state of affairs. lt is obvious that the change to the new form of directories was made without any prior consultation with, and with complete disregard for the views of the subscribers. Most country directories have pages and pages of unnecessary duplication of farmers names in the pink pages. We seriously doubt the economies of this, lt would be an interesting question to find out the extra cost of printing the 'bits and pieces' directories as against a concise single directory without all the unnecessary duplication of pink pages, post codes etc. 
At the last General Executive meeting of the Farmers' Union strong criticism was levelled at the administration of the PMG. 
The recent postal strike was blamed not on the strikers but on the maladministration that allowed it to happen. 
If I may interpolate, that seems an unusual letter from the Political Liaison Committee of the Farmers Union, which has not usually identified with trade unions. It continues: 
The unjustifiable steep increases in rents, telephone und postal charges in recent years was also strongly criticised. inefficiency of operations in the field (many instances were quoted), mail delays, all came in for their share of criticism. 
The Executive of the Farmers' Union are of the opinion that a strong case should be made for a full scale inquiry into the administration of die P.M.G. 
It was subsequently resolved by the Executive that we would support any such inquiry. 
Your views on the matter would be much appreciated.  1 do not want to go into the matters raised in the latter part of  Mr Eckersley  's letter, but I think that it does indicate some of the dissatisfaction felt in Western Australia by a body which, I am sure  Senator Drake-Brockman  would agree, is not notoriously in opposition to the Federal Government. In fact, 1 think that  Senator Drake-Brockman  is a member of this organisation. 1 do not think it is correct, as I hear suggested, that he moved the resolution that the letter be sent, but nevertheless I understand that he is a member of the organisation. 
The position in Western Australia is that we now have not only the metropolitan directory but in a State which has a population of only 1 million people we have also directories for the South West area, the Great Southern-South Eastern area, the North Central-Eastern area, the MidlandsNorth West-Northern area and the Bullsbrook East-Pinjarra area. Some of these areas have very small numbers of subscribers and it would be seldom that any person wishing to make use of his telephone would confine that use to telephoning people living within the same area. In fact, if one looks at the maps of the telephone areas which are provided by the courtesy of the Postmaster-General's Department on the front covers of some of the directories that are available, one can see that some of these areas have extraordinary shapes. In fact, the BullsbrookEast Pinjarra area, which attracted the attention of  Senator Georges,  has a most extraordinary shape. 
No, it does not look like  Senator Withers;  it has quite a different shape. It is a semi-circular area. 
It has a big bulge to the right. It is a semi-circular area stretching from the Indian Ocean, that sea so infested by Russian submarines, north of Perth, around the east of Perth and through to the south. It is a thin strip. It is a sort of-- 
lt could be either a gerrymander or a local version of the Polish Corridor. But it consists mainly of the outer suburbs of Perth, stretching right from the north of the metropolitan area to the south of the metropolitan area. 
I do not need to tell  Senator Devitt  because he has already had unfortunate experiences in Tasmania. But 1 am sure that he. with his lively imagination, can picture the sort of thing I am describing to him. It stretches right around the metropolitan area with no community of interest whatsoever between those people living in the south - that is the Pinjarra part of the area - and those living in the Bullsbrook East part to the north of the metropolitan area. Clearly this telephone directory is virtually useless to those people who have to make use of it. Another directory which I think could also be referred to with some derision is that of the Midlands-North West-Northern area which stretches from Moora which is a little over 100 miles from Perth right up to the Kimberleys. I imagine that there would be very few occasions on which somebody in Moora would want to telephone someone in Halls Creek, Wyndham or Cockatoo Island. 
As  Senator Drake-Brockman  reminds me, conscientious representatives of the Australian Labor Party would do that but probably nobody else from the State would. It is very rarely that anybody in the Moora district, which is the southern part of the wheat belt, would telephone anybody in Halls Creek, Wyndham or Cockatoo Island but frequently they would wish to telephone people in Perth and the metropolitan area. These people are placed at considerable inconvenience which becomes all the more annoying when one discovers, as the Farmers' Union of Western Australia reminds us, that so much of the space in these telephone directories is taken up with the largely unnecessary advertisements in the pink pages. As  Senator Wilkinson  was able to elicit from the Minister only recently, the pink pages contract is held by the International Telephone and Telegraph Company of the United States of America. It does seem rather unfortunate that the people of Bullsbrook East, Moora and other areas of Western Australia should be inconvenienced in order to subsidise the already large resources which are available to International Telephone and Telegraph. 
In the directory for the metropolitan area there are 488 white pages. This includes a lot of material other than the names, addresses and telephone numbers of subscribers. There are 512 pink pages. If one turns, for example, to the Bullsbrook EastPinjarra telephone directory one finds that there are 64 white pages and 96 pink pages. lt seems most inconvenient for people who have to buy other directories that these pink pages are inflicted on them. The total number of pages in the metropolitan directory which, apparently, is regarded as a convenient size is 1,010. The total number of white pages in all directories for Western Australia is 1,008. So if the pink pages were eliminated and all the white pages were amalgamated there would still be 2 pages less in a State-wide telephone directory than there are in the present metropolitan telephone directory. To me this seems to be quite a scandalous waste. Is it felt that the size of the directory is too large? Certainly there are many much larger telephone directories than the metropolitan telephone directory in Western 
Australia or, indeed, the old Western Australian directory which covered the whole State. But one finds, as is the case here, that if one eliminates the pink pages and amalgamates all the white pages with all the necessary directory information in them one would still have a somewhat smaller volume than that which is now issued in the metropolitan area. It goes without saying that the people of Western Australia, particularly those living in areas outside the metropolitan area, are entitled to feel some annoyance. There have been repeated complaints which have been made by all sorts of organisations - certainly a number of non-partisan organisations and others which, if they were partisan would show their partisanship generally by supporting the Government and not by opposing it. Although 1 have been critical of the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  in the past, I must confess, I do not expect him to be carrying all the information about the Western Australian telephone directories around in his head, but I ask him to convey to the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  the very strong resentment that is felt by a number of people in Western Australia and to ask that this series of anomalies be corrected. 
 The States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill 1972 provides for amendments and some alterations to the schedules of the principal Act. It also makes provision for McGregor College, Toowoomba, which was not previously dealt with in the Act. These are matters of a machinery nature. The Opposition is not opposed to them; in fact, it supports them. We do not wish to prolong the proceedings of the Senate by entering into any debate on these matters. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I had not intended to speak in this debate and would not have done so had it not been for some things which were said last night by  Senator Carrick.  In the course of his speech on this Bill he said: 
Do they propose - 
Referring to the Parliamentary Labor Party -  in caucus to impose a total ban on their Party members who publicly and with utter irresponsibility, as members of the Australian Labor Party, advocate the legalisation of marihuana? 
He then referred to:   . . a very vocal and uncontradicted section of the Opposition, being what I would call wantonly irresponsible, advocates to the public and particularly to the young people that they should go ahead and smoke marihuana. 
Later he said: 
I ask whether there have been numerous statements by  Dr Cass  and other members of the Labor Party advocating the legalisation of marihuana. Is the Labor Party, consistent with its policy, willing tonight to reject those statements and will the Labor Party senators condemn  Dr Cass? 
He asks further: 
Is .it not a fact that  Dr Cass  and  Senator Wheeldon,  have, unimpeded, advocated the smoking of marihuana and that no member of the Labor Party has condemned such advocacy as being antipathetic to the policy which the Opposition now puts forward? 
Mistakenly I would have expected better from  Senator Carrick  than what he said last night. I would not have thought this was the sort of depth to which he would descend in political debate. I can speak for myself and, I believe, for  Dr Cass  in saying that neither of us has ever advocated the smoking of marihuana to anybody and certainly not, as  Senator Carrick  said, particularly to young people. What  Dr Cass  and 1 have both said is that penal provisions should not be imposed on people who use marihuana. This is totally different from saying that one is advocating the commission of- an action. I am not in favour of penal provisions being imposed on people who are members of the Liberal Party but that does not mean that I am advocating that people should join the Liberal Party. This distortion is part of a thoroughly dishonest campaign which will be carried out during the forthcoming election campaign. I am disappointed that  Senator Carrick  has lent his name to it. 
I thought he would have understood that amongst a number of people who are concerned about the problem of drug addiction there is genuine disagreement about whether the imposition of penal provisions and criminal sanctions is the way to deal with the problem of drugs. I should have thought that this was generally accepted. Certainly it was accepted as far as the members of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug abuse were concerned -  Senator Marriott  and the other members of the Committee - and certainly this sort of comment, this sort of distortion, was not made by any members of the Committee in the debate. It was recognised that there was room for genuine disagreement on whether the legalisation of some of the drugs or the continuance of criminal sanctions was the proper way to deal with the problem. I do not believe that the way to deal with this problem is to say quite dishonestly that someone has advocated the smoking of marihuana when what he has said is that it should not be illegal. I notice that the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  is shaking his head, but clearly  Senator Carrick  said: 
Is it not a fact that  Dr Cass  and  Senator Wheeldon  have, unimpeded, advocated the smoking of marihuana . . . 
No, he was not asking a question. It might have been posed interrogatively, but certainly the clear statement by  Senator Carrick  was that we had advocated the smoking of marihuana. The honourable senator said:   . . a very vocal and uncontradicted section of the Opposition, being what I would call wantonly irresponsible, advocates to the public and particularly to the young people that they should go ahead and smoke marihuana. 
I have never heard  Dr Cass  or any other member of the Australian Labor Party advocate to anybody, nor have 1 advocated, that they should go ahead and smoke marihuana. If I were asked I would advocate to young people or to anybody else that they should not smoke marihuana, in the same way as I would advocate that they should not drink alcohol. Because one says that something should not be illegal one should not be accused of advocating that it is a course that should be followed. 
I warn  Senator Carrick  that if he wants to run an election campaign by making accusations of this kind we will be ready for him. I believe that a sufficient number of people in this country will not allow themselves to be misled by this kind of personal attack on the integrity of people who have tried to make a contribution by taking a stand which happens to be unpopular. It is an unpopular stand. I believe that the people of Australia deserve better from people like  Senator Carrick  than a suggestion that they should join an hysterical claque. He seeks to stir up emotion on completely erroneous grounds against people who. knowing that they will be unpopular, honestly have tried to make a contribution on an issue. They know, as  Dr Cass  especially does, that they could be placing their political careers in jeopardy through taking up a position which, although it is unpopular, they believe to be in the best interests of the country. 
I believe that the matter of marihuana was raised by  Senator Carrick,  not because he wanted to make any useful contribution to the debate but because he wanted to smear some members of the Labor Party. However, as it has been raised, the only other comment I make is that a number of people would find it strange to hear so much talk about liberty and what an infringement on liberty it is to place inhibitions on the advertising of one drug - nicotine - which is known to be dangerous and at the same time hear the contention that there should be a total prohibition, including the imposition of penal sanctions, on the possession of marihuana - not because marituana has been proved to be dangerous but because it has not been proved not to be dangerous. This is an inconsistency which I think would occur to a number of people. I do not intend to labour the point. I would not have come into the debate if it had not been for what  Senator Carrick  said yesterday. 
asked the Minis  ter representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is the Prime Minister aware that the  President  of the United States of America will make  a  statement of United State's policy on Vietnam at 1.00 p.m. on 27th April 1972. 
Has the Government been informed of the substance of  Mr Nixon's  statement, or consulted as to the future United States' policy on the war in Vietnam. 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN- The 
Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
&amp; (2) These two questions have now been overtaken by events. 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that it is being freely claimed that the Budget to be presented tonight provides for an increase from $35 to S43 in the weekly compensation payments made under the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act? If this claim is correct, will the Minister immediately inquire as to how this confidential information became public? 
I have been a member of this Parliament for 19 or 20 years. I do not suppose that in that time there has been one occasion on which there has not been speculation as to what the Budget would contain. That speculation has come from people who work for the Press, radio stations and, in modern times, television stations. I think it was Lord Asquith who said 'Wait and see'. With great respect, I say that it is the right and privilege of journalists in a free democracy to speculate in that way and I believe that the honourable senator ought so to regard the comments to which he has referred. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for External Territories seen a report in this morning's Australian' newspaper of a statement attributed to the Indonesion Army commander in West Irian that the Australian Government will assist in the celebration of Indonesia's Proclamation Day by deporting to West Irian 8 West Irianese refugees at present in Papua New Guinea? Can he comment on the accuracy of this report? Can he assure the Senate that no such deportation of refugees is planned by the Australian Government? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware of the report entitled 'On the Dangers of Cannabis', which is Australia's first detailed review of world scientific knowledge on the effect of cannabis, the main drug contained in marihuana and hashish; if so, did this report, by  Dr G.  B. Chesher of the University of Sydney's Pharmacology Department, state that: 
cannabis is not a drug of addiction, 
there is no truth in the contention that cannabis use led to the use of narcotic drugs, 
the most serious adverse effects of cannabis on its users is that they become vulnerable to prosecution and penalty, 
adverse effects on physical health from the long term use of the drug has not been satisfactorily demonstrated, 
cancer producing substances in cannabis smoke occur in a concentration of less than half that in tobacco smoke, and tobacco use is not banned, and 
the therapeutic index of cannabis, which indicates the estimated safety margin, is 40,000 compared with an index value of only 10 for alcohol. 
 Mr Acting President,  there are 8 Bills at present before the Senate and they are to be dealt with jointly. The substantive Bill is the Consular Privileges and Immunities Bill 1972 which follows from the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations to which the Government of this country is party. The Australian Labor Party supports the provisions of these Bills. It supports them primarily because they are Bills which flow from an international agreement entered into by Australia and most of the other countries of the world. It is encouraging to think that if only on matters such as this there are some occasions when the nations of the world may get together and arrive at decisions which are binding upon all those countries which are party to the Convention. There are one or two comments I would like to make, however. 
The first is that the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations, which appears as a schedule to the Consular Privileges and Immunities Bill, has been open for signature since 24th April 1963. In fact, it has taken in excess of 9 years since the opening of this Convention for signature for the presentation of these Bills to the Parliament. One can say only that this does seem to be an inordinately long time to elapse in which to deal with a matter which is of considerable importance to the consular representatives of this country overseas and to the representatives within Australia of those countries with which we have consular relations. The explanation has been given that the long delay took place because Australia is a federation and there has to be some joint action with the several States. But I must confess that my mind boggles at the thought that 9 years delay could occur in obtaining the concurrence of the States to this proposition. I cannot imagine any matters which the States would have been strenuously resisting. It is most important for us that our consular representatives overseas should be given the protection for which this Convention makes provision. It is likewise important that the consular representatives of other countries in Australia should be given this protection. Recently we have heard quite a deal about law and order. Only recently a Bill was before this Parliament to provide for special protection for certain buildings in this country, including embassies. In view of that legislation it does seem strange that it has taken as long as 9 years for a Bill providing for the ratification of this Convention to come before the Parliament. As has been pointed out elsewhere by the parliamentary Leader of the Australian Labor Party, one wonders to what extent the Australian Government is observing the spirit of the various conventions regarding the rights of consular representatives of other countries, particularly when one looks at some of the assaults which are being made on the consulates of the Yugoslav Republic in this country. One can say only that it does appear that, despite the talk of law and order and despite the Convention - however belatedly it is adopted by this country - very little of the spirit of some of these conventions has been observed by the Government in the most negligent approach which it has adopted to the , protection of Yugoslav consular representatives in this country. 
However, having said that, I repeat that the Australian Labor Party supports the provision contained in this and the other Bills. It supports the adoption of such conventions as the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations. We are in favour of the passage of the 8 Bills presently before the Senate. 
I  can assure  Senator Wright  that the fact that the point of order has not been upheld does not mean that the debate will be in any way prolonged, other than for the time it will take to hold a division. 
It should not induce any great discomfort on the Minister's part. As I was endeavouring to explain, the Australian Labor Party is of the view that just as the Australian Universities Commission is essential to university education, there should be an Australian schools commission to deal with the problems of primary and secondary education throughout Australia. 
I thought the Minister was aware of that fact, but I was about to remind him of it in case it had slipped his memory and he had not given thought to the matter, which I am sure he should have done. Similarly we believe that there should be an Australian pre-schools commission to deal with the very great problems of pre-school education. At this late hour on a Thursday night I do not want to labour the point, but T think it is generally accepted by educators throughout the world that one of the most important branches of education is pre-school education. What happens to children until they reach the age of 5 years can determine the subsequent pattern of their lives. Preschool education is not a subsidiary or trivial part of their education, as has often been considered in the past; it is an integral and very important part of their education. It is gratifying at least to know that the Government, following pressure from the Australian Labor Party, has partially acknowledged this fact by the grants which are proposed in the Bill. 
We believe that the present provision made for pre-school education is grossly inadequate. To a very large extent the people whose children receive the benefits of pre-school education are middle class and upper middle class parents who are able to afford to maintain by private subscription the kindergartens and pre-school centres in the localities in which they live. To a very large extent the people whose children are most in need of the services of pre-school centres and kindergartens are those people whose children are deprived of that education. We believe that a preschool commission should have as one of its tasks a rational and systematic examination of the needs of the whole community in relation to the provision of pre-school centres. They should not be provided on the piecemeal basis on which they are provided at the moment. 
The proposal contained in the amendment is a modest one. We merely ask that a pre-school commission should be established to raise the level of pre-school education throughout Australia at least to the level of pre-school education in the Australian Capital Territory. Although the Australian Capital Territory clearly leads the rest of Australia in the provision of this type of education, pre-school education in the Australian Capital Territory leaves a great deal to be desired. About 52 per cent of eligible children in the Australian Capital Territory at present are receiving pre-school education. The percentage of Australian children of pre-school age who receive the benefit of pre-school education is only 14.8 per cent. The variations in the percentages of children receiving the benefit of education in this very important part of their lives range from 34.6 per cent in the Northern Territory to 3.1 per cent in New South Wales. In the largest State only 3.1 per cent of preschool age children are receiving the benefit of this type of education. In my State. Western Australia, only 12.8 per cent of children receive the benefits of preschool education. 
The results of the inability to provide pre-school education can be seen in many areas where working class parents do not have the facilities that are available to their more affluent fellow citizens to provide the sort of home assistance that is necessary. They cannot make provision for their children to be transported some distance to a relatively expensive kindergarten. Throughout Australia, particularly outside the Australian Capital Territory, there is clear evidence that the most depressed sections of the community - the sections of the community most in need of pre-school education for their children, particularly those children of recent immigrants from countries where the language is not English - are deprived of a very essential advantage in the upbringing of their children. 
All that the amendment asks is that there should be provision made for the establishment of a pre-school commission. I realise that it is probably unnecessary for me to speak at any great length this evening because in 6 weeks or 2 months, there will be a Labor government in office and it will immediately establish a commission. It would be a pious act if the Government were to accept graciously the wisdom of my remarks and the amendment which I have moved because it would not have the time or the opportunity to establish a commission. I commend the amendment to the Senate. I can see by the attentive faces of my audience that I have convinced a great many senators of this proposition. I anticipate that the Minister will shortly announce that he is prepared to accept the amendment. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Withers)  - Is the amendment seconded? 
ls the AttorneyGeneral aware that Miss Barbara Joyce Russell, aged 22, was fined $40, in de:ault 22 days imprisonment, on 11th September last by  Mr Dobson,  Stipendiary Magistrate, in Canberra Court of Petty Sessions for a breach of the National Service Act and that as a consequence of her failure to pay the fine she is at present imprisoned in New South Wales? As it appears from yesterday's decision of the Australian CapitaTerritory  Supreme Court that the making of the Australian Capital Court of Petty Sessions Ordinance was not properly notified, does it not follow that Mis&gt; Russell is unlawfully imprisoned? Will the Attorney-General immediately order the release of Miss Russell on the ground that it is contrary to principles of law and order that she should be held in prison for the commission of an offence of which she has not been lawfully convicted? 
Does the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs not agree that there is universal revulsion in this country, as in others, to the racist actions of the Government of Uganda and, in particular, the most recently reported statements of General Amin, the  President  of that country? Will the Government bear this in mind in any future discussions with other members of the Commonwealth of Nations and consider the possibility of moving to have Uganda removed from the Commonwealth of Nations if it continues with its present policies? 
-I wish to ask a  supplementary question of the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs.I appreciate the answer just given by the Minister but I did not ask a question relating to Australia receiving refugees from Uganda. I was not concerned with that problem. My problem was the general conduct of the Government of Uganda which I believe, as many others believe, is completely out of keeping with the principles to which we would hope that the Commonwealth of Nations would subscribe. My question was whether the Australian Government would either move for or support any proposal that Uganda be removed from the Commonwealth of Nations if it continues its present policies and activities, irrespective of what the United Nations may do and irrespective of what may happen to the unfortunate refugees from that country. 
 If I may, I will intervene briefly in this matter. I would be inclined to agree that there is a distinction between retrospective legislation in the narrow sense of the word and validating legislation. I believe that a distinction can be made there. But I do not know that having made that distinction I find it is very helpful in solving the sort of problem which I believe arises from some of the quasi criminal prosecutions which have taken place as a result of the regulations and ordinances which appear to have been improperly notified. As  1  understand the position of those who say - I am one of them - that the rule of law is something which ought to be followed, that there ought to be adherence to law and order in the strict sense of that term, one of the essential parts of this question is that the law should be followed at all times and on all occasions however awkward or uncomfortable or inconvenient it may be for the law to be followed. There may well be circumstances in which legislation must be validated owing to a technical imperfection in the manner in which it was enacted, proclaimed or notified. But the problem which I believe we face now is that at least some persons are in prison at present as a result of what appeared to be offences under ordinances which had been validly notified but which it now appears, as a result of the decision of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory, were not properly notified. I ask the AttorneyGeneral: Is it not a fact that there are persons in this category who have been in prison without lawfully being in prison and who remain in prison as a result of laws which, it now appears, are not properly laws of this country because of improper notification in the Gazette? Would the Attorney-General not agree that if one adheres to the rule of law, which means that one has to accept the law at any time with not only its advantages but also its disadvantages, h is a proper course of action for the Attorney-General on his own initiative to secure the release of those persons? If the Attorney-General is not prepared to agree, does he not concede that at present people are in prison as a result of an allegation that they committed offences which in fact were not offences at the time they committed them and which are not in fact offences now? 
 I suppose it is a sign of the broadening influence of this chamber on senators that  Senator Negus  has now widened his field of vision from the laws of succession, on which he has so often in the past treated us to his expertise, and has now offered us his views on the wider fields of jurisprudence. But despite the interesting propositions that he has put before us tonight, I should like to confine myself to the point which I raised earlier and to which I should like to return. I am afraid that it is a disgression from what we have been hearing. 
 Do you really think so? 
 Senator Gair  tells us that they cannot work. 
First we are told by  Senator Negus  that they cannot read and now we are told by  Senator Gair  that they cannot work. I do not know whether  Senator Bonner  will feel inclined to make any contribution on this subject. I think that if I were  Senator Bonner  I would be tempted- 
I think it is a reflection on the Aboriginal people to say that they sit around in Main Roads camps doing nothing, in the same way as I believe that  Senator Negus's  statement that they could not read was a gross reflection on them. It is gratifying that there are honourable senators at least on this side of the chamber who are prepared to defend Aboriginal people, although not a single one opposite is prepared to do so. 
I prefer not to get into a discussion with  Senator Bonner.  I should think that if he wishes to be offended he should be looking to people other than me to be offended by tonight. The matter that  1  should like to return to is one that I was raising earlier. It is a matter that I put to the Attorney-General and in respect of which I must confess that I have some sympathy for him. A number of matters were put to him but I do not think he dealt with all of them.  1  am not now debating the merits of the proposed amendment but I wish to refer to some matters that have been raised. As I understand the Attorney-General's position, it is that a number of people have been dealt with in various ways so far as both the civil law and the criminal law are concerned and it would be unreasonable to suggest that these people should be compensated or otherwise given some advantage as a result of the improper notification of the ordinances and regulations in question. I suspect that a number of people would be compelled by this argument that there is validating legislation being intro duced which will come into effect within  a  short period after it was found that the ordinance was invalid and that it would be quite absurd to try to assess what amounts of compensation would be payable to persons who had served a term of imprisonment which is now over or had paid a fine before it was found that the legislation was invalid. That is not the matter to which I am addressing myself. 
What concerns me is the situation of people who are at present in prison as a result of prosecutions under regulations or ordinances which, as of now, are inoperative. There are at least some persons, surely, at present in prison who have been dealt with in this way. I put it to the Attorney-General that if he is going to say that the rule of law should always apply and that in all circumstances the law should be carried out, whether it is convenient or inconvenient to carry out the law, we are faced with the situation that there are at this moment some people who are improperly imprisoned. I cannot see how any other conclusion can be reached. As at now some people are in gaol for the commission of an alleged offence which is not in fact an offence. 
F thought I had explained. In my view it differs in this sense: We can say that once they have served their term of imprisonment and it is proposed to introduce validating legislation it would be a matter of some 48 hours only, or thereabouts, since it was known that the law was inoperative and therefore it would be fairly absurd to try to work out some sort of compensation. But I am talking about the people who are now in prison. I put it to the Attorney-General that he could not resist the conclusion that there are people at present who are improperly in prison. I suggest again to the Attorney-General that if he is going to stand by the rule of law and say that in all circumstances and at all times the law should be applied, he should explain how it  i:  that those people remain in prison and he does not issue  a  direction for their release. 
My question, addressed to the Attorney-General, follows the question asked by  Senator McManus  and answered by the Attorney-General which related to statements made in the course of a question asked by  Senator O'Byrne  concerning certain members of the Croation movements in Victoria. Does the Attorney-General not recollect that during this sessional period  Senator Kane  of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, a colleague of  Senator McManus,  asked questions about the character and political persuasions of a  Mr Darc  Cassidy, an employee of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, and that charges were made against him on the floor of this Senate? Did the Attorney-General say on that occasion that this should not be done without due process of law, and did  Senator Kane  make a complaint and produce evidence to the Public Service Board? Are these ' principles of civil liberties to be applied only to right wing terror ists and not to citizens employed by the Commonwealth Service who advocate some left wing political ideology? 
Does the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs not acknowledge that the establishment of diplomatic relations between 
Japan and the People's Republic of China provides further evidence of the failure of this Government's policy towards the People's Republic of China? In view of this new development, does the Government intend to do anything to lessen its isolation from its neighbours which results from its refusal to recognise the existence of the People's Republic of China? 
by leave - I apologise for interrupting the proceedings but I want to raise a matter of some urgency which, I think, should be drawn to the attention of the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton).  There are reports that an Olympic Airlines aircraft has been hijacked on a flight out from Sydney; and that the Williamtown air base has advised that a device had been set off indicating that something of this nature had taken place on the plane. As this is a matter of urgency, I have sought and obtained leave to bring it to the attention of the Minister. 
My question, addressed to the Attorney-General, arises from reports that certain people in Australia have received letter bombs which apparently were posted in Malaysia. Has the Commonwealth Government made any approaches, or does it intend to make any approaches, to the Government of Malaysia for the purpose of some mutual action being taken to attempt to prevent a repetition of these incidents? 
It would be a waste of time. 
The Australian Labor Party will support the amendment moved by  Senator Negus.  We commend him for his foresight in introducing it. We do not support the abolition of probate and death duties as the taxation structure of Australia stands at the present time. There can be no shadow of doubt, as  Senator Devitt  said, that the impact of death duties has been to reduce the resources of great estates which dominated countries which did not previously have death duties. That situation was changed by the introduction of death duties. That was one of the major achievements of the Lloyd George Government in Great Britain before the First World War. 
The Australian Labor Party says that changes could be made. We believe that consideration could be given to a total restructuring of the whole taxation system so that perhaps the net worth of the people of this country could be considered in assessing their tax. But for so long as the present tax structure continues we believe it would be quite improper to have the total elimination. We acknowledge that a great many people who suffer considerable hardship through the payment of death duties, not only because of the amount which has to be paid but also because of the occasions when the sudden requirement to pay falls upon them. I for one would be very much inclined to agree with a great deal of what the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  said earlier this evening when he pointed out that there are problems in ascertaining what exactly is hardship. The amendment moved by  Senator Negus  does not include any definition of hardship. However one probably does not need to be a genius to work out what hardship is. If such a body as is envisaged by  Senator Negus  in his amendment were to be established, if there were judicial decisions from time to time on the work done by this , proposed commission, then an appropriate definition of hardship and relative hardship could be determined, depending upon the size of various estates, the position of the beneficiaries, whether they had other dependants, and so on. These things could be taken into account and in due course some reliable working rules would emerge. 
What I am primarily puzzled about is the line that apparently the Democratic Labor Party is going to take on this matter. The Democratic Labor Party seems to be saying that it is either all or nothing; that unless the Government abolishes death duties in toto the Democratic Labor Party will not do anything whatever to improve the position of people who are suffering from death duties as imposed at the present time, even if there is hardship. Apparently  Senator Byrne,  on behalf of the Democratic Labor Party, does not share all the reservations of the Minister for Civil Aviation on this matter because  Senator Byrne  conceded that the amendment moved by  Senator Negus  is in fact an ameliorative proposition; that it would make the position better for people who are faced with sudden payment of death duties and who are suffering hardship, whatever the definition of hardship ultimately may be. The Democratic Labor Party purports to say that if anything is done to improve the position regarding the payment of death duties it would serve only to continue death duties in perpetuity. That is an extraordinarily fallacious argument. If one were to follow it through to a logical conclusion one would say that death duties ought to be increased because the higher they go the more demand there would be to repeal them. That is not the history of these matters. The history of the whole process in this country is that when changes have taken place they have taken place gradually. 1 for one would not want a total abolition of death duties unless there was a total recasting of the whole mould of taxation. The entire field should be taken into account. I would oppose the idea of simply abolishing death duties while retaining the rest of the structure of relative wealth in our society.  I,  like all members of the Australian Labor Party, feel for those people who are afflicted in the way that  Senator Negus  envisaged when speaking to the amendment he moved tonight. Apparently  Senator Byrne  was speaking on behalf of the Democratic Labour Party. Are we to take it from what he said that unless there is a total abolition of death duties the Democratic Labor Party will vote for nothing introduced to improve the situation? That is the only conclusion one can draw from what  Senator Byrne  said because he said that the thing that was wrong with  Senator Negus's  proposition was that it would improve the situation. That was precisely what was wrong with it - it would improve the situation. Because it would improve the situation, he concluded by the use of some tortuous logic chopping, somehow this would mean that death duties would remain in perpetuity. But even if one could conceive- 
 Senator Young  will have his opportunity later to express his opposition to the inclusion of a hardship clause.  I  am sure that some of the rural electors of South Australia will be interested to hear that  Senator Young  is opposed to the proposition moved by  Senator Negus  for hardship to be considered in the payment of these death duties. 
I apologise,  Mr Temporary Chairman,  for interrupting  Senator Young's  interjections. Even if there were some sort of an argument to be extracted from this tortuous logic chopping by  Senator Byrne,  we are still dealing with people, and people are mortal. While  Senator Byrne  and the other members of the DLP are waiting for this day of Armageddon, for this millennium when all of the death duties have been abolished, what happens to those elderly people who now are faced with the problem of hardship on the payment of death duties? Would  Senator Byrne  say to them: 'It is very unfortunate about your case and that you are faced with this hardship, but I do not believe that you should be granted any relief on the grounds of hardship because I am such an enthusiastic opponent of death duties that I believe you should suffer that hardship'? 
We believe that this is not really the view of the DLP. It does not have a considered view on death duties, any more than it has a considered view on any other subject. What it is doing tonight is defending the Government. It believes that the Government has been embarrassed by  Senator Negus's  proposition. It believes that those Government senators who, along with the members of the DLP, only a week or 2 ago voted for the total abolition of death duties are now, when it comes down to the nitty-gritty, when they are asked to put their money where their mouth is and when they are faced with a real concrete situation being presented to them, showing that far from standing for the abolition of death duties or even the reduction of death duties they will oppose this proposition moved by  Senator Negus  that special provision should be made in cases of hardship. If anything exposes the hypocrisy of the DLP senators and those Government senators who voted for that pious resolution a week or 2 ago, their attitude to  Senator Negus's  amendment shows it tonight. 
We hope that the Australian people will be made aware of what the DLP has done and what the Government has done. We hope that  Senator Negus  will make them aware of it. Despite the fact that he has voted with us probably only 2 or 3 times since he came into this chamber, when there has been a chance for some forward step to be taken along the lines he has been advocating so energetically up and down the country and when it has come to the vote, who has it been who has supported him on this proposition which, as  Senator Byrne  admits, is an ameliorative amendment? He has been supported only by members of the Australian Labor Party; not by the Government and not by the DLP. 
1 move the following amendment to the motion that the States Grants (Schools) Bill be read a second time: 
At end of motion add: ', but the Senate, while not refusing a second reading to the Bill, is of the opinion that it should provide for the establishment of an Australian schools commission to examine and determine the needs of students in government and non-government primary, secondary and technical schools, and recommend grants which the Commonwealth should make to the States to assist in meeting the requirements of all school age children on the basis of needs and priorities and that the application of this policy could not allow the continued acceptance of the provisions of the Bill and that therefore grants should not be made on the basis provided in the Bill in respect of any year after 1973'. 
Quite a large number of Bills dealing with school aid have been before the Senate over the past months. At this stage to go into too great detail on the fundamental differences between the policy of the Government and of the Australian Labor Party would possibly be almost indulging in tedious repetition. At this late stage of the sittings of this Parliament 1 doubt whether any very useful purpose would be served by any of us canvassing our respective views on this matter. However, there are some observations which I shall make in support of the amendment which I have just moved on behalf of the Australian Labor Party. The first observation is that the Opposition takes the strongest exception to the manner in which the Government has presented these proposals for continuing school aid for the next 5 years. It is quite improper and in fact an affront to the democratic system that a Government, on the eve of vacating office, should attempt to bind the hand of its successor for its first 4 years m government. 
In the past it has not been felt necessary to make provision of this kind, yet on this occasion the Government has entered into commitments. For the moment I will not discuss whether those commitments should have been entered into but these commit ments purport to bind the Commonwealth Government and Parliament for 5 years. This is being done on the eve of a federal election in a manner similar to the agreement which was entered into between this Government and Ansett Airlines of Australia. That agreement will bind a federal Labor government when it is elected at the end of this year to actions which probably it would not have taken had the legislation not been passed at that stage. Having said that I. think it will probably suffice for me to say once again - as has been said repeatedly over past years and during this year of 1972  -  that the Australian Labor Party does not believe that aid to schools, whether they be state or private schools, should be granted on the hit and miss basis which is envisaged by the Bill which we now have before us. 
Hit and miss. That is an old Anglo-Saxon expression which possibly has reached Tasmania by now. We do not believe that schools such as the Geelong Grammar School should receive aid according to precisely the same formula as do the many poverty stricken schools of Australia. Yet this is precisely what is being done by the Bill which we have before us. Not only does this Bill do that in the name of a Government which supports inequality in education but also it tends to bind a future government - a government from a Party which believes in equality of education - to carry out the policies of this Government. What the Government intends to do after it has been defeated is preserve the class interests which it represents as if it were still in office. This is not the only instance when it had done this but this is a glaring instance which is before us at the present time. 
We have often said - and I say it again now - that the contending claims of education throughout Australia, the contending claims of the various States, the contending claims within the private sector and State sector are such that they should not be in the hands of the Government which hands out the money holus bolus to all as if all schools, all systems and all States were in precisely the same position. They are not. There are poverty stricken schools in all States - more in some States than in others. There are rich schools in all States and there are poor schools within the State sector and within the private sector. There are some very poor schools within the private sector and some very rich schools within the private sector. In fact, most of the very rich schools are in the private sector, with fewer in the State sector. Yet this Bill indicates that the Government wishes to approach this matter as if all schools were in exactly the same position. They are not. 
The only way that the contending needs of the varying systems, States and schools can be met is by an impartial arbitrary body looking at the needs and problems of these respective schools, systems and States, lt is the Australian Labor Party's policy that there should be an Australian schools commission which will not consist of delegates or representatives of the various institutions and persons interested in education but a commission which will be impartial and which will, as far as possible, tend to represent the public interest before the various branches of the education system. The differing elements within the private and State systems may make representations and the schools commission may investigate the needs of the whole of Australian education and particular schools and systems. We believe that this is a consistent approach which ought to be applied to the whole of our education policy. There should be not only an Australian schools commission but also there should be an Australian pre-schools commission in the same way as the present Government, as a result of the report of the Murray Committee, established the Australian Universities Commission. We believe that if this system can work in relation to the Australian Universities Commission it can also work with pre-school, primary and secondary schools. We believe it is essential that this commission should be established. For that reason I have moved the amendment which is now before the Senate. 
We do not believe that the undertakings expressed by this Government in this Bill should be binding on any future government. We do not believe that we should be bound for 5 years and therefore we say that the provisions of this Bill should not continue in respect of any year after 1973. This gives one more year after the election for adjustments to be made within the respective schools and systems and for the Australian schools commission to be established. We believe that from now on the needs of schools should be dealt with by the commission which we propose to establish. For that reason I commend the amendment to the Senate. 
 These 3 Bills are clearly cognate. The substantive Bill is the Crimes (Hijacking of Aircraft) Bill and the other 2 Bills, the Extradition (Commonwealth Countries) Bill and the Extradition (Foreign States) Bill, are supplementary to the first Bill and make provision for the extradition of those persons who have been convicted of offences under the Crimes (Hijacking of Aircraft) Bill. The Australian Labor Party supports the passage of these Bills. The first Bill, the substantial Bill relating to the hijacking of aircraft follows on the Government's accession to The Hague Convention for the suppression of the unlawful seizure of aircraft which was adopted in The Hague in December 1970. For that reason in itself the Australian Labor Party supports the proposals. We on this side of the House believe that if there are international conventions for the apprehension of offenders and for the suppression of crime, unless there is some disagreement on whether the actions which have been dealt with within such conventions are contrary to our view of what should be a crime, the Commonwealth should accede to these conventions and enabling legislation should be passed through this Parliament so that we can give effect to our international responsibilities. 
Clearly any law relating to the hijacking of aircraft deals with matters of a serious nature, matters which should be within the province of this Government and which should be dealt with. The first thing that can be said about the Bill and The Hague Convention is that they do have the tendency at least to make it easier to apprehend those offenders who have engaged in hijacking. Most people who have paid some attention to the prevention of crime are aware that the main deterrent to potential criminals is not the severity of the sentence which may be imposed upon them if they are apprehended but rather the high probability of their apprehension. However severe the penalties may be, if there is a relatively small chance of apprehension the deterrent effect of the law is much less than would be the case if the penalties were perhaps somewhat less but the probability of apprehension and conviction greater. Our acceding to this Convention through the passage of the Bill before us today will, in the view of the Australian Labor Party, make it easier to apprehend, to try and to prosecute and, if they are guilty, to bring to conviction those people who have been involved in these offences. 
It has to be said at the same time that what we are seeing now in the hijacking of aircraft is an example of a rather unfortunate phenomenon which is now being increasingly exhibited in many parts of the world, including this country, and that is the resorting to individual violence by certain persons who hope by acts of terrorism to effect some political purpose. For a long time we have been used to collective violence. That has been part of our way of life. Australia has been involved in actions of collective violence from the Boxer Rebellion to the war in Vietnam. There is nothing new in this. It may well be that certain persons would say that, however serious hijacking may be, all the hijacking in the world has not been as disastrous to humanity, or as cruel and callous, as half an hour in the Vietnam war. With this proposition I for one would find it very difficult to disagree. But that does not justify the continuation of actions such as hijacking, bombing and assassination which are becoming more and more prevalent in our society at the present time. If the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  recalls his Dostoievsky he may remember that there were quite long discussions of this phenomenon in many of Dostoievsky's writings. 
I have some doubts about that so I may dwell on it for a moment or 2. If one does recall Dostoievsky's novel 'The Possessed' one would remember that the characters in it were residents of Czarist Russia in the latter part of the 19th century and one of their most outstanding characteristics was their membership of small cladestine organisations whose members acted in the same manner as those people who today hijack aircraft and throw bombs. It seemed for some time that some of the political developments which had taken place throughout the world had removed this form of political activity from the world scene. One of the contributions which Marx and the Marxists made to the political struggle in eastern Europe was to give to people the understanding that political changes would not be brought about by individual action such as the throwing of a bomb at the Czar, but by creating mass political movements and mass working class movements which would bring about social changes by political action. It is the belief of the Labor Party that within Australia such changes can be brought about by constitutional political action. This is not the case in every country; possibly it is not the case in many countries. But it is the case in this country and acts of violence have no place here. Acts of terrorism have no place in any country. 
One of the problems now faced by the Government of Israel, I would imagine, in its very justified complaints about the acts of terrorism which have been committed against its citizens by certain persons from the Arab countries is that people like Menahem Begin, now a leading member of the Israeli Parliament, was himself responsible through his organisation, the Irgun Zvai Leumi, for the blowing up of the King David Hotel, the assassination of Lord Moyne and the execution of a number of sergeants of the British Army. Certainly the acts of terrorism which were committed by the Irgun and the Stern gang at that time, although perhaps they tended to give some colour to the movement of the Jewish people for the establishment of their national home in Israel, remain like a spectre to haunt that State and damage it in its relations with its neighbours and reduce the effectiveness of its own quite justified complaints about the behaviour of the Black September organisation and others. Whatever one may think about the historical origins of terrorism and hijacking, the fact remains that these are matters which have to be dealt with by a government. The Australian Labor Party believes that this Government has acted properly in according to The Hague Convention, has acted properly in introducing the legislation which is now before the Senate, and for that reason it supports these Bills. 
However, I believe that there are indications that there are forces loose in society today which, no matter how much they may be inhibited from engaging in the particular acts of terrorism involved in hijacking, will seek other measures' because of the lack of confidence which was developed amongst a great many people who desire social change in the mass movements which exist at present. Unfortunately, whether justified or not, in a great many people throughout the  world there has been a breakdown of the belief that the mass political movements are capable of achieving the ends which they should be achieving, or at least that they are capable of achieving as quickly as they believe they should be achieved. But while I do not believe that we have seen the last of terrorism, I do believe that the Bill now before us enables the Australian Government, in association with those other governments which are parties to the Convention, to deal with the particular crime of hijacking. 
I wish to refer to only one other matter. 1 have mentioned it outside the chamber to the Attorney-General, lt relates to one of the ancillary Bills, the Extradition (Commonwealth Countries) Bill. The Senate Hansard report of 20th November 1968 shows that in the debate on the Extradition (Commonwealth Countries) Bill at that time there was some discussion about the proposed amendments to the law relating to extradition to and from other Commonwealth countries. 1 will not repeat what is to be found in Hansard. I refer briefly to section 11 (3)(a) of the Extradition (Commonwealth Countries) Act, which provides for extradition to other Commonwealth countries provided that the person deported shall not be detained or tried in that country for any offence that is alleged to have been committed or was committed before his surrender, other than certain exceptions which are there set out. The relevant exception refers to the offence to which the requisition for his surrender relates or any other offence of which he could be convicted upon proof of the facts on which that requisition was based. 
I put to the Attorney-General, although possibly it would be more appropriate at the Committee stage, that although the Opposition does not propose an amendment some conceivable dangers are involved in the present provisions. Evidence could be presented to the Australian authorities that somebody from another Commonwealth country had done certain things which made out a prima facie case that he had hijacked an aircraft. The person could then be extradited to another Commonwealth country and then upon trial possibly would not be convicted of hijacking or an offence relating to aircraft but would be tried and convicted for what could be described as or what within the meaning of the existing Act is a lesser offence. That is a piece of terminology which is very difficult to define. 1 do not think that I need to elaborate the dangers that could be involved if part of the evidence given related to somebody's political associations. As I read the Act, as the situation now applies in some Commonwealth countries, a person could be extradited on the ground of his having engaged in hijacking, but on the evidence produced when the extradition order was granted conceivably he could be tried for membership of an illegal organisation or for some other so-called lesser offence which nonetheless would entail a severe penalty. 1 do not believe that this is sufficient reason either to oppose or to amend the Act or the Bill now before us because it is necessary that there should be agreement amongst the countries which are parties to extradition treaties. Otherwise the whole process of extradition becomes meaningless treaty. One cannot have a unilateral extradition. It must be multilateral or at least a bi-lateral arrangement. If this provision has been insisted on by the other countries - I think it was the United Kingdom Government - we have no alternative but to go along with it. 
I should be grateful if the AttorneyGeneral would give any information about whether there have been instances involving this country or other Commonwealth countries in which people have been extradited for one offence and subsequently have been charged with a lesser offence. I repeat that I am rather vague as to what is a lesser offence. I would like to know whether people have been charged for an offence other than that for which they were extradited. The Attorney-General may be able to shed some light on this matter which caused some concern to the Senate when it was debated 4 years ago. 
I repeat that the Labor Party believes that it is essential that these Bills are passed, that they are necessary for the preservation of our relations with other countries. They are essential to provide machinery whereby people who are engaging in the crime of hijacking, possibly one of the most horrible of crimes, can be charged and extradited. The Australian Labor Party supports the passage of the Bills now before the Senate. 
I claim to have been misrepresented.  Senator Little  has said that a statement was issued in the 'Australian' by some members- 
Yes, he gave the date. 
I am contradicting it. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order! Does the honourable senator claim to have been misrepresented? 
I claim to have been misrepresented.  Senator Little  claimed to be quoting from the 'Australian'. He said that he was quoting a statement which appeared in the 'Australian', which statement has been issued by  Dr Cass, Dr Klugman, Dr Everingham, Dr Jenkins  and myself, advocating the use of marihuana. I claim that I have never made a statement to the 'Australian' in conjunction with one or more of those persons, advocating the use of marihuana or advocating anything else. 
I move: 
That the ruling be dissented from.  (Senator Wheeldon having submitted in writing his objection to the ruling)  - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)  - Order! Is the motion seconded? 
Motion (by  Senator Greenwood)  agreed to: 
That the motion for dissent requires immediate determination. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, I have moved dissent from your ruling that there was no point of order. The circumstances leading up to my moving the motion were as follows:  Senator Little  had said in the course of debate on the Child Care Bill that certain medical practitioners who were Labor members of Parliament had advocated the use of marihuana. One of the persons he named specifically in clear terms as a person who advocated the use of marihuana was  Dr Cass.  Both  Senator Georges  and I then called on  Senator Little  to withdraw that statement, which was an offensive remark about a member of the House of Represesentatives, in accordance with the Standing Orders of the Senate. He said that he would withdraw the remark if  Senator Georges  were offended by it. Upon a further request being made that he should withdraw it, he withdrew it but having said that he withdrew it, he said that if the substance of our objection was the case all of the people of Australia were wrong about this. 
The fact that  Senator Webster,  who would be representative of some of the duller members of the community, agrees with  Senator Little  shows the extent to which this sort of statement can have effect upon the population if it is made repeatedly. I had occasion to take a point of order against  Senator Carrick  not so long ago when he made similar statements about both  Dr Cass  and myself. The fact is that if someone then says that the whole of Australia knows this, or words to that effect, after he has withdrawn his remark, the implication is obvious that only a formal withdrawal is being made in accordance with the forms and ceremonies of the Senate, but that in fact everybody knows that  Dr Cass  is advocating the use of marihuana.  Dr Cass  has made it very clear that he is opposed to the use of marihuana.  Dr Cass  has made it very clear that in common with some other members of Parliament - and 1 am one of them - he believes that there ought to be a change in the present criminal sanctions against the use of marihuana. To say that one is opposed to the imposition of criminal sanctions on some behaviour is quite different from saying that one is advocating that behaviour. It is completely different. 
I do not believe that someone should go to gaol for being a member of the Australian Democratic Labor Party; but that does not mean that I am advocating membership of the DLP. The same argument applies to advocacy of legislation and advocacy of use of marihuana. I believe that in allowing that statement to remain in Hansard and in allowing  Senator Little  to repeat that statement, you  Mr Acting Deputy President,  in saying further that no point of order arises in relation to the statement that the whole of Australia knows these things, are upholding a statement which is clearly in breach of the spirit of the Standing Orders.  Senator Little  should be called upon to withdraw that statement. 
-I seek leave to make a statement regarding a matter of misrepresentation which occurred in the Senate yesterday during statements by  Senator Little. 
 I suggest,  Mr President,  that with the concurrence of the Senate the States Grants (Universities) Bill (No.  2)  and the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill (No. 3) be taken together. 

 - Mr President, I suggest that, with the concurrence of the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  and the Senate, this Bill and the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill (No. 2) 1972 be considered together. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Is the Minister aware that the former Australian National Line bulk carrier 'Lake Barrine', which is to be converted to an oil drilling rig and is at present at Fremantle, is being sent to an overseas docking port, probably either Hong Kong or Singapore, for most of the work involved in such conversion? As this means that only some $250,000 worth of work out of the total of some $8,500,000 worth will be done in Fremantle, does the Minister agree with the resolution carried by the metal trades and maritime workers currently employed in Fremantle on the 'Lake Barrine' calling for the early construction of a dry dock at Fremantle? 
My question, which I address to the Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is similar and on a similar subject to 2 questions which I asked during the last session, to which I received answers which could be fairly described as incomprehensible. As a conference of Commonwealth heads of government will be held later this year, will the Australian Government seek to have recent events in Uganda discussed at the meeting? If the Government of Uganda has not by then ceased its present barbaric activities, will the Australian Government take action to have Uganda excluded from the Commonwealth of Nations on the ground of its unfitness for membership, a course of action for which there is precedent in the expulsion of the Republic of South Africa from the Commonwealth of Nations? 
 Some play has been made during the debate this evening of the fact that various opinions have been expressed within the ranks of the Australian Labor Party in relation to this matter and, for example, that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant)  and the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr 
Fulton) have said elsewhere that there should be no transfer of the people of the Torres Strait islands to the jurisdiction of Papua New Guinea. We make no apology for this because we. believe that this is a very complex question which relates to the future of the islands off the shore of Papua New Guinea which at present are under Australian jurisdiction. The Australian Labor Party has never pretended that it is a monolithic organisation, that everybody thinks the same thing at exactly the same time or that all members of the Labor Party are subject to direction and have to think precisely the same thing at all times on every matter. We acknowledge that this is a very difficult situation. For that reason we are opposed to the proposition which is before us this evening; that is the motion which has been moved by  Senator Byrne  and supported by members of the other Opposition parties - both the first and the third Opposition parties. We believe that what is being done by the Australian Democratic Labor Party in presenting this motion tonight is leading to a situation which will only cause strain and tension between this country and Papua New Guinea which is shortly to obtain its independence. 
We believe that this very delicate and complex question is not one which should be dealt with by means of a party political resolution which is moved inside this chamber and the whole purpose of which is to exacerbate relations between our 2 countries. With the impending independence of Papua New Guinea the primary goal of all of us must be peaceful and friendly relations between our 2 countries. The sort of situation which exists in relation to the Torres Strait islands is not unique. There are similar situations in many parts of the world where one power has as part of its territory certain islands off the shore of another country and which has, as inhabitants of the islands which it possesses, people who belong to a similar ethnic group to those of the power which possesses the islands and nol of the same ethnic group as the country which they adjoin. 
 If  Senator Little  would listen he would find that he is not helping his case by what he is saying. At present there is the problem of the Falkland Islands off the coast of Argentina. They are much further from the Argentine than are the Torres Strait islands from Papua but, nonetheless, by world standards, they are close to the coast of Argentina. The people are predominantly of Scottish origin. A very grave problem is involved as to whether the Falkland Islands should be ceded to Argentina or whether they should remain a possession of the United Kingdom. There is a similar problem with relation to Gibraltar which is part of the Iberian Peninsula. Geographically it is part of Spain and yet its population is predominantly not Spanish. It has a long tradition of being one of the dependencies of the United Kingdom. There are problems on the borders of France and Italy. There was a problem about who was entitled to control Corsica, an island which is just as close to Italy as it is to France. Its peoples, language and culture are more similar to those of Italy than to those of France. There have been the problems of the Dodecanese Islands. There have been the problems of South Tyrol. All these problems have been among the worst problems in the history of international relations. Such problems have been frequently the excuse for war and for armed conflict as have disputes about who owns what have often been very trifling and insignificant pieces of territory - at least by world standards. This is not deprecating the people who live on these islands or the importance which they place on their homes. 
I believe it would be tragic if this Senate were to adopt a motion such as the one which is before it tonight so that before Papua New Guinea obtained its independence it would be faced with a declaration from the Australian people that we were adamant that we would not transfer these islands to Papua New Guinea even though they are only a few miles from the mainland of Papua New Guinea, even though they are part of the continental shelf surrounding Papua New Guinea, and recognised by international law as being the waters of Papua New Guinea. Despite what has been said by some other speakers, if we look at the actual text of the motion which has been moved this evening by  Senator Byrne  we find that he says: 
That in no circumstances should any individual Australian citizen of those islands have citizenship transferred to that of any other nation unless with his or her explicit consent. 
What does that mean? Does it mean that if the proposed referendum is held on the Torres Strait islands and one person out of the whole population votes against it the islands cannot be transferred. 
Well, what does it mean? If it does not mean that 1 would like to have an explanation of what it does mean because the motion does not say 'A majority of the inhabitants of the islands'; it says 'any individual'. That is one person. According to  Senator Byrne  one person can exercise the right of veto. If that is not so, what does it mean? I defy somebody to explain to me what it means because it is completely incomprehensible to me. Seeing the subject has been raised I must say that 1 find it very strange that members of the 3 Opposition parties - I name them in order of seniority, the Liberal Parly, the Australian Democratic Labor Party and the Australian Country Party - should be so concerned tonight about the transfer of populations from one island territory to another when only a few years ago the government supported by those parties wanted to shift the entire population of Nauru to Palm Island off the coast of Queensland and the population of Palm Island to the mainland. That is the proposition which was made by the same people who, for a long time, were members of the government and who, for a long time, will not be the government. Tonight they are telling us what tender feelings they have in relation to the movement of people from one island to another. 
Tonight we have had a very interesting contribution from  Senator Bonner.  He has told us that he is the only one here who can really talk about the subject because his brothers and sisters live on Torres Strait islands. He treated us to a bit of Black and White Ministrel Show humour in imitating the way in which the inhabitants of the Torres Strait islands speak. If anybody else had done that it would have been regarded as most derogatory. If any honourable senator on this side had done it he would have been described as being insulting in talking in such a way about these people.  Senator Bonner  has said that he feels so strongly about this matter because he, as an Aboriginal, has suffered so terribly from the white man that he does not want to see this happen to the people of the Torres Strait islands. Listening to  Senator Bonner  one would think that Papua New Guinea was inhabited by whites and that Australia was inhabited by blacks because  Senator Bonner  was saying how shocking it is that the people of the Torres Strait islands should be placed under the jurisdiction of the white man. They are now under the jurisdiction of the white man and if they were shifted to the jurisdiction oยฃ Papua New Guinea they would be leaving that terrible condition of thraldom about which  Senator Bonner  has told us at such length tonight. 
He has said - I think this is the crux of the whole matter - that the people of the Torres Strait islands have a God-given, natural right to the possession of those areas in which they live. 1 would not dispute that but I would find it very extraordinary for anybody to establish that God had decided that the Torres Strait islands were to be part of the colony of Queensland. We all know very well how that happened. The islands were acquired by the British Crown in the 19th century, less than 100 years ago. A purely accidental borderline of demarcation was drawn between the colony of Queensland and what subsequently became Papua New Guinea. God did not do that at all. Nobody has suggested that we should be in any way abridging the rights of the Torres Strait islanders to their land or homes. The only thing that has been suggested by the Government is that there ought to be negotiations with Papua New Guinea as to the future of these islands. If I may say so, 1 find it very extraordinary that  Senator Bonner  as a member of the Liberal Party should be feeling so agitated at this stage about the land rights of the Torres Strait islanders when the Government of which he was a supporter and which is now the Opposition showed by its actions just precisely what it thought about the land rights of the Aboriginal people of Australia. This sudden discovery that the present Opposition has made about land rights of Torres Strait islanders is remarkable and I think it would make hilarious listening for the Aboriginal inhabitants of Western Australia, Queensland and the Northern Territory to hear tonight that the Liberal Party, the Democratic Labor Party and the Country Party were the advocates of their land rights and that in some strange way the Australian Labor Party was their opponent. 
All I say in conclusion is that we do not say that this is a problem which is simple of solution. It is a problem which this Government has inherited from the demarcations by colonial powers of Asian, Pacific and the. African areas. They are the same sort of problems as exist now throughout India and Africa where tribes were abitrarily divided, where there was no natural geographic division, where there was no natural ethnic division. The tribes were divided purely to suit the convenience of the occupying power, and this is what happened with regard to the relationship between the Torres Strait islands and Papua New Guinea. We acknowledge this. We acknowledge also that the rights and the wishes of those people who are presently Australian citizens living in the Torres Strait islands have to be considered and they are one of the most important factors to be considered. 
No, I will not support the. resolution. I will not say that one Torres Strait Islander has a right of veto. I believe that it would be quite absurd at this stage for this Parliament to make declarations on a matter which is still subject to negotiation between our Government and the Government of Papua New Guinea. In the same way, [ believe, it would be quite improper for the Parliament of Papua New Guinea to pass a resolution with regard to the future occupation of these islands. There will be plenty of time for debate on this matter. If as a result of an agreement between our  2  countries some decision is made which alters the present status of the Torres Strait islands, then will be the time to debate the matter instead of this whipping up of racist frenzy that we have heard tonight from  Senator Little  when he talked about barbarism in Papua New Guinea and only a few areas being under proper control. He has predicted the greatest blood bath in the history of civilisation. As a supporter of the war in Vietnam he ought to be an expert on blood baths. This is precisely the sort of language which has led to war after war through the history of humanity. This is the type of thing to which the Australian Labor Party is opposed and this is why we say that we will not be bound by jingoistic resolutions, that we will negotiate this matter on a sensible, rational basis as sensible, civilised people with a sensible, civilised government in Papua New Guinea. 
Has the Special Minister of State noted that the Government of Spain has agreed to exchange diplomatic representatives with the Government of the People's Republic of China on the basis that the Government of Spain will no longer recognise the Government in Taiwan, and that at the same time the Government of Spain has agreed to enter into diplomatic relations with the German Democratic Republic? Does he think that this might mean, after all, that General Franco is a secret communist? 
I am opposing the motion before the Senate. I believe that this is a matter to which members of the Liberal and Country parties should be giving a great deal more attention before they proceed to the passage of this motion of which notice was given only yesterday. It is a very serious motion. It calls for the constitution of a Senate select committee of a nature totally different from that of any of the committees which have been operating in the Senate over the past 8 years at least, while I have been a member of this chamber. 
The motion we are considering calls for an inquisitorial committee to inquire into the behaviour of an individual. It is not a committee which calls for the examination of some aspect of the national life of this country; it is not a committee which calls for an inquiry into some particular field of endeavour - whether it be drug trafficking and drug abuse, or water pollution or any of the other matters that have been dealt with - and dealt with properly - in the past by committees of the Senate. In fact, it is a committee whose purpose is to drag through the mire of publicity and innuendo the name of an Australian citizen. 

 Senator Little said that this committee is to operate on the same basis as previous committees. He also said that  Senator Murphy  came into this chamber and moved a motion that a committee to inquire into securities and exchange should be established, and that the proposition we are discussing tonight is just the same as the proposition regarding securities and exchange which was put by  Senator Murphy.  For one thing, the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange did not set out to, nor did it, blackguard any individual. It was meant to be an objective inquiry into an aspect of our national life. The motion that was moved by  Senator Murphy  provided that there should be on the committee 4 Government senators, only 3 Opposition senators and one senator from the Australian Democratic Labour Party. The very proposition that was put by  Senator Murphy  provided that the party of which he is the Leader should have only 3 out of the 8 members on the committee and that the other 5 senators should be opponents of this party. To say that this is the same as the proposition which is now being put by  Senator Gair  is transparently false because what  Senator Gair  is putting is that the committee should consist of a majority of Opposition senators. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! The motion before the Chair is that intervening business be postponed until after the consideration of General Business, notice of motion No. 9. I think that  Senator Wheeldon  is debating notice of motion No. 9. 
I beg to differ, if 1 may,  Mr Deputy President.  I would refer you to what was just said by  Senator Little  and to the contributions that have been made by all Opposition speakers. They have dealt with the substance of this proposition. In fact,  Senator Little  himself just referred to the same question and the points that I am putting now are in answer to the points made by  Senator Little.  I fall to see how suddenly they become out of order, if they were in order a few minutes ago when  Senator Little  was making these very points. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I suggest to you that you do not debate my ruling on this matter. You will recall that I have occupied the chair for a very short time. I came into the chamber at the end of  Senator Little's  contribution. What happened previously is of no consequence to my ruling. I would hope that the Senate will debate the motion before the Chair. My ruling will apply equally to honourable senators from both sides of the chamber. 
That is what I am endeavouring to do. It seems to me that it is very difficult to discuss the urgency of the proposition that is now before the Senate without referring to the substance of the proposition. If one does not know what the substance of the proposition is, then obviously one cannot debate whether or not the matter is urgent. The submission that I am making is that the substance of the proposition, of which notice has been given by  Senator Gair,  is of such a nature that there should be some delay in the continuation of the discussion of the motion - that we should not proceed with the motion tonight. The submissions I make are of a very serious nature. I would like to draw attention to something which 1 believe reflects the scandalous nature of the motion which has been moved today. It is known, and it certainly must be known to  Senator Kane,  if not to his colleagues in the Democratic Labor Party, that a writ was issued last month by  Mr Burchett  against  Senator Kane  for defamation arising from the very matters that are contained in the motion. 
I have never seen a more flagrant abuse of the rules of this Senate than that a member of a certain Party should have a writ issued against him for defamation by an Australian citizen and, while this writ is still extant and has not been dealt with, that very Party should move a motion in the Senate to blackguard the man who is party to the action against the DLP senator. This is dragging the reputation of this Parliament through the gutter. If this is the approach which the so-called Liberal Party is to adopt to the rights of individuals and to justice before the law, it. should be exposed to all of the Australian people that this is what it means by law and order; that this is what it means by the rule of law; that this is what it means by a democratic Parliament. I hope that all of the people of Australia know exactly what is being done here tonight. 
The motion is couched in syrupy terms which suggest that it was moved because  Mr Burchett  asked for a public inquiry.  Mr Burchett  asked for a public inquiry last year when he was in this country and when the then Government, which is now the Opposition, declined to take any action whatever. When  Mr Burchett  asked for a public inquiry he obviously meant a judicial inquiry. One other fact which I put to members of the Opposition to consider is the remarks made by the Leader of the Opposition in this Senate when he misquoted former  Senator Kennelly  as saying that he believed in the brutality of numbers. The Leader of the Opposition says that he believes in the brutality of numbers. What a confession to make when tha proposition which is before the Senate is that the Opposition parties should have the numbers on this committee. What a confession of what this committee would be. We are told that the matter is urgent. These acts which were allegedly committed by  Mr Burchett  but which apparently did not offend the United States Administration or  Dr Kissinger  because  Mr Burchett  was invited to confer with  Dr Kissinger  on these matters- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - In view of the nature of the debate so far the point of order will not be upheld. However, I would request honourable senators to remember that the motion before he Senate does not permit a debate of notice of motion No.  9  standing in the name of  Senator Gair.  The question for debate is whether other business shall be postponed. In the strict terms of the Standing Orders that is a formal motion, and to anticipate a debate is not the normal practice of the Senate. I will give consideration to the point that has been raised but  1  appeal to honourable senators not to traverse too widely the subject of notice of motion No.  9  which the Senate is apparently anticipating. 
A point of order was raised against  Senator Wheeldon  but he survived it justifiably, with respect, on your decision,  Mr Deputy President.  However, he may find it impossible to proceed on the point as to whether the order of business should be changed without going into the very items on which a court may be asked to rule in the future. Are we to have 2 trials of this man? If we believe in the rule of law, should the Senate take over the rule of law by deciding the issue tonight? With respect, according to our practice in this chamber there should be no further discussion on any aspect of the matter until there is a withdrawal of the action before a court or a court has decided on it. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- The point of order cannot be upheld. The matter of whether item No.  9  of General Business is sub judice cannot arise on the present motion. The motion asks that intervening business be postponed. Therefore the difficulty in which the Senate is placed as to whether the matter is sub judice stems from the Senate's departure from the normal procedure of business in debating something which is beyond the terms of the motion. The question as to whether the matter is sub judice cannot possibly arise on the motion before the Senate. 
I did not raise the matter at this stage for the purpose of a point of order as to whether the matter is sub judice. I do not wish to debate the substance of the allegations which are contained in the motion of which notice has been given by  Senator Gair.  I wish to refer to the alleged urgency attaching to the debate of these matters this evening. I believe it is relevant to say to honourable senators opposite that they ought to consider what urgency there is in the question when at least some of the offences alleged to have been committed by  Mr Burchett  relate to events 20 years ago. He has been in Australia since then at a time when honourable senators opposite were in government, while  Senator Greenwood,  who is now the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, was Attorney-General, and no action whatsoever was taken against him. But suddenly urgency has arisen and the matter has to be debated now. 
What is the only new factor? The only new factor is that a writ for libel has been issued by  Mr Burchett  against a Democratic Labor Party senator. That is the only urgency in this matter. That is the only reason why the DLP wants to debate this question tonight. What other urgency is there? If the DLP is looking for a judicial inquiry into  Mr Burchett's  activities it has a golden opportunity.  Senator Kane  could take immediate steps to get the writ set down for trial so that he can appear before a Supreme Court justice and a jury. He could give his evidence as to what he alleges to have happened in Korea and elsewhere.  Mr Burchett  could tell his story and it would not be before a kangaroo court consisting of 2 members of the Liberal Party, one member of the Country Party and one member of the Democratic Labor Party. It would be before a Supreme Court justice and jury. If this is what members of the law and order Party want, let them press for it. Let them press to have the case set down for trial. They should not blackguard a man in this coward's castle. We have already heard the Leader of the Democratic Labor Party  (Senator Gair)  today blackguarding a Swiss writer in absentia who has no right to answer here. 
That is not what we want to make of this Parliament. This Parliament should not be lowered to the level of being used to feather the nests of people who want to blackguard individuals who do not have the right to reply. This has particular force when the individual concerned challenged the former Government when he was in Australia last year to have an impartial judicial inquiry into his activities and the Government rejected the challenge. The DLP says that it is an urgent matter which ought to be investigated by a select committee of the Senate. It is suddenly urgent now, but it was not urgent last year when  Mr Burchett  was in this country and invited the Government of that time to have a judicial inquiry. 
A lot of new information must have arisen.  Dr Kissinger  has been accused of many things but never of being a communist agent, a fellow traveller of the Labor Party or even a fellow traveller of the United States Democratic Party. One of the people he insisted on speaking to before he entered into negotiations with the National Liberation Front of South Vietnam and the Government of North Vietnam was the same Wilfred Burchett.  Dr Kissinger  apparently did not feel that there was such urgency that  Mr Burchett  ought to be investigated by a committee of the United States Senate. He was not only prepared but anxious to discuss these matters with  Mr Burchett. 
I wish to raise one other matter. 1 believe that I have taken a very open-minded attitude towards Senate committees. In fact, some of my colleagues in the Labor Party have thought that I have been rather too openminded with regard to some of the select committees which have operated in recent years. I have been quite happy to continue with Opposition chairmen and majorities, not changing the composition of various committees, because I believe that they have performed a valuable function of inquiring into the facts and bringing down recommendations about proposed changes in the law that might be considered. However, I can assure members of the Liberal Party that if their attitude tonight is to be their attitude to select committees, if this is the sort of select committee that they want to constitute, I will have to review my attitude. The present Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers),  who is showing his steady industry in his new job once again this evening, said: 'You can exercise a brutal majority on these committees.' If that is the attitude of the Opposition to this proposed committee, that will also be my attitude about all other committees. 
I can imagine the sort of appeals that will be. made in the future by honourable senators opposite about how members of the Senate Regulations and Ordinances Committee, for example, ought to look at matters objectively. I believe they should. I believe that all committees of that nature ought to look at matters objectively. But can we believe that this is what they will do when the Opposition is prepared to support a proposition which gives a majority to the Opposition in order to set up and frame a man who has been prepared to test his bona fides by issuing a writ against a DLP senator who apparently is not prepared to face him in court but wants to have the matter dealt with in absentia in the Senate tonight? 
Yes. We know very well that this proposition has been moved tonight because the Opposition parties are unable to defeat the Government on its promises relating to the Australian economy, social services and reforms in industrial relations. What they hope to do is get out the old Mccarthyite tactics which they found so successful during the 1950s when they tried to terrify people with their red arrows coming down from China, descending on Perth. 
It has everything to do with the motion.  Senator Gair  thinks he is back in business now in Brisbane accusing everybody who disagrees with him of being a communist spy. I have news for the Democratic Labor Party, the Liberal Party and the Country Party. The people of Australia are not prepared to cop this any longer. They know very well that any sensible statesman in the world is prepared to talk to China, North Vietnam and the Soviet Union. Even General Franco, the idol and hero of the DLP, has entered into diplomatic relations with China on precisely the same terms as those on which Australia has entered into diplomatic relations with China. They think that they can defeat us by blackguarding Wilfred Burchett in absentia, not being prepared to have a judicial investigation when he was in this country last year. If there was any evidence against him, I would like to- 
 Senator Webster  is very talkative on this issue. We have with us the old duo,  Mr Justice  Webster and  Mr Justice  Jessop. We have the Full Bench. I would like to ask  Senator Webster,  as he is so vociferous on this matter and if he believes that these serious accusations against  Mr Burchett  have some substance, why he did not press  Senator Greenwood  when he was the AttorneyGeneral to prosecute Wilfred Burchett when he was in Australia last year. He was in the country. Why did not the Government prosecute him if they believed that these matters ought to be tested before a tribunal? If that was their belief they could have had a tribunal hear charges against him.  Mr Burchett  could have been charged with offences against the Crimes Act or against the common law of this country. But the Government did not do so. Why did it not do so? lt did not do so presumably because it did not have any evidence. What the members of the Opposition want to do is to have an inquiry by a committee on which they have the. numbers on a subject on which they have already expressed their opinions. We have already heard what the Democratic Labor Party, which has put forward this proposition, has been saying about Burchett for years. The Democratic Labor Party wants to have a committee of inquiry on which it has the numbers and in which it can blackguard him while at the same time saving  Senator Kane  from some discomfort in the court action which  Mr Burchett  has brought against him. That is the reason for the urgency . of this matter. 
I would like to conclude by offering a word of advice to members of the Liberal Party of Australia. I think that they have a couple of clear choices available to them in the role that they are going to play in opposition over the next few years. First, they can try to adapt themselves to a changing world and a higher level of education in this country, knowing that there are now people who do not believe the sort of twaddle they were talking in 1949 about socialism leading to communism, China being an agent of Russia, 
Indonesia being an agent of China, the Australian Labor Party being an agent of Indonesia and the sort of stuff that was served up for years. There is a much too sophisticated population in this country now to accept the sort of drivel and the sort of nonsense that are enclosed in the proposition put forward by  Senator Gair.  The members of the Liberal Party can take that into account and convert themselves into a genuine liberal party, for which there is a role in any society, or they can take up the suggestion that has been put forward tonight by the absent Leader of the Opposition, who does not appear to be paying a very keen interest in this debate, that the only people who were critical of  Senator McCarthy  were the communists and that the only people who did not have faith in  Senator McCarthy  were the communists when the overwhelming majority of the United States Senate itself censured  Senator McCarthy,  including the late  President  Johnson, who was one of the sponsors of the motion of censure of  Senator McCarthy.  But apparently that is not good enough for  Senator Withers.  He still thinks it was only the communists who attacked  Senator McCarthy. 
I would like to offer a word of warning to the Liberal Party. I do so because, along with some others, I believe that the Liberal Party could play a valuable role over the next few years by performing the function of a sensible opposition. I do not believe that it is going to perform that function by continuing along the lines which it has followed tonight of supporting the proposition which is before the Chair. This is something which the Australian people do not accept. The Australian people do not accept the proposition involved in blackguarding a man in his absence when there has been an opportunity to deal with him judicially. Anyone who wanted to deal with Burchett judicially has had plenty of opportunities to do so. They will still have the opportunity of doing so when the writ which has been issued against  Senator Kane  is dealt with by the court. I warn the Liberal Party that if it wants to play any sort of role in opposition and receive any respect from the Australian people it should abandon these absurd tactics, which have been discredited not only in this country but also throughout the rest of the world. 
There is no specific Standing Order of the Senate which covers debate on matters which are sub judice, but the practice of the Australian Senate is not to allow debate on a question awaiting determination by a court of law. This practice is based on rulings which have been gIven by the Chair and which have not been disapproved by the Senate, and the following, given by President Givens on 3rd August 1921, clearly illustrates the Senate's accepted policy: 
The point of order raised by the Minister for Defence  (Senator Pearce)  is, of course, a very important one, and, although our Standing Orders are silent in this connection, fortunately we have ample precedents to guide us. As honourable senators are aware, where our Standing Orders are silent, this Senate, as well as all other Parliaments or branches of a Legislature, are guided by the practice of the House of Commons. The whole question turns on whether the matter is sub judice or not. From the statements of the Minister for Defence, speaking on behalf of the Repatriation Department, and of  Senator Elliott,  it appears to me that the terms upon which this business was handed over by the Repatriation Department to the trustees is a matter which is now awaiting settlement by the Court, because certain parties, according to the statement by  Senator Elliott,  have initiated proceedings to prevent the trustees from taking any action in regard to it. Therefore, the whole question, in my opinion, is involved in litigation. The last edition of May, on page 296, clearly lays down the practice of the House of Commons. That ruling has been followed by innumerable others, and it is obviously a good one, because it would be highly improper for any person occupying a position of privilege in this Senate to seek to prejudice a case which is awaiting judgment by a Court. Therefore, as I gather from  Senator Elliott's  remarks that the terms upon which this property was handed over is a matter that will come before a Court, by whom it will, no doubt, be weighed, and a judgment given, and as the case is still awaiting adjudication, following the practice of the House of Commons, I must rule that the honourable senator is out of order. 
I mention that this is also the practice in the legislatures of New South Wales, Queensland and Western Australia. The learned authors of this book conclude as follows: 
It is clear from the foregoing that although there are minor differences between the legislatures in the detailed interpretation of this principle, the principle itself is nowhere in dispute. The privilege of freedom of speech carries with it grave obligations, and it is not surprising that responsible legislatures have steadfastly refused to exercise it in such a way as to put in jeopardy the rights of a private individual whose case is in due process of trial. 
I submit,  Mr Deputy President,  that all the constitutional precedents clearly establish that this is a debate which just cannot proceed. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - I think the honourable : senator is straying from the point of order. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  We are considering a point of order now. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Are you speaking to the original point of order? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order!  Senator Webster  has not concluded his remarks. 
SenatorO'Byrne  -  I want to follow up the point of order taken by  Senator James  McClelland by quoting 'Australian Senate Practice', third edition, by J. R. Odgers. I refer to page 168 where sub judice matters are dealt with. The author states: 
Matters still under adjudication in a court of law cannot be brought forward in debate. That is to say, the Senate will not permit a debate which, in the normal way, would be regarded, if it occurred outside Parliament, as a contempt of those court proceedings. But the rule is not always confined to those limits. Speaking in the House of Representatives which, generally speaking, takes the same line as the Senate on sub judice matters,  Dr H.  V. Evatt (then Attorney-General) made the following statement on 17 April 1947: 
What is said in Parliament is absolutely privileged by the law. What is said in the courts of justice is absolutely privileged by the law. We have those 2 great instruments of government, the legislative power exerted by one, and the judicial power exerted by another. As the years have gone by, the Parliament, having an absolute privilege and not being bound to apply the rules of contempt of court, or even the laws of defamation, both of which are applicable to comment outside the Parliament, has taken the view which  I  believe has been carried out in cases like the Jerger case. That is to say the Parliament does not ask' Is there a proceeding pending at this moment?', but rather, In all the circumstances, should a debate on a particular matter be permitted at this particular moment?' 
Thus, it can be said that there is no rigid rule, but rather that common sense indicates how the line should be drawn. A pertinent point to bear in mind in issues of this nature was made by  Dr Evatt  in the above-mentioned debate when he quoted: 
It  is possible  to  poison the wells of justice before they begin to flow. 
Todd, in his Parliamentary Government in England, p. 573, vol. 1, declares that it is highly irregular to bring into discussion, in either House of Parliament, any matters, whether they relate to criminal or civil cases, which are undergoing judicial investigation, or are about to be submitted to courts of law, as it leads to the imputation of a desire to interfere with the ordinary course of justice. 
As to the application of the rule to Bills, the position at Westminister is that there is no restriction on the introduction or discussion of Bills, in either House, relating to matters which are sub judice. 
I submit that the question before the Senate is whether urgent business should be postponed. Repatriation benefits and many other matters will be delayed. We have a mandate to bring those matters before this Parliament and they are being delayed by the motion before the Chair. That motion is completely out of order. 
 Here he goes. Is this a point of order? 
 Nonsense. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! I think  Senator Wright  is straying from the point of order. 
But now we come to the question whether we are premature in raising this point of order. Whenever we decide to debate this matter, discussion must be ruled out of order. Precedent has to be established at some time and great is the man who establishes precedent.  Mr Deputy President,  at this time you are asked - and I think you have a responsibility to decide - whether you will let the debate go on so that an item can be brought on before intervening business, which item you must rule out of order for discussion in this chamber when it comes on. While I agree that we are only debating the postponement of intervening business until after consideration of a notice of motion, we are wasting a lot of time discussing this subject, which I feel must be ruled out of order after we have decided in what position we will place the notice of motion on the notice paper. 
I raise another point. In discussing this motion for the postponement of intervening business items which will be discussed before a court of law have been brought into the debate. The publicity resulting from this debate which will be given through the media tomorrow could have a vital influence on a jury which has to decide the outcome of the writ which has been issued. We are not doing justice to the parties to this dispute because this debate could have a vital effect on the matter when it goes before the court. Although I accept your ruling that this is only a question of the order of business, 1 do not think you can overrule the authorities which  Senator James  McClelland has cited. When we come to discuss the establishment of a committee we must come to the point where you cannot permit the debate to proceed. In view of the implications I am making an appeal,  Mr Deputy President,  that you establish this precedent. This matter possibly has never been before the chamber previously. We are wasting our time by engaging in debate which could be prejudicial to one of the parties to the litigation. Therefore a ruling from the Chair should end the discussion. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Is the honourable senator raising a point of order to a point of order? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Having listened to the point of order I cannot sustain it. 
Senate should be prepared to assert the right of honourable senators in this place to say what they please and to say it responsibly. My third point relates to the various authorities which have been cited by members of the Australian Labor Party. These are selective authorities which are designed to meet their case and ignore the points which have been made in their own favour when points have been taken unsuccessfully by us in the past. I refer to the decision of the former  President  of the Senate,  Sir Alister  McMullin, given as recently as 20th May 1969. Let me recapitulate what the point of order was so that the speciousness of the Labor Party's approach can be seen. It was at a time when a  Mr Clarence  O'Shea was before the Commonwealth Industrial Court because he had failed to answer certain questions relating to the imposition of fines. A motion was then moved by the Labor Party with a view to having the whole question debated. The then Government took the point that the subject was sub judice and the matter was argued. The  President, Sir Alister  McMullin, ruled that the debate should be allowed to continue. I shall quote his words because I feel this is highly relevant to an appreciation of a point to which we ought to adhere in this Senate. 
I do not think the motion necessarily- 
I emphasise the word 'necessarily' - brings into consideration the current matter before the Commonwealth Industrial Court. As a general rule the Chair will not allow references to matters which are awaiting or are under adjudication in the courts if such references may prejudice proceedings. But it does not necessarily follow that just because a matter is before a court every aspect of it must be sub judice and beyond the limits of permissible debate in Parliament. That would be too restrictive of the rights of Parliament. Within those limits, the debate may proceed. 
If it was not contrary to the practice of the Senate and to proper principles that a debate on the laws under which a man was currently awaiting sentence in the courts should proceed, then it seems to me that no circumstances^ - however uncertain, imprecise and lacking any real knowledge - which have been raised by the Government tonight should prevent this debate from taking place. Because he is now the Attorney-General and because he spoke on the point of order which was raised before  Sir Alister  McMullin, let me refer to what  Senator Murphy  said at the time. He accepts, on what he said, that even if the sub judice rule applies that in itself is no reason, if the national welfare requires it, why the Parliament should not deal with the matter. That, I say respectfully, is the common sense approach.  Senator Murphy  said at that time: 
. you balance the question of how it should be dealt with, whether the National Parliament should go ahead to deal with it, notwithstanding that there was some private litigation or public litigation in the courts, because the national welfare may require that National Parliament should do so. 
We have heard a specious argument from Government senators who desire to cloak this debate with subterfuge and noise. I think they ought to have some regard for the proprieties of this place and use a point of order only where it is appropriate to do so. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order!  Senator Gietzelt,  you can discuss only the point of order. 
The mere agreement of this Senate to debate the issue involved in  Senator Gair's  very lengthy procedural motion would prejudice the case of Wilfred Burchett. I understand, from what has happened in the brief period of time that I have been a member of this chamber, that we must not reflect upon another person. One learns from reading Hansard that there is a behaviour pattern in the other place which lays down that persons not able to be present shall not be reflected upon in any of the debates. The proposal contained in  Senator Gair's  motion establishes a very dangerous precedent for the Houses of Parliament. If you do not uphold the point of order that is before you,  Mr Deputy President,  you will establish the principle that at any time any majority in the House of Representatives or in this Senate shall have the right to sit in judgment upon a fellow member of the Parliament or upon any citizen. In that respect I think you are entitled to accept the advice that has been given to you by  Senator James  McClelland. 
I think we are entitled also to examine the motivation of those honourable senators who support the discussion of this matter. Clearly members of the Opposition have caucused, clearly they have determined an attitude, and clearly they have in mind a strategy on this matter. This evening at 8 o'clock this Senate unanimously - with the approval of all those present - agreed to establish a number of standing committees of this Senate. Those standing committees were the subject of a notice of motion submitted by  Senator Murphy  on the first day on which we met. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order!  Senator Gietzelt,  you are getting right away from the matter before the Chair. You are referring to another matter altogether. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - I propose to rule on the point of order. I have heard the debate from both sides. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Will the honourable senator please resume his seat. I propose to rule on the point of order. The motion before the. Chair is a procedural one relating to the order of business, and it is in order. I agree in a general way with what  Senator James  McClelland had to say about a matter being sub judice, but that matter does not arise in the present debate which is purely a procedural one. I rule that the motion is in order. However, honourable senators must keep their remarks relevant to the procedural matters before the Chair. Had honourable senators heeded my earlier request, this matter would not have arisen. 
I move: 
That the ruling be dissented from.  (Senator Wheeldon having submitted in writing his objection to the ruling)  - 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Order! Is the motion seconded? 
Motion (by  Senator Wheeldon)  agreed to: 
That the motion for dissent requires immediate determination. 

 - Mr Deputy President, it is with some reluctance that I move dissent from your ruling but I do so because I believe that it is incorrect and because it concerns an important principle as far as the conduct of the Senate is concerned. As I understand the basis of your ruling it is that the matter which is now before the Senate is not one which could be sub judice because it is a procedural matter dealing with the order of business on the notice paper. This, . I understand, is the submission by those honourable senators who have supported your ruling, and I understand this to be your own position from what you have just said. I would submit, in support of the motion which I have just moved, that this is a narrow and inadequate interpretation of the Standing Orders and of the principles which have been laid down by way of precedent. Although it is true that what is now before the Senate is a procedural motion, the fact remains that the motion which is being debated concerns another motion which in itself embodies the imputation of very serious charges against  Mr Wilfred  Burchett. It asks whether he has been associated with the Russian secret police; whether he interrogated people in Korea; whether he was working for the Government of North Vietnam in opposing Australian forces in South Vietnam; and whether he has committed any offence and, if so, what that offence is. All these are quite specific matters which will be published in Hansard and in the records of the Senate and which will be given publicity throughout the country. 
It is of no use honourable senators saying this is a procedural matter concerning the establishment of a Senate committee, as was argued earlier by  Senator Wright.  The position is, naturally, that you are not going to be moving motions like this in relation to any citizen. Clearly if a motion is moved for the appointment of a select committee to inquire into the conduct of some person and into whether or not he is guilty of some offences against the law there has to be at least a supposition that there is a prima facie case that he has engaged in these activities and that he has committed some offences against the law. To say that this does not find him guilty is clearly a misapprehension of the whole matter as it will be interpreted by anyone who listens to the broadcast of these proceedings. Mention has been made of a writ for defamation issued by  Mr Burchett  against  Senator Kane,  and the information available to the Government is that the subject matter of the writ concerns defamatory statements similar to those which are implied in the text of the resolution of which notice has been given tonight. I have further information relating to whether the matter is sub judice. We have been in touch with  Mr Frank  Galbally of the firm Galbally &amp; 0'Bryan solicitors of Melbourne, and he has informed us- 
Are you reflecting on  Mr Galbally? Mr Deputy President,  that is an extraordinary comment. I must confess it was rather unusual to hear an honourable senator start making comments about the character of counsel involved in an action.  Mr Galbally  has said that a writ has been issued by  Mr Burchett  against Herald and Weekly Times Ltd as a result of an article which was published in a newspaper of that company and which was written by  Mr Denis  Warner, and also a letter which was written by a  Mr Peter  Frankel which was also published in the company's newspaper, and that part of or all the matters which were referred to in this article and in this letter are the subject of the motion of which notice had been given by  Senator Gair. 

 - Mr Deputy President, will it be all right if I interrupt  Senator Gair?  The matters involved in the writ for defamation, according to  Mr Galbally's  recollection - he is at home now and does not have his files in front of him - are similar, if not the same, as the matters contained in the motion which has been moved by  Senator Gair.  It seems to me to be perfectly clear that it is prejudicial to any person involped in litigation to have his name linked in any way with a motion such as this one. Whether one is debating the substance of it or is merely putting it on the notice paper, there is an implication that there is at least a prima facie supposition of guilt - otherwise there would not be such a notice of motion on the notice paper. It would not be on the notice paper at all unless some honourable senator believed there was some substance in the allegations which are made. 
For that reason I submit to the Senate that your ruling is out of order insofar as the matter which is now before the Senate does reflect on  Mr Wilfred  Burchett who is the plaintiff in at least 2 actions which are pending in courts of this country. 
My question arises from some comments which have been made in the Senate during question time. I ask the Attorney-General: Did the Commonwealth Police at any stage during the past week make searches of any private homes or any premises other than Commonwealth property without being in possession of search warrants? 
I do not wish to prolong the discussion of this matter unduly, but I would like to say, as one who has been a member of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee for over 3 years now, that I believe  Senator Wood  has made a memorable contribution to parliamentary government in this country. The Committee of which he was  Chairman  for so long is probably the most important committee of this Parliament. The role which it performs is a role which is essential to parliamentary democratic government. The role of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee is to see that no arbitrary action is taken by the Executive, whichever government may be in office, and that matters of substantive law may be imposed upon the people of Australia only by proper forms which provide for legislation by decision of the whole of the Parliament, except in very rare instances where authority is given to the Executive so to act.  Senator Wood  has approached this question as a parliamentarian and as one who believes in the authority of Parliament, which ultimately is the authority of the people. For that reason, I believe he has made a major contribution to democracy in this country. He has approached every question with complete objectivity. Every issue which has come before the Committee he has looked at as someone who has been appointed to uphold the authority of Parliament, to uphold the authority of the democratic system and to oppose the arbitrary exercise of Executive power. For doing this, I think his name is one which should be long remembered in the history of this country. 
I  do not wish to engage in the vulgar abuse which  Senator Wright  directed against  Senator Turnbull  but there are some things which the Senate should deal with in considering the matter raised this evening by  Senator Greenwood.  The matter raised by him this evening undoubtedly was raised in order to deflect attention from other much more serious matters which have come before the chamber, but I think it is very interesting to try to discover precisely what the Opposition is trying to do. What is alleged by members of the Opposition? They allege that late at night - apparently that upsets them; apparently they subscribe to some sort of curfew - the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy),  the principal law officer of the Commonwealth, attended the premises of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, an organisation constituted by Act of this Parliament. It was given a charter by this Parliament; that charter being established by an Act of this Parliament. Section  5  of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Act sets out the functions of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and its Director-General. Section  5 (1.)  (c) states specifically that the functions of the Organisation are:   . . to co-operate with such Departments of State and authorities of the Commonwealth and, so far as is practicable, with such Departments and authorities of the States and of other countries as are capable of assisting the Organisation in the performance of its functions. 
Its functions are to preserve the security of this country, and the Attorney-General is the Minister of this Government who is empowered to preserve the law and order about which the previous Attorney-General so often spoke and for which so often he showed his contempt. It has been alleged that the Attorney-General visited the offices of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation late at night in company with members of the Commonwealth Police Force - not, it will be noted, in company with members of the Australian Labor Party, in company with members of the Waterside Workers Federation, in company with members of the Communist Party or in company with staff of the Yugoslav Embassy, but in company with members of the Commonwealth Police Force. 
Yes,  27  members of the Commonwealth Police Force, as  Senator Little  has awakened from his slumbers to advise me. It is rather curious  that  members of the Opposition, who were recently driven from the government because of their attitude towards questions like this and who purport this evening to be defending the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, should show their hatred and contempt for the Commonwealth Police Force by suggesting that there is something improper in the presence of Commonwealth policemen in the offices of ASIO. I would be very interested to learn from  Senator Wright, Senator Greenwood  and other honourable senators opposite precisely what are the nature of the allegations which they wish to make against those 27 officers of the Commonwealth Police Force. Do they believe that they are people who should not have this information? Are they saying that the people of Australia should not have reliance on the Commonwealth Police Force? That is the only interpretation one can draw from their continual mention of the number of members of the Commonwealth Police Force who were present on this occasion. 
One would have thought, as members of the party of law and order, that the presence of these Commonwealth policemen, on whom they used to rely in order to send to gaol people who would not fight their wars for them in Vietnam, would have delighted them. One would have thought that they would have been delighted that members of the Commonwealth Police Force were present. One would have thought that  Senator Greenwood  and the party of law and order would have said: 'We might have had some doubts about this, but there were 27 members of the Commonwealth Police Force there, so it must have been all right'. But what have they said? How have they established that there was something wrong with what happened? They have said: 'It must have been terrible. It must have been crook. There were 27 members of the Commonwealth Police Force there'. That is what we have heard from the party of law and order. 
What are honourable senators opposite alleging? They are alleging that the AttorneyGeneral extracted some information from the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. The people whom they appointed to high office in the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation  -  I do not criticise them for this; I do not think it should be unlawful to subscribe to the policies of the Liberal Party of Australia - were people whom they knew to be close to the policies of the Liberal Party because they knew that they were the sort of people who would be more interested in prosecuting an 18-year-old who would not go to fight in Vietnam than in prosecuting those people who were attempting by violence to overthrow the government of a country with which this country has diplomatic relations. They are suggesting to us that the Attorney-General of a democratically elected government - a government democratically elected only last December - should not have available to him information in the possession of an office which was allegedly created for the protection of security in this country. That is what they are saying. 
Mention has been made by some of a police state. The mind boggles at the audacity of people who say that there is a police state in existence when a democratically elected Minister knows what the police are doing. Apparently their concept of democracy is having a political police force whose activities are secret to the Attorney-General. Their concept of a democratic, properly run society is one in which those police officers appointed by an outgoing government should not be responsible, should not report and should not be visited by the Attorney-General of the incoming government. That, of course, is the complete reverse of a police state. A police state is a state in which the police or quasi police organisations have authority over the democratically elected government. The reverse of a police state is that society in which democratically elected officials have authority over the police. That is what those people are complaining about. They are complaining about the fact that the AttorneyGeneral of a democratically elected Labor Government should know what the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation is doing. 
Apparently honourable senators opposite are now complaining that the Attorney-General has said nothing critical of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. They are saying: 'It is shocking that he went along there and yet he has defended ASIO tonight. He has not said anything against ASIO'. Apparently that surprises them. Apparently their view was that anybody who went into ASIO would have plenty to complain about They are rather astonished that the AttorneyGeneral did not have anything to say about 
ASIO. That has hurt them. What are honourable senators opposite trying to say? Why do they suggest that the Attorney-General should have gone there? This has been implicit in the questions which they have asked this afternoon. What they have been implying but what nobody on this side of the chamber has been implying - with perhaps the exception of  Senator Turnbull,  insofar as he can be regarded as being on this side of the chamber, which he is geographically but not in many other respects - is that the AttorneyGeneral would have gone to ASIO only if he had been tipped off that somebody at ASIO was concealing something. 
They are saying that as if it is an indictment of the Attorney-General. By way of complaint they are saying: 'You would not have gone there unless you thought you would find something.' What an extraordinary complaint. They are saying: 'How badly the Attorney-General has behaved.' They are saying that someone has told the AttorneyGeneral that his law enforcement officers are concealing information from him and that he went to ASIO and got it. What an awful thing to do. What a horrible thing to do. These unfortunate people were safely concealing information and this wretched AttorneyGeneral, relying merely on the vote of over one-half of the people of Australia - that was all he was relying on - goes around there and takes their information from them. Supporters of the Government have not said that. That is what members of the Opposition said. If it is not what they have said, what have they said? What are they complaining about? What are they saying is improper about the AttorneyGeneral's visit to the offices of ASIO? 
We know very well the reliance which members of right wing panties have placed on ASIO. I do not want to involve the AttorneyGeneral in any of these matters. We have not heard members of the Opposition referring to the article which appeared in the 'National Times' a week ago which alleged that a journalist was approached by a Liberal Party member of Parliament and a Country Party member of Parliament, who had been offered ASIO information in order to blackguard members of the Labor Party. Honourable senators opposite have not had anything to say about the case which was reported in this morning's Press of  Mr Sgro,  a member of the Australian Labor Party in Victoria and a member of the Painters Union, who was 
Ex- AttorneyGeneral. That was a most unfortunate error. I apologise to the Attorney-General. I do not apologise to the ex-Attorney-General. 
I can assure  Senator Greenwood  not only that he has lost his place but also that he will never get it back. The Attorney-General set himself up tonight as the champion of civil liberties. 
Yes, the former Attorney-General set himself up as the champion of civil liberties, the man who presided over the administration of a department which repeatedly refused naturalisation to citizens of this country who had never been convicted of any offence. The former Attorney-General refused entry visas to many persons who wanted to come to this country - without any charges being made, without any follow through ever being made and without anyone ever being told why they were not being allowed to come to this country. These were the actions of the previous Government for more than 20 years. Yet tonight its supporters pose here as the champions of civil liberty. 
They let South Africans in, admittedly; I am glad  Senator Cant  reminded me of that. They let in some people. They let in ex-Nazis; they let in exmembers of the SS; they let in ex-members of the Ustasha. Certainly they let in some people, and no explanation was given. They kept out other people and no explanation was given for that either. What has the AttorneyGeneral tried to do? 
I am talking about the present Attorney-General at the moment. What has the Attorney-General tried to do? Apparently he has tried to extract some information from the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. He went to its office late at night. Apparently it was too late for some senators opposite, although apparently time does not always worry them, because one remembers that when they were in government they were quite happy to have somebody's house searched on Christmas Day when they thought a draft-dodger was there. I do not think they ought to be too sensitive about the time at which visits are made to people's premises. In order to justify the complaint about the Attorney-General's trying to find out what is going on inside the security organisation of this country we have been treated to a plethora of balderdash. 
We have heard people talking about raids taking place without search warrants. Why does the Attorney-General need a search warrant to go into the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation? If he did need a search warrant to go in there, it shows a remarkable lack of competency on the part of the DirectorGeneral that he was not aware of this and did not refuse to hand over the documents. If  a  search warrant were required one would have thought that the Director-General himself would have known about this and would have said: 'You cannot have the documents. Where is your search warrant?' But he did not say this because no search warrant was required. Is it to be suggested that if the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  visits the Tariff Board at midnight, or Christmas Day or at any other time he has to take a search warrant with him when he goes there? Is that what honourable senators opposite will say? Will they say that if an honourable senator goes along late to have the tea and scones which are served in such a mediocre fashion in the dining room he has to have a search warrant with him to get into the place? Thu apparently is what honourable senators opposite are suggesting. They have said that private homes were raided without search warrants. Which private houses were raided without search warrants? 

 - Senator Hannan is going to tell us about a private house that was raided without a search warrant. 
At first he was going to tell us about it but now he has changed his mind. He intends to keep it to himself, apparently while he considers his verdict.  Senator Hannan  did interject to some effect that apparently somebody's house was raided without a search warrant but on second thoughts he decided that it was not after all. These are the sorts of interjections that we heard this afternoon. Whose houses were raided without search warrants? 

 - Senator Rae spoke for more than an hour and he did not tell us whose house was raided without a search warrant. If there were some malpractice let us hear about it, because I can assure the Senate that I am no more keen on the Commonwealth Police raiding anybody's house without a search warrant , than the Liberal Party pretends to be now. Honourable senators opposite were quite happy about the absence of search warrants when they were able to make raids under the Crimes Act in relation to breaches of the National Service Act. I did not hear any objection then about the absence of search warrants. This sudden discovery of search warrants by the Opposition is edifying but somehow unconvincing. 
But all of these matters have been completely spurious. What has happened is that the Attorney-General of the Commonwealth has visited the offices of ASIO and there obtained certain information. That is all that has happened. That is the only information that is available. There have .been certain Press reports which have said one thing and then said another, but the only cold hard facts that are known are that the Attorney-General visited the office of ASIO and that the Director-General - the Attorney-General has said this himself - did not conceal from him any information. Nor have we heard any complaint from the Director-General. If the Director-General is  a  man of principle; if it is true, as is either alleged or implied by everybody who has spoken from the opposite side, that there has been some breach of the Act, that the 
Attorney-General has behaved improperly; if the Director-General knows his law and if he is a man of integrity, why has he not offered his resignation? 
Surely a man with any integrity who believes that he was placed in such an impossible situation - that his Attorney-General was behaving improperly, coming in without search warrants or whatever it is that he ought to have, taking away documents and dealing with him in some scandalous manner - would not tolerate such a position. I know that I certainly would not tolerate such a position if the facts as alleged by the Opposition were proved to be true. But clearly they are not the facts and the Opposition senators do not have one shred of evidence to justify the things they have been saying. What they have been doing tonight is attempting to divert attention from another document which has been pesented and which thoroughly discredits the former Government -  - 
Does the AttorneyGeneral recollect that when  Senator Greenwood  was Attorney-General, and during the period of office of the previous government, members of the Liberal and Country Parties refused to answer any questions concerning the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation on the ground that it was contrary to the nation's security? Has he noticed that members of the Liberal and Country Parties apparently now believe that there should be detailed inquiries into the operations of ASIO? Has he received any advice from the Leader of the Opposition or from any of his colleagues as to why it should be that it was contrary to the nation's security to ask questions about ASIO while Ohe Liberal and Country Parties were in government but it is not contrary to the nation's interest to ask such questions when Labor is in office? 
 One of the disappointing aspects of the debate which has taken place on the proposed disallowance of the rules under the Matrimonial Causes Act has been the approach which has been adopted by honourable senators opposite. If they had serious arguments as to why the rules should be disallowed in view of the great support which has been expressed for them by bodies such as the divorce law reform associations throughout the various States with many thousands of members, one would have thought that one would have heard some very closely reasoned legal arguments about the specific imperfections which honourable senators opposite allege are contained in the amendment of the rules. But we have not heard that. What we have heard has been a series of personal attacks on the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy).  The last effort was that of  Senator Durack  who clearly hoped to divert attention from some serious troubles in which the Opposition has found itself over the past few days. There has been a total absence of any analysis of the matters upon which honourable senators opposite told us they had such strong views and upon which they had such convincing legal arguments to offer to the Senate. I think it is rather revealing to look at the remarks of  Senator Wright  when he moved the disallowance of the rules. In conclusion he stated: 
Finally, I say that the disallowance in no sense implies opposition to reasonable and well considered reform. 
In fact, the impression which  Senator Wright  would like to give to the Senate is that he is a liberal, forward thinking lawyer; that he is looking forward to speedy, fundamental advances and amendments to an obsolete divorce law. But what really bothers him are some technical imperfections which are to be found in the rules now before the Senate. It is rather curious that the honourable senator should try to give this impression because if one refers to 1965 when some amendments to the Matrimonial Causes Act were before the Senate - amendments introduced by the then Government - one finds that  Senator Wright  was then adopting the pose of the independent rebel. Some of the more recently appointed senators probably are not familiar with that role.  Senator Wright  has not always been the light heavyweight champion of the upper dog, the role which he has followed during the time of the past Goverment. There was a time, at least until there appeared to be a vote taking place, when he used to posture a little as some sort of independent, but when he became a Minister he promptly forgot about that role.  Senator Wright's  contribution to the debate on the Bill to amend the Matrimonial Causes Act which came before the Senate in 1965 commenced in this way: 
I pay tribute to a government - 
That was his own Government or the Government of which he was a backbencher-   . . that finds time to deal with matters so unimportant as those that are collected in this Bill. I do not disparage it by making that remark. 1 think it is an exceedingly trivial Bill but I suppose it is desirable . . . 
In fact,  Senator Gorton,  as he then was, was handling the Bill in the Senate and he felt constrained to reply to this comment rater. He said: 
I must say that I disagree with  Senator Wright,  both on this point and on other points which have been raised by him, not on legal grounds but on his description of some of them as trivial. Although in the grand sweep of a nation's problems they may not be very great, they are not trivial to individuals who get caught up in the toils of these matters. They are of great significance to them and their whole lives and these things might well engage our attention. 
I agree with what the then  Senator Gorton  said at that time and I believe that these words ought to be remembered now. These are not trivial matters that come before us in these rules and  Senator Wright  has shown in the past that he believes that amendments to the law relating to divorce, including amendment to the Act, which was what was being done on this previous occasion, ought to be opposed and derided no matter which Government introduces them. On that occasion one of the propositions which was before the Senate was an amendment to the Matrimonial Causes Act to make provision for periods of reconciliation for up to 3 months. Under the amendment if persons who were separated were to resume cohabitation for a period of no longer than 3 months, this would not preclude them from obtaining a divorce on the grounds of condonation of the matrimonial offence which had occurred before that 3 months' period of cohabitation. As I recollect it only one member of the Senate spoke against that amendment to the Matrimonial Causes Act - a very advanced amendment to the Act. And who was that one senator who opposed it? It was  Senator Wright  who now tries to tell us that he is all in favour of divorce law reform but he just does not like the way it was done by these rules. 
A great deal of play has been made tonight of the suggestion that this should be done by some sort of amendment to the Matrimonial Causes Act itself, that it should not be done by amending the rules. In fact,  Senator Durack  has accused the members of the Labor Party of being inconsistent because, he said, there is on the notice paper at present a reference to a disallowance made last year by the Australian Labor Party of the Australian Capital Territory Evidence Ordinance when the Australian Labor Party said that this was a matter which contained substantive law and therefore it ought to be part of an Act of Parliament and not included in the ordinance.  Senator Durack  said that the Labor Party is inconsistent in now wishing to amend the matrimonial causes rules when last year it said that these ought to be matters of substantive legislation. Of course, the problem which can come as a result of accusing somebody of inconsistency on these matters is that one exposes oneself to a charge of inconsistency. If  Senator Durack  is now saying it was inconsistent for the Labor Party to insist that the evidence ordinance ought to be the subject of legislation and not the subject of an ordinance then surely it is even more inconsistent for him to have insisted that the new evidence law for the Australian Capital Territory should be the subject of an ordinance and not part of legislation. Yet he tells us tonight that these rules ought to bc amended by legislation. lt seems to me that those honourable senators who have said that this should be done by way of substantive legislation clearly have not understood the nature of the matrimonial causes rules. We are not introducing a whole new set of rules, trying to do by rule or regulation something which is normally done by legislation. There is already a substantial body of matrimonial causes rules. It is said there is something improper in amending the matrimonial causes rules in order to do away with a discretion statement. If it is improper to amend the matrimonial causes rules to do away with a discretion statement, why is it improper to have a provision for a discretion statement included in the matrimonial causes rules? The reason why we are dealing with discretion statements at all is that the matrimonial causes rules at present provide for a discretion statement - and apparently  Sir Garfield  Barwick and the then Government did nol feel that the matter of a discretion statement ought to be in the Act. Had they done so, surely they would have put it in the Act. The only reason we come to a discretion statement is that at present it is included in the matrimonial causes rules themselves and that we are dealing with a matter which has been dealt with since the original passage of the Commonwealth Matrimonial Causes Act in 1959 by the use of the rules. 
It seems that the members of the Opposition Parties are so eager to defeat the Government on this issue - a matter on which they believe they have the numbers - that they do not mind contradicting themselves, and when they do contradict one another they make no pains whatsoever to make any sort of explanation as to how their differences may be reconciled.  Senator Durack  said that although he does not think that the discretion statement should be removed by amendment of the rules, nonetheless he apparently, as a member of the Senate Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee, was in favour of the abolition of the discretion statement.  Senator Carrick,  on the other hand, has told the Senate that discretion statements are essential, that if we abolish the discretion statement we will encourage solicitors to encourage in turn their clients to commit per jury. There is clearly a total breakdown of communication between  Senator Durack  and  Senator Carrick  on this point. It would be interesting to hear from some spokesman for the Opposition a statement as to what is the Opposition view on discretion statements. Do Opposition senators support the Carrick view or do they support the Durack view? One says there should not be discretion statements; one says there should be discretion statements. 
Possibly  Senator Wright  has the same difficulty understanding his colleagues as he has understanding the Government. However,  1  would suggest to him that if he reads Hansard he will find that  Senator Carrick  has argued against the abolition of discretion statements in any form whereas  Senator Durack  has offered argument for the abolition of discretion statements but in a different form from the manner in which it has been done by the Government. 
I ask for withdrawal of that remark. 
If 1 may say so, this indicates the level of discussion which  Senator Wright  has been introducing into this chamber ever since he suffered his defeat. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Brown)  -  Senator Wheeldon,  you will direct your remarks through the Chair. 
I am directing my remarks to you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  This is the sort of snide, underhand character assassination that one can expect from  Senator Wright.  I challenge him to make a statement of that kind about me outside this chamber. I refute that allegation. It is an allegation which I certainly have never made about any member of this chamber and it shows how obsessed he is with attacking the Australian Labor Party.  His  making a comment of this kind in a debate of this nature is completely uncalled for. This is the respect which he has for this Parliament. 
Now we hear  Senator Greenwood  interjecting, he who last night told us how much he deplored the smear - but he would applaud that remark by  Senator Wright.  He is the man who deplores the smear. I think nothing could be more indicative of what the Opposition Parties are trying to do in this debate. They are not endeavouring to have a serious discussion of the matters that are before the Senate. They are seeking merely to blackguard and traduce the Attorney-General and members of the Australian Labor Party. They do not care how contemptible or inaccurate their interjections and statements are or how much they are in disrespect of the Parliament. 
I can deal with  Senator Wright.  We heard him in silence. I can assure you,  Mr Deputy President,  that  Senator Wright  would be the last person to worry me. In dealing with the rules  Senator Durack  said that somehow or other we are imposing an amendment to the divorce law by a backdoor method; that to amend the rules is a backdoor method. I would have thought that any lawyer would have known that a substantial body of law is to be found in rules. I have in mind the rules of supreme courts and local courts and under Acts such as the Matrimonial Causes Act. It is impossible for us in any way to introduce changes of substantive law by amending the rules. All the matters we are amending in the rules are matters which are dealt with by the Act itself when it refers to the rules and concerning which power is given to the Government to act because the original Act of 1959, which was introduced by a Liberal Attorney-General, made provision for certain matters to be the subject of rules. We are not dealing with any matters other than those which were prescribed in the Act of 1959 as being matters which should be subject to rules. 

 Senator Durack criticised, as a number of other speakers have done, the proposition that there should be a separation of the claim for principal relief and the claim for ancilliary relief.  Senator Durack  made what appeared to him to be great play of some difference that he discovers in the separation of the claim and the separation of the hearing. Whether he has satisfied anybody in the Senate on that point, I do not know. He has certainly not satisfied me about the distinction. It seems to me to be a distinction without a difference. It may well be that  Mr Watson  Q.C. and other lawyers oppose separate hearings for the principal relief and matters relating to custody, maintenance and matrimonial property, but there is no doubt that some of the strongest evidence which was given to the Constitutional and Legal Committee on this matter was given by  Mr Justice  Selby, the Chief Judge in Divorce of the Supreme Court of New South Wales. He is probably the most experienced jurist on matrimonial law in the whole of the Commonwealth. 

 Mr Justice Selby was quite adamant that one essential reform was the separation of the hearings for principal relief and ancillary relief. The evidence given to the Committee was to the effect that so often hearings for principal relief were cluttered up and impeded because people were not really arguing about the divorce itself but about who owned the house, the car or the BHP shares; that it would be a much better state of affairs to have a hearing in which the divorce was granted - if it were to be granted - and that after that had been done and tension removed, the parties could then reasonably approach questions concerning their property; and that it was much better that they should approach those matters after having been divorced as they were more likely to come to reasonable arrangements once the trauma of the divorce itself had passed. 

 - Senator Little doubts  Mr Justice  Selby's logic. Not many people have those doubts. I think most people who have some knowledge of the law regard  Mr Justice  Selby as being a very logical judge, a man of great erudition with a very sound grasp not only of logic but also of the questions relating to divorce which come before him. As one who has had some experience in the field of matrimonial law I believe it is clearly a fact that more often than not, when divorce is being contemplated, the parties involved are not arguing so much about whether one of them loves the other or does not, or why the arguments started, but about what is to happen to the refrigerator, to the house, the country cottage and the shares. These matters have cast a blight over divorce proceedings and they are matters which the Government is endeavouring to improve. 
As  Senator James  McClelland said earlier it is quite absurd to say that the changes should have been the subject of legislation. We have seen the obstructive tactics of the Opposition in the period of less than 4 weeks that  we  have been sitting when we have dealt with matters of legislation. Certainly it would have been an absurdity for us to have said that an amendment to the Matrimonial Causes Act was the No. 1 priority of the newly elected Labor Government. However important it is, it would have to be well down on our list of priorities. But as the Government we do have power in this Parliament to make substantial improvements in the existing body of divorce law by amendments to the rules, by the proclamation of new rules. That is what we have done and what the Opposition is attempting to resist. That is why many thousands of people throughout Australia are becoming stronger and stronger in support of this Government and more and more contemptuous of the Opposition parties. 
Is the Minister for the Media aware that a number of people in Western Australia who wish to listen to the serious programs on Australian Broadcasting Commission radio, such as classical music, plays and talks, have been inconvenienced due to the fact that the ABC has ceased the publication of the radio guide which previously was published in that State? Is he aware also that although one of the Sunday newspapers in Western Australia for some time did publish detailed radio programs this practice has ceased over recent weeks? Can the Minister take some steps to bring about the reintroduction of publication of the ABC radio programs in Western Australia? 
I do not intend to weary the chamber by speaking at anything like the length at which  Senator Greenwood  has just spoken but there are some things which I believe ought to be said about this matter.  Senator Greenwood  has said that it somehow reflects discredit upon the Senate that it is necessary for this Bill to be before the Senate today. In fact, the actions which led to this matter coming before the Senate today were taken as a majority vote by members of the Senate at a time when the Australian Labor Party numbered only 26 of the 60 senators present in this chamber. A substantial number of senators other than members of the Labor Party supported the rejection of the Australian Capital Territory Evidence Ordinance, which has led to this Bill being introduced. 
It is rather laughable, having heard tor most of yesterday and this morning from honourable senators opposite about how disgraceful it is that the Matrimonial Causes Rules should be amended by additional rules, and how important it is that important matters of substantive law should be dealt with by legislation, that  Senator Greenwood,  despite the defeat which his Party suffered on this matter earlier in the Senate, should now once again be saying to us that a matter so important as the Australian Capital Territory Evidence Ordinance should not have been dealt with by legislation. For 2 days Opposition senators have been telling us how important it is to have legislation and not regulation, yet what we hear today is some argument about how much better it would have been to have had it done by ordinance and that somehow it reflects little credit on the Senate in saying that this important piece of legislation should have been dealt with by an Act of Parliament and not by ordinance. 
It is an important piece of legislation, lt is not sufficient merely to say that the ordinance applies to the Australian Capital Territory, that it is a local matter which is not of national concern. It is of national concern. The Government acknowledges, as it did when in Opposition, that the proposals for a new law of evidence for the Australian Capital Territory were of very great importance. We believe that they could and, in fact, should act as a pattern, if we agree that they are properly drafted and contain matters of substantive law, for the laws of evidence for the whole of the Commonwealth, because in matters of criminal law and the law of evidence it must be obvious that the Commonwealth Parliament, with the much greater resources available to it, should be setting a pattern for the States which do not have the same resources available to them. 
For that reason not only Labor senators but a majority of honourable senators disallowed the ordinance when it was before the Senate in 1971 and the Act had to be introduced in order to make provision for laws of evidence inside the Australian Capital Territory. In fact this Act which, to all intents and purposes, is being renewed by the Bill which is before the Senate today was introduced only because of the initiative of  Senator Murphy.  But for  Senator Murphy's  action there would have been no law of evidence in the Australian Capital Territory.  Senator Greenwood,  who has been speaking in such a derogatory manner about the Leader of the Government in the Senate, did not have sufficient wit at the time to handle the matter and if the conduct of the nation's laws had been left in his hands without the assistance of the Opposition, as it then was, there would have been no law of evidence for the Australian Capital Territory. 
However the position was salvaged after a majority of honourable senators rejected the evidence ordinance, not because of the substance of that ordinance necessarily, but because we believed that it ought to be dealt with by an Act of Parliament. But after it had been rejected it was through the initiative of the Opposition that the legislation was passed. The Bil) was passed when it was referred to the House of Representatives from the Senate at a time when the previous Government, now the Opposition, had a majority in that House. Instead of endeavouring to deflect attention from himself and some of his many other misdeeds as Attorney-General,  Senator Greenwood  should have had the decency to pay a tribute to  Senator Murphy  and the action of the then Opposition in supplying evidence law for the Australian Capital Territory by introducing a Bill which became an Act and made certain that laws of evidence would apply inside the Australian Capital Territory. 

 Senator Greenwood has told us that despite the fact that some undertakings were given we still have not introduced a Bill to embody what ought to be provided in respect of evidence law for the Australian Capita] Territory. That is the second time we have heard this claim. Yesterday and this morning we were told that top priority should have been allotted to the Matrimonial Causes Act. Now we are told that top priority in our legislative program as the new Labor Government should have been an evidence Act for the Australian Capital Territory. Is it seriously suggested that the Matrimonial Causes Act and the law relating to evidence in the Australian Capital Territory should have been the first things dealt with by the Government? 
If the Opposition is so keen on having legislation brought before the Parliament it should not have wasted the time of the Senate with a nonsensical motion about Wilfred Burchett. It should have endeavoured to ensure that legislation would come through this chamber. The whole plan of the Opposition has been to sabotage Labor's legislation up to the point where one might ask to see the colour of the Opposition's money by having a double dissolution, by going back to the people of Australia and asking them what they think. We are proud of the action we took on the evidence ordinance. We believe that it should have been disallowed, because it is a matter for substantive legislation. We intend to introduce substantive legislation to deal with the matter. The purpose of this Bill is to make provision for the continuance of the law of evidence in the Australian Capital Territory. This provision would never have been made had it been left in the hands of the former Attorney-General,  Senator Greenwood,  and the defunct government of which he was a member. 
I think it is rather significant that twice during the course of his remarks tonight  Senator Wright  used the same phrase - an unoriginal one - a farrago of fact and falsehood. This is a reminiscent phrase because it is the very phrase which was used by persons involved in the Royal Commission which resulted from the defection of Vladimir Petrov in 1954. It is rather curious that  Senator Wright  should appear here tonight as the champion of civil liberties, the champion of non-interference in the political opinions of persons resident in Australia, when one well remembers that he was a member of the Government party which was responsible for the waves of red baiting, of police terrorism, police scrutiny, police investigation and police discrimination which took place right through the 1950s, the 1960s and the (first 3 years of the 1970s. Also, it is rather interesting that the Opposition has been somewhat- 
Also it is significant that the Opposition has been somewhat reluctant to debate the issues which were raised in the statement made to the Senate by the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy).  It has been much more inclined to debate what it describes as the raid on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. It has been very reluctant indeed to debate the hard facts contained in the documents tabled by the Attorney-General. It has been very anxious to debate the alleged improprieties, and not only improprieties but, according to the Opposition, illegalities involved in the so called raid on ASIO. We have heard the question asked: 'Why did the Attorney-General go to the Canberra office of ASIO?'. It appears to me that the only sensible retort is: 'Why should he not go to the Canberra office of ASIO?'. Does the Opposition believe that because it was the mainstay of ASIO, because it appointed the top officials, that ASIO is forever its permanent property and that a member of the Australian Labor Party, even the Attorney-General who is the principal law officer of the Commonwealth is acting improperly in visiting ASIO? 

 Senator Wright has claimed that the Attorney General has acted illegally in going to the office of ASIO and as proof of his criminal behaviour the Attorney-General took with him 27 Commonwealth policemen. In fact,  Senator Wright  has embroidered a little because he has made them 30 Commonwealth, policemen. The evidence of the illegal behaviour of the Attorney-General is the fact that 27 Commonwealth policemen were present. To me this seems to be saying 2 most extraordinary things. The first is that the Commonwealth police force, engaged in an illegal activity in going into ASIO. Apparently that charge is being levelled against the Commonwealth Police, the Commissioner and the 27 Commonwealth policemen who attended the ASIO office. Apparently the party of law and order now has so little respect for law and order that it wishes to accuse the Commonwealth police of illegal actions. But not only that, what is the Opposition saying about ASIO? Apparently it is saying that the Director-General of Security was himself unaware of the law. Surely if the law is as  Senator Wright  and his colleagues say it is, then the Director-General of ASIO should have been fully aware of the situation. If warrants were required, as honourable senators opposite so fatuously claim, then why did not the Director-General of Security who should know all these things refuse to hand over the documents, to open the safes and to produce the files? If it were an illegal raid and there were no warrants, why did he not do these things? 
Let us see what a serious allegation is being made not only against the Commonwealth police but also against the Director-General of Security and the officers of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation.  Senator Wright  is accusing them of not knowing their own Act and of being so weak and so incompetent to defend the nation's security that when a Minister of a Labor Party government arrives in their office illegally without any authority, they have so little knowledge of the law, of their own charter and of their own rights that the Director-General of Security himself hands over the secret documents - quite illegally - to the Attorney-General. This is the logical consequence of what  Senator Wright  and his friends are saying. They are saying that not only do we have a gangster Commonwealth police force but also we have a gangster ASIO. 
But I do not intend to labour the point of ASIO. I think that the people of Australia are sick and tired of hearing about this so called raid. They want to know what the last Government was doing about bomb throwers. 1 shall say something on the subject of Croatians. I have heard a lot of outrageous statements made by members of the Opposition who say that in saying what we have said and in doing what the Attorney-General has done we have insulted the Croatian community. Apparently the poor little Croatian children who are going to school are being terrorised because of allegations made against certain organisations. This is a most palpable falsehood and red herring. We know that the majority of the Croatian people - not only those in Croatia itself but also those in this country - have nothing whatever to do with these terrorist organisations. Some 80 per cent of the Yugoslav people living in Western Australia, where there is one of the largest Yugoslav communities, are from Croatia; they are Croatians. The overwhelming majority of those people completely repudiate the actions of these Croatian secessionist organisations. If we are insulting Croatians, are we insulting  President  Tito?  President  Tito is a Croat. If we are said to be serving  President  Tito and terrorising the Croats it is rather curious that  President  Tito himself, the  President  of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, is a Croat. Is he also an anti-Croatian? Is he terrorising himself? Is that what the Opposition is trying to tell us? 
We have been told also what fearful things might happen to the immigrants to this country. Apparently not only have the Croatian immigrants been terrified by what has been done but all immigrants have been terrified. They all think they are to be deported because of the dreadful actions of this Labor Government. It is rather unfortunate for Opposition senators that they should have been making precisely that point this day because only this day - I am not divulging any secret knowledge - the parliamentary Labor Party resolved, at the instance of the Government, to amend the Crimes Act to provide that no naturalised Australian citizen shall be deported from this country. For the 23 years that' the present Opposition was in government it was prepared to deport Australian citizens. Within 4 months the Australian Labor Party is preparing legislation to see that no naturalised Australian citizen shall be deported. Yet the Opposition comes in here and says that we are the people who want to deport Australian citizens. 
Some Opposition speakers made reference to the fact that we are to invoke some of the terrible provisions in the Crimes Act, namely, section 30a and section 30c. Opposition senators say that we intend to act under section 30a of the Crimes Act in relation to unlawful organisations and that we intend to legislate for deportation of certain naturalised citizens under section 30c of the Crimes Act. This Act was introduced by a Tory government in 1926 in order to deport officials of the Seamen's Union of Australia. It is an Act which has been on the statute book for the 23 years that Tory governments have been in office in Australia. This very day the Government announced to the Federal parliamentary Labor Party that it intends to repeal section 30a and section 30c of the Crimes Act. Within 4 months of coming to office we are doing what that last pitiful Government failed to do in 23 years. Yet its supporters have the dishonesty to come in here and accuse us of being the people who will deport those who in some way incur our displeasure, when they are the people who introduced that Act, who kept that Act, and who relied on that Act to terrify certain persons in this country - not those engaged in any terrorist activities but those whose political opinions were unpalatable to them and the people they represent in this Parliament. 
It is rather interesting to hear from  Senator Greenwood  that he was unable to say that there was any credible evidence of terrorist organisations in Australia because he did not have sufficient evidence to lay a prosecution and, presumably, sustain a prosecution in the court for the commission of some offence. According to  Senator Greenwood  it is quite improper ever to allege that there is an organisation in existence which has certain purposes related, for example, to the use of terrorism or some other unlawful activity unless there is sufficient evidence to prosecute specific individuals.  Senator Greenwood  has told us this as part of his new posture as  a  champion of civil liberties and as the upholder of the letter of the law. 
If one were to look back to a debate in the Senate not so very long ago - it was less than 3 years ago on 3rd September 1970  -  one would find that on that occasion  Senator 
Greenwood, the civil libertarian, was arguing very strongly against the allowing of an entry visa to Australia to the American comedian, Dick Gregory. What was the argument that civil liberties Greenwood was putting forward on that occasion? I would like to read this in full to give honourable senators an opportunity to listen to it because I do not want to be accused of leaving anything out. It is very revealing as to the attitude of the past Government and of  Senator Greenwood  in particular. In this debate about whether  Mr Dick  Gregory should be admitted to Australia,  Senator Greenwood  said: 
Let me mention a few things which have been a part of the Australian scene over the past few months. I will refer specifically to Melbourne. We have had agitation in the streets in Melbourne. We have had people blocking the roadways, denying rights of access to other people, and we have had scuffling and fighting and arrests taking place in the streets. These are not isolated occasions. This appears to be the regular pattern on Friday and Saturday of each week. We have had a bomb thrown into the office of Australian General Electric. We have had a bomb thrown into the office of the Australian Prime Minister. 
If 1 may- now quote my own words, I interjected: 
What has this to do with Dick Gregory? 

 Senator Greenwood replied: 
I am talking about the scene which we have in Australia at the moment. If  Senator Wheeldon  will bear with me for a little longer I will link up what I am now saying with what is the justification for this Government's action. Rather than being interrupted by  Senator Wheeldon  who would seek to prevent me from giving this catalogue of events which have been occurring 1 will proceed to recite some further matters. There was a building in South Melbourne owned by McPherson's Ltd which was substantially burnt to the ground. 

 Senator Kennelly then Interjected: 
How do you connect that up? 
So it goes on. What was  Senator Greenwood  doing on that occasion? He was saying that McPherson's Ltd in South Melbourne was burnt to the ground, that someone threw a bomb here and someone threw a bomb there. What did this establish? This established that there was a terrorist organisation - the Vietnam moratorium movement - which was going to add to its incendiary activities by bringing into this country a black comedian who would have assisted everybody to laugh at the ridiculous government that we had at that time.  Senator Greenwood  on that occasion did not say: 'Well, there have been some bombs thrown but we cannot speculate as to who may have thrown them or what connection they may have with anybody because I do not have enough evidence to prosecute anybody in the Court of Petty Sessions or the Criminal Court'. Oh no, certainly not!  Senator Greenwood  was able to say that the fact that someone had burnt down McPherson's Ltd, whatever that may be, and thrown a bomb at somebody else was evidence that there was a conspiracy involving the Vietnam moratorium movement and, apparently by a process of osmosis,  Mr Dick  Gregory over in Chicago. But  Senator Greenwood  was not content with that because he had many things to say about conspiracies during that period. A little later- 
I was endeavouring to do so. What is  Senator Greenwood  recorded as saying on page 848 of the Senate Hansard for 23rd September 1970? He said: 
Yet it ls this Victorian Moratorium Committee which has received the support of the Australian Labor Party and it is this Victorian Moratorium Committee which was led by  Dr Cairns  and supported by this new publicist, the Federal Secretary of the ALP,  Mr Young.  It shows that what has been happening in Victoria Is but a charade. ... Let it be recognised, let it be identified and let it be consistently known by the people of Australia that that is where the sympathies of the Labor Party lie on this issue. 1 do not want to read the whole speech and weary the Senate, but if anyone disputes what I am saying let him read that speech and he will see that  Senator Greenwood  was doing precisely what he charges that we have been doing. He has been saying that there was a conspiracy, that an organisation is engaged in criminal and quasi-criminal activities associated with certain individuals in the Labor Party and apparently associated with the Labor Party itself - and now he says that we cannot make any statement about Croatian terrorist organisations unless we actually have evidence to bring a prosecution in the courts. As my colleague  Senator James  McClelland pointed out this afternoon,  Senator Greenwood  must have been in a hurry to get that speech written and did not find time to check it: Because there have been prosecutions  -  9 in Sydney, I think - including one individual whom I do not want to prejudice in any way. All we know is that he has been prosecuted. The Opposition has been asking why do not we prosecute someone. I tell Opposition senators that 9 persons are being prosecuted, one of whom figured very prominently in the statement made to the Senate last week by  Senator Murphy. 
I repeat that what the Australian people are interested in are the answers to the specific charges which have been made by  Senator Murphy.  That there is a large number of documents concerning Croatian organisations in Australia is beyond dispute. As  Senator Murphy  has said, to produce them all to the Senate would fill the whole of the Senate chamber. Certainly they include documents which would tend to make people believe that perhaps there is nothing to worry about. 
Yes, there are documents here that say that, certainly. There is a multiplicity of documents here, and since  Senator Webster  says 'Hear, hear!' it would seem that he believes those documents but does not believe the other documents. At the risk of boring the Senate, since these charges have not been answered, I should like to read the contents of some of the documents which  Senator Webster  apparently does not believe. 
Yes, later. A statement was made by  Mr Lynch,  who is now competing with  Mr Anthony  for the  Deputy  Leadership of the loosely amalgamated Opposition. What did  Mr Lynch  say on only 3rd December 1969 when he was Minister for Immigration, Minister in charge of a department which had made other submissions on the existence of other Croatian terrorist organisations? And what did  Mr Lynch  write on 3rd December 1969 to  Mr Hughes,  who was then the Attorney-General?  Mr Lynch  expressed his concern: 
. at the likely serious consequences if Croat nationals in Australia are permitted to continue - 
Not to start but to continue -  their terrorist activities- 
They are not my words but  Mr Lynch's  words. The letter went on:  and outrages against representatives of the Yugoslav Government and authority generally in this country. I have reason to believe that the terrorists are endeavouring to create the impression amongst Yugoslav migrants in Australia that the Croatian extremists have the support of significant sections of Australian society and even the Government 
That was said by  Mr Lynch,  the  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party. The text goes on: 
. I am moreover concerned with the likely effect upon our relations with Yugoslavia, especially in terms of our migration arrangements with that country of continued incidents of this kind and the apparent inability of the law authorities to apprehend offenders. 
This afternoon we heard both  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Wright  claim that the documents tabled by  Senator Murphy  were selective. I suggest that their answers have been selected and I am going to invite somebody from the Opposition side of the Senate to elaborate what  Mr Lynch  said, to answer what  Mr Lynch  said and to comment on what  Mr Lynch  said. Was  Mr Lynch  stupid? Was he ignorant? Was he ill advised - or was he telling the truth? What is the position of members of the Liberal Party? Do they believe  Mr Lynch  or do they not believe him? That is the question which I believe they have to answer instead of talking about who went into ASIO offices without search warrants and how many Commonwealth policemen were present. Next, let us look again at what  Mr McMahon  said in December 1969.  Mr McMahon  stated that: 
The extremists themselves may by now have come to believe that they can act with impunity and that they can therefore, without risk to themselves, step up the level and frequency of violence. 

 Mr McMahon did not say 'commence violence' but 'step up the level and frequency of violence' - that is, by the extremists.  His  letter went on:   . . on the only occasion when an offender (who was arrested at the time of committing the offence in the course of a public demonstration) was brought before a court, he was fined an amount which might have left an impression with the Yugoslav missions here, . . . that the Australian authorities did not take the matter seriously. 

 Mr McMahon was concerned that as a result of certain things that had happened here the Yugoslav authorities might think that the Australian authorities did not take the matter seriously. This was not because the Yugoslav authorities had said to him: 'The Australian Government does not take the matter seriously'. 
You argue that with  Mr McMahon.  It has nothing to do with the matter.  Mr McMahon  has not said that the Yugoslav authorities had made this claim. 
What  Mr McMahon  said was: The situation is such, presumably, that the Yugoslav authorities would be entitled to believe that the Australian Government does not take this matter seriously*. Was  Mr McMahon  being stupid? Was  Mr McMahon  ill advised? Was he ignorant? Was he romanticising - or was he right? Neither  Senator Greenwood  nor  Senator Wright  has tried to answer that question. What does  Senator Greenwood  believe about  Mr McMahon's  statement? He carefully avoided it, as did  Senator Wright,  in their alleged answers to what  Senator Murphy  had said. Apparently not only has  Mr McMahon  been removed from the leadership, he has been removed from consideration. Honourable senators opposite do not even bother to answer a most serious charge, a most serious suggestion, made by their former leader, the former Prime Minister of this country. 
On 18th October 1972 - and this was not so close to the election that the former AttorneyGeneral could not act on it - the Assistant Director of the Special Reports Branch of the Department of Immigration made certain statements. He said: 
I believe the strong doubts which exist about past and future involvement in potentially violent Balkan politics should be exercised in favour of Australia and therefore recommend that - a certain person - be deported. 
Was any action taken? No action was taken. This was one of the persons named - but has anybody on the Opposition side commented on the statement of the Assistant Director of the Special Reports Branch? Again, this was ignored. They had no confidence apparently in a senior public servant who was appointed by the previous Government. In fact, the answers which were given by  Senator Greenwood  in which he said that there was no credible evidence of terrorist organisations in Australia, were made as late as 12th September 1972 when he gave answers in this Senate and denied all knowledge of this matter. He attempted by a rather disreputable legalistic device to say that he was being asked something which he was not being asked. 
Nobody had asked the former AttorneyGeneral,  Senator Greenwood,  whether he had information in his possession which would lead to the prosecution of a particular individual under the Crimes Act or under any part of the law of the Commonwealth. Noone had asked him that. He was asked whether he was aware of the existence of organisations in this country which did have as a goal the use of force in relation to certain matters in which they were interested in Croatia, and his answer was, no, that he did not have sufficient evidence to prosecute any individual.  His  answer was that there was no evidence of the existence of these organisations. This answer came from a Minister in a government which for years had told us about the existence of communist conspiracies, moratorium conspiracies and all sorts of left wing conspiracies without any person ever being prosecuted for anything. Members of that Government were perfectly satisfied that these organisations did not exist. It was said that there was no evidence whatsoever of the existence of these organisations. That is clearly palpable nonsense. For example, if in this country there was a Provisional Sinn Fein organisation in existence, as well there may be- 

 - Senator McManus assures me that there is. 
I know what IRA stands for. I bow to the superior knowledge of  Senator McManus  who says that there is a Provisional Sinn Fein organisation in Australia. In that case, could anyone deny that it was an organisation associated with the use of terror in Northern Ireland? Of course not, because the Provisional Sinn Fein is the political arm of the Provisional Irish Republican Army which is linked with the use of violence and terrorism in Northern Ireland. 
It seems that  Senator McManus  knows very little about contemporary Irish history. He may be much better informed about the time of the famine. 
I do not think so, because if you say it is only the same name, without digressing into modern Irish history, I think you should look at the statements of the Provisional Sinn Fein.  Senator McManus  will find that its members say quite openly that they are the political arm of the Provisional Irish Republican Army. It would be foolish for anybody to deny that there was an organisation in Australia connected with organisations involved in the use of terrorism in Northern Ireland. It is not the same thing as saying that there is some person in Australia who is engaged in terrorism. It is not the same thing as saying that particular acts of terrorism have been committed by any member of the organisation. Clearly, if there is a Provisional IRA or Provisional Sinn Fein in Australia, there is an organisation related to the use of terrorism. That answer would have to be given if the question were asked and not a silly answer about not having enough evidence to prosecute an individual. 
The Government will not be distracted from the preservation of the lives and safety of the Australian people by red herrings and dishonest answers such as those which have been given by honourable senators who are now in Opposition. We know very well that in past years throughout Australia bombs have been exploded; people have been killed and injured; people have been threatened. We intend to stop it, not by breaching civil liberties or by breaking the law but in the spirit of the actions which we have taken this very day in seeing that naturalised Australian citizens shall not be deported under sections 30a and 30c of the Crimes Act. Those provisions shall be removed. 
The Australian people know from 23 years experience how much they can expect in the way of civil liberties and civil rights from the Liberal Party, the Democratic Labor Party and the Country Party. They are learning what they can expect from the Australian Labor Party by the action we have already taken. At the same time, I commend this to the party of law and order: We do not intend to allow this country to be a haven for terrorists, bombers and murderers. 
 I rise because of something which was said by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  when he concluded the debate on the motion to appoint a board of inquiry to deal with certain matters. During the course of his remarks he said that the Opposition had lost heart about this matter. It was a Freudian slip, I think, although I also think it revealed some truth about his own thoughts. 
I do not wish to debate it but the Leader of the Opposition said that the Government - his own words were 'the Opposition' - did not wish to continue this matter and had no further speakers. The honourable senator would have been able to verify this matter if he had checked with the Whips or with you,  Mr President.  He would have known that I was listed to speak next. Also he would have known that Senators Bishop, Cavanagh, Mulvihill, Gietzelt, Brown and O'Byrne also were on the list. We were all prepared to speak on this matter. 
As  Senator Rae  said, it is a good collection. No wonder the gag was moved. The Leader of the Opposition totally misrepresented the position of the Government, which is prepared to carry on this debate for as long as the Opposition wants to carry it on. We had the speakers ready to speak on this matter and we were prepared to speak on it. The action taken by the Leader of the Opposition in closing the debate meant that he was in fact gagging the debate. 
I wish to refute entirely the allegation that Government Senators were not prepared to speak in opposition to the resolution which was moved tonight by the Leader of the Opposition during one of his rare appearances in this chamber. 
I think we have heard a rather tired old effort this .afternoon. Apparently the Opposition wants to re-fight the Vietnam war - an issue which was put to the Australian people at the election which was held last December, which gave the Australian people the opportunity to show that they supported overwhelmingly the. policy of the Australian Labor Party on the Vietnam war, conscription and diplomatic relations with the Government of North Vietnam, and to show, that they repudiated the previous: Government of which  Senator Hannan,  was a supporter. We have not heard anything new today. We have heard some recitations of what appeared in various newspapers which all of us would have been capable of reading had we bothered to take the trouble of doing so. We heard also some excerpts from articles by Dennis Warner. All of us, I think, are familiar with this matter. One might have hoped that had the Opposition wished to raise once again the question of the Vietnam war and our relations with the Government of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam we might have heard something a little' fresher, something a little more original, than  Senator Hannan  has been able to give us this afternoon. 
When one looks at the motion we are debating it appears to be a rather appalling drafting effort. One might have some difficulty in ascertaining precisely what it is about which the Opposition is complaining. The matter of urgency which the Opposition has referred to the Senate is: 
The welcome and support for delegations from North Vietnam and the revolutionary Vietcong given by  Dr Cairns,  Minister for Overseas Trade and Secondary Industry in the Whitlam Government, and the recognition and condonation thereby given by the Whitlam Government to the North Vietnam aggression, and Vietcong terrorism. 
I would like somebody on the Opposition side to explain precisely what the Opposition means when it talks about the recognition given to the North Vietnam aggression and Vietcong terrorism. What precisely is it that the Opposition is saying that this Government has done? Are members of the Opposition saying that we recognised that there had been North Vietnamese aggression and Vietcong terrorism? What is it that they are saying? The motion as it stands at the moment seems to mean precisely nothing. I also would appreciate some analysis by  Senator Hannan  of what exactly is meant by the word 'terrorism'? Terrorism is a word used in a variety of contexts.  1  think that the first time the word terrorist' was used- 
It was used during the American War of Independence, a branch of history which I am sure  Senator Webster  has not taken the trouble to study. It was during the American War of Independence that the word 'terrorism' was used, according to my recollection of my readings, about none other than George Washington and Thomas Jefferson who were accused of inciting terrorism in New York against the supporters of the British Crown. If one talks about terrorism one finds that it has very respectable antecedents in the first  President  of the United States of America.  Senator McManus,  with whom I disagree in most cases except upon matters relating to Ireland, said this afternoon that Michael Collins was a terrorist. I thought that  Senator McManus  said that with some pride. That is not a matter relating to the merits of Michael Collins with which I would want to disagree with  Senator McManus,  but if  Senator McManus  can use the word 'terrorist' with regard to Michael Collins to indicate some praiseworthiness on his part, I would be interested to know what precisely it is that is objected to in the so-called terrorism of the organisations of the Vietnamese people struggling for the independence and unity of their country. They are struggling in precisely the same way as Michael Collins and the Irish revolutionaries have been struggling for the independence and unity of their country for many centuries, and the same way as the people of the United States of America fought for their independence and unity not only at the time of the War of Independence but also at the time of the American Civil War. 
As  Senator Hannan  has raised these matters and has gone back to the history of the war in Vietnam it is necessary to examine something of that history.  Senator Hannan  told us a rather garbled version of it. Before doing so I think I should refer to the precise terms of the motion. Apparently  Senator Hannan  and the other dignitaries who signed this rather poorly written letter, which all of us have received, are of the view that the Government should be subject to some condemnation because it has allowed, at the invitation of a private body, a group of delegates from the Government of the Democratic Republic of North Vietnam and the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam to visit this country. First, let me say that Australia recognises the Government of North Vietnam. We are exchanging diplomatic representatives with that country. It is a country with which we have full diplomatic relations. It would be completely absurd for us to say that people representing that country should not be allowed to come into Australia. It is not as if this Government is doing something eccentric in recognising North Vietnam because that is done by an overwhelming majority of countries. 
I do not know the precise number but it includes most western European countries at present. It includes France, The Netherlands, Belgium, Austria, Denmark, Norway and Sweden, a number of countries which in any context are regarded as democratic. I merely point out that there is nothing extraordinary or unique about the Australian Government's recognition of the Government of North Vietnam. The Australian Government does not recognise the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam. My private opinion is that we should, and as far as I am concerned - I speak personally and on behalf of nobody else - 'the sooner Australia does recognise the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam, the sooner we will be acknowledging the reality as it exists within South Vietnam. 
The Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam was recognised as one of the negotiating parties in the recent Paris peace talks. In fact, if one looks at the accords signed in Paris one finds that there were 4 signatories - the representative of the Government of the United States of America, the representative of the Saigon Government, which is recognised by this Government as it was by the previous Government; the Government of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam in Hanoi and the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam. The Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam is acknowledged by the United States and the other parties to the Paris peace agreement, and the talks which preceded it, as a government existing in its own right, capable of signing the agreement as a government along with the Government of the United States. It already is recognised by 37 countries throughout the world. I know that  Senator Webster  will say that they are all Communist countries but 1 would like to disappoint him by telling him that there are not 37 countries which have Communist governments. There are considerably fewer than that. A great many countries, and a growing number of countries, recognise the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam. 
Australia was involved in the war in Vietnam at the behest of the United States of America. No interests of Australia were served by our participation in that war but some 500 Australian conscripts were killed in that country while that war was being undertaken. If anyone claims that people on the. Government side who were opposed to the war are dishonouring the dead in some way if they support the peaceful resolution of the problems of Vietnam, I think it has to be said that if it had not been for the Opposition, acting against our advice, there would not have been any dead. We were opposed from the start to conscripting those young men and sending them to Vietnam. The blood of those young men does not lie upon the, head of the Australian Labor Party because from the very beginning we said that they should never have been sent to that country. As I believed at the time, and still believe now, it was a shameful thing that there were so many people of military age eligible for service in that war and so enthusiastic about the conflict being undertaken there, who sat in this Parliament and voted continuously to conscript young men to go off and be killed there while they remained in this Parliament and in Australia denouncing as traitors those people who were not prepared to conscript their fellow Australians to go there and be killed. 
This matter should be mentioned again because I think it stands to the everlasting shame of the Opposition parties that they lent themselves to such a shabby manoeuvre which resulted in the deaths of these young Australians and the deaths of countless Vietnamese people. There has been some mention this afternoon of statements made by  President  Nixon and of how he is concerned because of present breaches of the ceasefire by North Vietnam and the Provisional Revolutionary Government. It has been stated that  President  Nixon believes that he might have to engage in some additional bombing because of the disgraceful behaviour of the people in Vietnam. 
I wonder whether the information which  President  Nixon is giving on this matter is just as reliable as the information he has been giving on the tapping of the headquarters of the Democratic Party national committee at the Watergate office in Washington. I wonder whether the advisers that he has had are just as reliable as his former AttorneyGeneral. I wonder whether  Mr Haldeman  and  Mr Ehrlichman  perhaps have been giving some advice about what has been going on in Vietnam. I wonder whether  President  Nixon is just as honest, just as frank, just as straightforward and just as unblemished as he is in all those matters relating to the concealment of criminals on his own staff and evading the course of justice within his own country. 
I should think that anybody would be very reluctant to come into this Senate or anywhere else on this day and say that it must be right because  President  Nixon says so and  President  Nixon, like George Washington, has never told a lie. I would have the greatest reluctance in accepting anything that  President  Nixon or  Mr Haldeman  or  Mr Ehrlichman  or  Mr Kleindienst  or any of the others told me about anything - certainly about the Vietnam war. Why, we have only seen the revelation made a little while ago when  President  Nixon was announcing what great public support he had received for the rnining of Haiphong harbour and the bombing of Hanoi and that this had come from a flood of letters and telegrams into Washington. It now turns out that his own criminal associates were the people who were sending the telegrams and writing the letters, lt was not the American people at all. I would suggest that one should look very cautiously at anything which  President  Nixon or his associates have to tell us about any of these matters. 
I remember a little while ago  Senator Hannan  referred to some bombing and said that this was very mild bombing, that it did not compare with some other things that have happened, that the bombing took place only in order to bring the North Vietnamese to the conference table and that if the bombing had not taken place the peace treaty would never have been signed. I know that one's judgment on these matters probably is of necessity subjective, but I have an advantage over some members of the Senate in that I was in Hanoi very shortly after the bombing took place. I am very proud to have been in Hanoi. 1 am very honoured to have been invited to go to Hanoi. One of the things that I saw there- 
Yes, I was marching down the streets opposing conscription to Vietnam while  Senator Webster  was sitting safely here saying that people who would not go to Vietnam ought to go to gaol. We have seen what  Senator Webster's  contribution was to the Vietnam war. lt was to conscript other people to go and to stay at home himself. That was his great contribution to the Vietnam war. I was in Hanoi shortly after the bombing took place. If I may say so, I find it interesting to note that although  Senator Hannan  was heard in silence, honourable senators opposite certainly want to take every care to see that I do not have an opportunity to speak this afternoon. But I mention that only in passing. They do not bother me, but I think it ought to be recorded that a constant barrage of noise and stupid interjections is coming from them. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order!  Senator Wheeldon  will be heard in silence. 
I was in Hanoi shortly after the bombing took place and- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
 I appreciate the courtesy of the Senate. As I was saying. 1 was in Hanoi shortly after the bombing took place, and the destruction which I saw with my own eyes in Hanoi and Haiphong was not merely incidental bombing. There was systematic carpet bombing of civilian areas in both Hanoi and Haiphong. The evidence was clear before one's eyes that there was massive devastation of areas inhabited by civilians which could come about only as a result of the deliberate action of the United States Air Force in setting out to exterminate a civilian population. This was certainly not only my view; it was the view of those Western observers, diplomats and journalists who had been in Vietnam during the bombing itself. 
The Bach Mai Hospital in Hanoi, which was virtually wiped out, was well known as a hospital. It was the largest hospital in Vietnam. It had been built by the French in 1932. Its location was well known- It was systematically detroyed by deliberate bombing by the United States Air Force. Anti-personnel bombs were used on the people of Haiphong, to the extent that Haiphong now has become a pioneer area in the field of brain surgery because of the fact that small particles are imbedded in the brains of the civilian people of Haiphong who had been subjected not to a military bombardment- 
I know that  Senator Gair  is very concerned about the right to life, but he is not very concerned about the right to life of those people who are already alive and are being murdered.  His  right to life runs as far as the unborn child; it does not go as far as those people who are living. It is very interesting to see that he is quite unconcerned about the civilian population of Vietnam being deliberately murdered. In fact, one of the very distinguished Japanese journalists who was in Hanoi at the same time as I was there described the bombing of Hanoi and Haiphong as a nuclear attack without nuclear weapons because- 
Opposition senators  -  Oh! 
 I know that some of the experts say that this is not so, and that in any case these people were only corns and it did not really matter; that they were unlike foetuses and it did not matter how many of them were killed. There was mass bombardment of these people and deliberate systematic mass murder of a civilian population. This is something which was recognised by every foreign diplomat in Vietnam at that time. There was not one dissenting voice from any Western journalist or diplomat or any neutral diplomat or journalist that what the United States had attempted in North Vietnam during the bombings of last December was the deliberate extermination of the civilian population in Hanoi and Haiphong. Why did the United States do it? The United States did it because it thought that by doing so - and this is what  Senator Hannan,  this other great Christian, thinks - this was the way in which to get people to sign the peace agreement. I was in Hanoi shortly before the Paris peace treaty was signed, and I was assured not only by officials of the North Vietnamese Government but also by diplomatic observers and journalists who were there, that if the bombing had had any effect at all it was almost to remove the possibility of a peace agreement ever being signed because the response of the Vietnamese people was one of complete abhorrence of what the United States of America was doing to them. It increased the dedication and resolve of those people to continue the struggle when they saw what had been done to them by the greatest military power in the world. This did not drive them to the conference table. It almost drove them away from it. They went back to the conference table only after the bombing had ceased. 

 - Senator Greenwood thinks that the bombing was a good thing. It does not worry him that many thousands of people were killed by this bombing. 
As  Senator Gair  asks me, in the first place the aggressor was the United States of America which deliberately breached the Geneva Agreement of  1954  which provided that there should be only a temporary territorial division between North and South Vietnam and that free elections should be held no later than  1956.  It was the United States and its puppet Ngo Dinh Diem whose murder the Americans subsequently engineered who sabotaged- 
Everybody recognises that. If  Senator Little  is not aware of the public knowledge of the role which the United States administration played in the murder of Ngo Dinh Diem then he must be one of the few people in the world who is not aware of it. The United States deliberately destroyed the effectiveness of the  1954  Geneva Agreement and engaged in aggression in support of Ngo Dinh Diem and his regime which it created. There was a great deal of talk about the Vietnamisation of South Vietnam. Did anyone ever hear any talk about the Vietnamisation of North Vietnam? Of course not. The overwhelming mass of tha North Vietnamese people supported their government in the same way as the overwhelming mass of the South Vietnamese people on their side opposed the Saigon government. Can anyone produce any evidence of one foreign soldier serving in Vietnam on the side of the North Vietnamese and the National Liberation Front? Of course they cannot. Yet hundreds of thousands of Americans and their allies fought in Vietnam. One knows now what the ultimate consequence will be. It is that Vietnam is going to be unified. 
For a period Australia, under the previous Government, played a shabby role in that war. It is a role of which most Australians are ashamed. I believe that we will have to do much to restore ourselves in the eyes not only of the Vietnamese people but also of the great mass of Asian people and people throughout the world who were appalled that this country should play the role which it played in Vietnam. One of the great achievements of the Labor Government upon its election was immediately to abolish conscription and withdraw all forces from South Vietnam. If this Government never did another thing, that in itself would be a great achievement for which the people not only of Australia but also of the whole world should bo eternally grateful to Gough Whitlam and the Federal Labor Party. They should be grateful that we ceased to murder, destroy and intervene in Vietnam. At present there are delegates in Australia from the Government of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam and from the Provisional Revolutionary Government of Vietnam. They are not here as guests of the Australian Government but they are here with its permission. They are here with the support of many members and supporters of the Australian Labor Party. I am one of them. They are people with whom I am proud to be associated. 
Yes, I am very proud to be associated with them. I would far rather be associated with them than with the gaol birds who are surrounding Nixon. I am very honoured to be associated with these delegates because they are people who fought for the independence of their country in the most distressing and appalling situation that one can imagine. Vietnam is a small country. After more than 100 years of occupation by the French and 30 years occupation by the Japanese, these people were able to take on the United States virtually single handed. Very little material assistance was given from some other countries, compared with what ought to have been given and with what was given to the Government in Saigon. Yet they were able to defeat the greatest military power that the world has ever seen. Why did they do this? They did this because of the courage and the resolve of their people because of the knowledge of their people that their cause was a just cause and because many hundreds of thousands and millions of people throughout the world supported them in their struggle. I for one am proud that this delegation is now in Australia. I am proud to think that the Vietnamese people want to come to Australia after the way in which the previous Government behaved in relation to Vietnam. I am personally very honoured to be associated with them. I believe that the Senate should reject this ridiculous, moth-eaten, Red baiting, tired resolution which was moved this afternoon by  Senator Hannan. 
 I do not believe that a debate on a motion for the adjournment of a matter so important as this should be allowed to conclude with only  ons or 2  Government speakers taking part in it. I believe that some important principles are involved in the matter of adjourning the debate. I think perhaps that  Senator Drake-Brockman  was more revealing than he intended to be because in his last remarks he said that the Australian Country Party in fact is opposed to the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill, in the form in which it is now before the Senate. I think that that can be reasonably interpreted as a total opposition by the Country Party to the Bill. From his point of view, the moving of an amendment proposing that deliberation on the Bill be deferred for some 3 months can be looked upon as perhaps a legitimate parliamentary exercise in preventing the passage of the Bill. But, from the Government's point of view, the Australian Labor Party believes that it is essential that this matter be dealt with in the order of business as it has been set down before the Parliament. 
The Labor Party was elected on 2 December last with a mandate to introduce the legislation that is contained in the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill which is now before the Senate. We clearly have a mandate for this Bill. This, in itself, I believe is a singularly important factor.  I  do not believe that any opposition can move responsibly to defer legislation of this nature for which an elected government clearly has a mandate. 
The honourable senator knows that we were elected and given that mandate on 2 December last year. We were elected on the undertaking that we were going to introduce a Bill such as the Bill which is now before the Senate. To engage in a manoeuvre whereby consideration of this Bill is to be deferred for 3 months is a deliberate effort by the Opposition to set aside the will of the Australian people as it was most clearly expressed on 2 December last. 
The subject matter of this legislation unfortunately is one of those subjects on which divisions appear to intrude within political parties. A similar problem occurred in the United States of America with regard to the legislation over the tide lands oil, where there was division within the Democratic Party and the Republican Party as to whether the national legislature should have control of these matters or whether they should remain in the hands of the States. There are divisions - certainly there is no point in denying them - both within the Australian Labor Party and within the Liberal Party on this matter. A previous Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  has made his position perfectly clear on this question, as has one of his former Ministers,  Mr Killen.  As I understand it, one of the more interesting features of last night's meeting of the parliamentary Liberal Party, when the resolution was carried to rescind its previous decision to support the Bill and a decision was taken to seek to defer it, was the absence of  Mr Gorton  and  Mr Killen  from the meeting. 1 may be wrong in making that statement, but that is the information that I have. If 1 am wrong and if they both were present- 
They were both present? If  Mr Gorton  and  Mr Killen  were at that meeting, I accept the assurance of the- 
 I thought I was being assured that they were both there. One of them was present. So, either  Mr Gorton  or  Mr Killen  was absent when this matter was being discussed. The absence of either of them I would describe as being of some significance. 
The amendment calls for consultation with the States. This is a matter which has been canvassed, virtually in its present form, since 1970. The States have had ample opportunity for at least 3 years to say whatever they wanted to say on the Commonwealth's desire to legislate on matters relating to the continental shelf. There is nothing further that can be said on this matter by the States. I certainly would agree completely with what the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said at his Press conference today. Referring to the off-shore resources legislation,  Mr Whitlam  said: 
Any such talks would have been futile.  Mr Gorton  found that. We decided to go ahead. The States are completely intransigent on this subject, and in my policy speech . . . The Labor Party declared its attitude towards this legislation- 
I think that this is most significant because some State Labor governments are involved in this matter. 
. at its last Federal Conference at Launceston in June 1971. 
At the Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party in Launceston in June 1971, the proposition was submitted to the Conference in this form: 
The Commonwealth to legislate for regulation and exploitation of the continental shelf and off-shore resources. 
That is a very clear proposition which I think anybody could understand.  Mr Dunstan,  the Labor Premier of South Australia, was a delegate to that Conference. I am not revealing anything that happened in confidence; all these matters are on the public record.  Mr Dunstan  move an amendment to add the words 'and the States' after the word 'Commonwealth' so that in its proposed amended form the motion would read: 
The Commonwealth and the States to legislate for regulation and exploitation of the continental shelf and off-shore resources. 
The amendment moved by  Mr Dunstan  was rejected by the Australian Labor Party's Federal Conference. It was rejected in the presence not only of  Mr Dunstan  but also of  Mr Tonkin,  the Labor Premier of Western Australia and if not in the presence of  Mr Reece  certainly in the presence of Ministers of the Tasmanian State Labor Government. They know as well as I know what is the platform of the Australian Labor Party on this subject. They had the opportunity to say what they wanted to say about the Federal Labor Party's policy at the Launceston Conference in 1971. One of them - the Labor Premier of South Australia - moved that amendment and it was rejected. 
This policy was adopted by the Australian Labor Party as part of the Federal platform of the Australian Labor Party. In accordance with that platform, the Federal Leader of the Party,  Mr Whitlam,  put this policy forward quite clearly and explicitly at the campaign for the House of Representatives election which took place on 2 December last. In doing so, although it now appears that he was differing from some State leaders of the Australian Labor Party, as it happens he was agreeing with some important members of the Liberal Party including a former Liberal Party Leader who was a former Prime Minister and is now a member of the front bench of the Liberal Party in another place. 
I know that it is impossible for me on this motion to debate the merits of the Bill the adjournment of which is sought. But I felt that it was incumbent on someone to point to the fact that the policy which is contained in this Bill is policy which has been well known now for some years. The matters were debated when  Mr Gorton  was Prime Minister and when he and certain members of his Government were endeavouring to take action along the same lines as the action proposed by this Bill, lt has been well known to members of the Australian Labor Party and to anybody who is or ought to be as conversant with Labor Party policy as a member of a State Labor government is or ought to be. The States have shown that they will be quite intransigent on this matter. Whatever the merits may be of the argument and whether the nation as a whole should legislate on the matter of the continental shelf or whether the States should retain that control, if in fact they do have that control at the present time, the fact is that this is not a matter which cun be the subject of further negotiation. 
Everybody knows exactly where everybody else stands on this issue. There is nothing further that can be said. The adjournment amendment moved by  Senator Withers,  the Leader of the Opposition, is tantamount to a rejection of the Bill. Nothing can be done within the coming 3 months, or whatever the delay period may be. It may be longer, as I think  Senator Cant  correctly pointed out, when one remembers that in the next sessional period the Budget will be considered. It may well be 6 months or more before this Bill can be debated properly in the Senate. Nothing can be accomplished, however long the delay, which has not already been accomplished. Everybody knows the position. To carry the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition is equivalent to a rejection of the Bill. The background of the Bill is perfectly well known. The principal points of the Bill were clearly incorporated in the policy of the Federal Labor Party as long ago as the middle of 1971 and were part of the policy presented to the electors of Australia last year when the Australian Labor Party was returned to office in this Parliament. 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Media in his capacity as the Minister responsible for Government printing and publications. It arises from a question which was asked yesterday by  an  Opposition senator who suggested that there was something sinister in the fact that  Hansard  records of the committee inquiring into Croatian matters had not been available as quickly as one might have expected. Can the Minister explain what has caused the recent delays in providing printed daily Hansard reports of the proceedings of parliamentary committees? Is the Government doing anything to see whether these Hansard reports can be made available more quickly? If so, what is it doing? 
 After listening to  Senator Webster  I must say that for once I feel some sympathy with the State Executive of the Liberal Party in Victoria in its desire to see that  Senator Webster  gains no higher position than No. 3 on its joint Senate ticket. The matter before the Senate is a motion moved by  Senator Rae  in which he condemns the actions of the Federal Government and, in particular, the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley).  I suppose the essential part of this rather long motion moved by  Senator Rae  is contained in paragraph 1 which refers to the denial by the Government of the right of every Australian child to receive economic support from government funds for his educational needs. If one says nothing else, 1 think one must say that one has to admire the audacity of a defunct, defeated Liberal Party which, on seeing the first Labor Budget for 23 years which gives unprecedented assistance to the education of Australian children, with an increase- 

 - Senator Jessop says that it is inflationary. I think that is rather interesting because it shows the sheer confusion in the minds of members of the Liberal Party and its appendages on the Opposition benches. On the one hand they are saying that not enough money is being given to education, but when I point to the fact that the amount which is being given is unprecedently high,  Senator Jessop  says that that is inflationary. So presumably whatever we do is wrong. If we do not give money to education we are depriving the children of their education, and if we do give money that is inflationary. I think the public can see through the nonsensical reasoning which leads to these 2 mutually contradictory conclusions. 1 do not propose to waste my time dealing with the matters which  Senator Jessop  has raised. It is apparently a sign of a split between him .and  Senator Rae  - a new split which hitherto I did not know existed. 
Let us have a look at the funds which are being made available to education in Australia. I should like to refer in particular to the words which were included in the Budget speech delivered last night in the other place by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and in this place by  Senator Willesee.  What does the Labor Government say about education? We say: 
For this Government, education is a top priority - it constitutes the fastest growing component of the Budget. 
If I may interpolate, this was said on the very day before the Opposition in this place has moved a motion which condemns the Government for not spending enough on education. The Budget speech continued: 
We will provide S843m for education in 1973-74, an increase of S404m or 92 per cent on last year. There will be a further substantial rise in 1974-75  as  the programs commencing in 1974 come fully into effect. 
So we have provided for a 92 per cent increase in the budgetary expenditure on education in this country and the Opposition has the audacity to say that this Government is denying every Australian child the right to receive economic support for his educational needs from Government funds. We have increased by 92 per cent the money available for the education of young Australian children, and one can only admire the Goebbels technique of this motion. At a time when such a tremendous increase in expenditure on education is proposed by the Federal Labor Government the Liberal Party can only say that we are denying the rights of Australian children to an education. If we are denying the rights of Australian children to an education, what was the previous defeated Government doing? It offered only 8 per cent of the expenditure which we are offering to government schools in Australia. 
What has been the history of the assistance provided to education in Australia? In a shameful effort to gain votes the previous 
Government holusbolus gave per capita grants to schools, taking no account whatsoever of the financial resources of the parents whose children were receiving that assistance and taking no account whatsoever to the financial resources of the schools receiving that assistance. We believe that this was totally wrong. If I may be forgiven for injecting a note of class warfare into the proceedings of the Senate I, along, I believe, with the overwhelming majority of Australian people, believe that it is totally improper, totally unjust, something to be condemned and something to be deplored that when a wealthy Melbourne stockbroker wants to send his son to Geelong Grammar School he should receive precisely the same assistance as a widow at Paynes Find, Western Australia, who wants to send her child to a state high school. 
The Australian Labor Party does not adopt that policy in relation to the education of Australian children. We believe that there ought to be equality of education but we have not removed grants to the non-government schools. We have far from removed grants to non-government schools. We are acting on the recommendations of a committee set up under the chairmanship of Professor Karmel. What was the principle under which Professor Karmels Committee worked? It believed that the general level of education in Australia was altogether too low, that if one looked at the basic resources of the government schools in Australia and took an average one could give to this average an index figure of 100. The modest but reasonable goal of our education program - it is not an inflationary goal - is to raise over the course of the next 6 years that basic level of 100 to a level of 140. In other words, we are seeking to improve by 40 per cent the facilities now available to the school children of Australia. We wish to do this for the government schools and for the non-government schools. 

 Senator Rae has said that there is some mystery about the index. The index was made public when the report of Professor Karmel's committee was tabled in this Parliament some months ago. 
What is revealed when one looks at the index and looks at the position of non-government schools in Australia? One finds that the rate which applies in the various nongovernment schools varies from a minimum of 40 - that is to say, 40 per cent of the average in the State schools - to 270 - that is, 1 70 per cent greater than the average level of facilities available in State schools. So the range extends from 40 to 270, which is a colossal range. We have said that as we desire to fix the level at a minimum of 140 we shall eliminate aid to those schools which operate at present on an index of more than 140 - that is, those schools which are classified A according to the index. There are about 140 schools which fall into that category. The Opposition apparently has seized upon this figure insofar as it has understood the index. I do not think  Senator Webster  understands it. I think  Senator Rae  understood it but set out deliberately to sow seeds of confusion. 
There are 140 schools which fall into category A. Does that mean that we are reducing aid to schools in general or to nongovernment schools in particular? It does not. If one takes the government schools, for example - and this is the basis of Australian education, and I am not ashamed to say that the basic educational factor in Australia is the Government education system - one sees that for 1971-72 Commonwealth aid to government schools amounted to $40.5m which will be increased to $495m for the financial year 1974-75. Yet this is a government which is accused of not looking after the educational needs of Australia. There has been an increase in the annual grant to government schools by the Federal Government from $40.5m to $495m. That is more than a 12- fold increase compared to what was given by the last lapsed, defeated, defunct and deflated Government. 
Let us look at the non-government schools. Are we reducing assistance to nongovernment schools? What was the aid given in 1971-72 by the previous, defeated Liberal Government? It was $7 1.5m. What is the aid proposed by the Labor Government for 1974- 75? It is $195m. Is this Opposition going to go to the people who conduct the private schools in Australia and say to them: 'You will be better off with us than you are under the Labor Party. The Labor Party is so miserable that it gives you only $195m. We are so generous and so concerned that we will give you one-third of that amount. We will give you $7 1.5m.' Is that the argument of honourable senators opposite? Is that what they are saying? Are they saying that we are undermining the non-government schools because we are giving almost 3 times as much to them? 
The figures, which have been made completely clear in the Karmel report, show precisely what we are doing. We are endeavouring to raise the level of all children who are receiving education in Australia. Our education program is not a social services program. If some people think that the education which is provided by government schools or by Catholic schools is so inadequate that they want to send their children to Melbourne Grammer School or to Guildford Grammar School. That is entirely up to them. But if they send them to schools which stand at an index of 270 when compared with a base index of 140 they cannot expect to be paid for doing so. If they want to make a sacrifice then let it be a sacrifice. Let them say: 'We want to make a sacrifice but we would like you to pay for the making of the sacrifice.' This is the most extraordinary concept of sacrifice that I have ever heard. They say: 'I will make the sacrifice as long as you pay for doing it.' That is what we are being asked to do. 
We are not trying to close down nongovernment schools; we have increased 3-fold the aid which is being given to them. But we are saying that those schools which at the present time have facilities in excess of those which we have fixed as a goal for all the other schools in Australia for a time 6 years from now will not continue to receive assistance until such time as the level has been raised. Then the whole matter will be reconsidered. No school is being permanently crossed off. There is to be an annual assessment of the relationship between schools and the index. Any schools which fall below the desirable index will, in turn, receive that aid. 
This Government is concerned about education. That is one of the reasons why it was elected. The people of Australia repudiated the previous Government and the way in which it treated education. Education has been made the first priority of this Government. We have increased the aid to government schools 12-fold. We have increased 3- fold the aid to non-government schools. The Australian Labor Party is prepared to stand on its record. We are proud of our policy. We are proud of the way in which it has been implemented. 
 I concur with what  Senator Byrne  has just said for I believe that if we are to accept the principle that the State should not judicially take the life of any person then this must apply no matter how horrible the offence may be. I do not believe that we can say, as apparently the mover of the amendment wishes us to do, that we can develop this hierarchy of heinous offences when we have conceded that no matter how heinous are certain offences, we will not impose the death penalty. For example, I cannot imagine more heinous offences than those allegedly committed recently in Texas - the mass murders, the horrifying reports of which we have recently heard. I do not believe that it would be possible to work out a hierarchy of magnitude of these crimes whether committed for financial aim or anything else. For somebody to say: 'This person is not as bad as someone who has committed treason' or 'someone who has poisoned another is worse than one who blew up an aircraft full of people in order to collect insurance payments. What we are saying is the State should not deprive people of their lives by a judicial act. We believe that in saying this we are, in fact, by example setting certain standards by the conduct of the State itself which we hope will permeate throughout society.  Senator Young  has raised the question of deterrents in the case of treason. My own feeling would be that if any offence where the death penalty is unlikely to bc a deterrent it would be precisely treason. One can well imagine that in the case of a person who commits murder in order to get financial gain that there would bc perhaps some balancing of the possible gain and the possible penalty. 
If I could just finish my point, I say I could well imagine that in the case of murder for financial profit the perpetrator of the crime may well enter into some calculation of the possible risks compared with the possible gain: Although I would reject the argument, I can understand the argument that there may be some deterrent involved in such cases. But it seems to me to be highly unlikely that this would apply in the case of treason unless one includes those people who are not committing treason for any political or moral purpose but for financial gain - because they have been bribed. 
Certainly there are some cases but probably in the case of treason these examples are rather fewer than those of people who are committing treason because of ideological, political or moral motivation, however misguided. I would assume that in the case of a person committing treason for financial or material reward the deterrents provided by capital punishment would have no greater deterrent effect than would be the case in the commission of any other crime. 
That is so, if you were to acknowledge that point of view. In generally discussing the commission of crimes we do not find a correlation between the frequency of the imposition of capital punishment and the rarity of otherwise of a certain crime. We all know, for example, without rehashing these matters, that in the Netherlands, which was the earliest country to abolish capital punishment, there is the lowest rate of 'unlawful homicide. Certain other countries which have quite frequent executions simultaneously have a high rate of unlawful homicide. Coming to the case of treason, at one extreme is William Joyce and at the other extreme is  Sir Roger  Casement. Clearly the possibility of capital punishment is not a deterrent in such cases. Obviously it was not a deterrent in those 2 cases because the death penalty was applied in their lifetimes and, in fact, they both suffered the imposition of the death penalty for their acts. 
People engaging in treason for ideological reasons - Thomas Jefferson, Washington, Roger Casement, or for that matter, William Joyce - are doing it for reasons which in their minds have caused them to take supreme risks, however desirable or evil we may think their causes to be. They have reached the ultimate stage in their dedication to their causes. I do not believe that the retention of the death penalty will in any way deter such people. The only thing that the retention of the death penalty in the laws of the country does is to show once again that, even if only in limited cases, we as legislators are holding that the state ought to retain the right judicially to deprive people of their lives. 
Not only were they guilty of treason; they were guilty of treason at a time when the death penalty was provided for as a recompense for treason. It acted as no deterrent whatever. The reason that there have not been similar cases to Eureka Stockade in Australia is not the existence of the death penalty but social changes within society. I do not believe that we for any reason should say that the state is going to deprive people of their lives by judicial process because it sets a pattern for the whole of human conduct. In the barbaric world in which we live it is my opinion that an example should be set by this Parliament, by saying that whatever anybody else may be doing at least through our courts and our law we are not going to deprive individuals of their lives in this way. 
-Has the Special Minister of State seen reports that the military junta in Chile has said that the poet Pablo Neruda died of natural causes several days ago? As  Mr Neruda  was not only one of the greatest poets of the century and the holder of the Nobel Prize for literature but also a diplomat in the service of the Chilean Government and a supporter of the previous democratically elected Government of that country, will the Minister ask the Department of Foreign Affairs to make inquiries as to whether the allegation by the Chilean junta that he died of natural causes is in fact correct? 
The wording of the matter of urgency before the Senate seeks to condemn the Federal Labor Government for behaviour which, to use the words of  Senator McManus,  'has reduced Australia's defences to a degree which destroys the morale of our armed forces, leaves Australia without credibility as an ally and gravely endangers our security'. This motion is one of a series which comes from the Opposition Parties on Wednesdays when the Senate proceedings are being broadcast. It revives the old arguments which the Opposition Parties feel served them so well during the 1 950s. I remember my own local member in the House of Representatives at that time, who now holds a high office to which I cannot refer. He used to flood the electorate with maps of Australia showing red arrows descending from China by rather circuitous routes, some going through Malaya, some going through Honolulu, some going up and some coming down, but all of thiem ultimately finishing up at the Royal Perth Golf Club. 
We have heard about this subject for a long time and a large number of people in Australiaone American writer described them as little old ladies in white tennis shoes- were terrified of the hordes of reds and yellows descending on this country by unspecified means, mainly by sampans, as  Senator Gietzelt  suggests, while others swam and others came by some mystic power known only to orientals. They were going to seize control of this country. Indeed, the previous Government used these arguments so consistently, and with such support from the Press and other similar ill-informed circles in the Australian community, that they were able to hang on to office for a very long time. 
But one of the changes which has taken place in Australia over the past few years has been a maturing of the Australian electorate. The Democratic Labor Party the Liberal Party and the Country Party have not yet caught up with that change- and they are incapable of catching up with it. The people of Australia no longer believe in Chinese witches on red broomsticks flying down to Australia. They believe that the world is a much more complex place than was shown in the pamphlets which used to be given out by a number of now defunct Liberal politicians in the 1950s. However, as the question of defence has been raised I suppose one has to take some trouble to answer the arguments, if they can be described as such, which have been presented tonight. 
It is interesting to look at the figures of Government expenditure on defence. They have been quoted already. I would have thought that if the Senate were to conduct itself in any logical way the arguments produced already this evening by my predecessors on the Government side would have been regarded as so irrefutable that we would not have had to listen to  Senator Bonner, Senator Maunsell  and others who have spoken tonight. When talking in terms of money we must remember that after 23 years of a government which had promised to put value back into the pound, money had become so devalued that to talk in monetary terms was to be almost meaningless. However, let us look for example at the expenditure by the national government of Australia on defence in the year 1959-60- a period at the height of the cold war. I refer not only to the cold war between the United States, its allies and appendages, and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics but to a time when the divisions between the USSR and the People's Republic of China had not become as apparent as they are now. Those divisions were not only not as apparent, they were not as great as they are now. On top of that there was the Indonesian confrontation with Malaysia which we were told was a tremendous threat to this country. 
In the financial year 1959-60 the Commonwealth of Australia spent 2.8 per cent of its gross national product on defence. In 1960-61 the figure decreased to 2.7 per cent and it was the same the following year. In 1962-63, again a time which we were told was fraught with dangerthe reds were coming, the yellows were coming and the blacks were coming- it fell to 2.6 per cent of the gross national product. This Government's estimated budgetary expenditure on defence for the 1973-74 financial year is 2.9 per cent of the gross national product. Expenditure this year will be higher than it was in the years from 1959 to 1963 at the height of the cold war and at the height of the confrontation with Indonesia. 
I am not going to set myself up as any sort of militarist. In fact I know as little about the Army as  Senator Bonner  does. My Army experience was confined to serving as a private in Perth Modern School Senior Cadet Detachment for 3 years when  Mr Hawke, President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, was a fellow private. In fact we considered ourselves lucky not to be demoted from the rank that we held. Therefore I do not set myself up as an expert or as one who claims that the solution to our problems is a military solution. However, as this matter has been raised by the Opposition I think it is worth while taking a little time to tell the Australian people and the Opposition that in fact the percentage of the Australian gross national product now being spent by this Government on defence is greater than the percentage of the gross national product spent by the previous Government in any financial year between 1959 and 1963- and it was very little higher than the present figure at any stage during the life of the previous Government. 
I want to reiterate what the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  has said already. If it is alleged that the morale of the Australian armed forces is being destroyed by this Government- that is the preposterous allegation which has been made- is it not worth while reminding the Senate of what this Government has done as far as the conditions of service of members of the Australian Army, Navy and Air Force are concerned? This Government has carried out the recommendations of the Committee which inquired into the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund- a committee chaired by  Mr Jess,  a former Liberal member of the House of Representatives. If I may say so with no disrespect to him, a very paramilitary member he was indeed. The recommendations of his Committee were rejected by the previous Government but were accepted by our Government and in fact enlarged upon. Our Government has raised the salaries of members of the armed forces. It has improved their living conditions and their working conditions. It has offered a grant of $1,000 to any member of the armed forces who, upon completing his service, desires to re-enlist. That grant has been described by some honourable senators on the other side as a bribe. The Opposition is saying that by providing this valuable inducement to professional soldiers not to throw away their profession but to remain in our armed forces we are bribing them. What a contemptuous attitude to adopt towards the members of the armed forces which members of the Opposition claim to be representing this evening. 
This Government has increased the defence service homes loan and the amounts available for homes for servicemen. It also has increased repatriation benefits. There have been no complaints from the Returned Services League. I have to confess that if there were any complaints it would not worry me very much. In fact the League has congratulated the Government on the steps taken since it gained office. Any changes cause some difficulties and I dare say there are some difficulties in the armed services in implementing the changes. But all the changes introduced by this Government are changes which improve the wages, the conditions, the possibilities and the professional careers of members of our armed forces. 
The next point I wish to make does not delight me particularly but I might as well raise it since we are talking about defence and it has been drawn to my attention. It should interest members of the Liberal Party, the Country Party and the Democratic Labor Party who are so enthusiastic about the American alliance. For the first time there have been Navy to Navy talks between the United States and the Royal Australian Navy- something which never took place during 23 years of conservative government. There are people who feel, as I think members of the Opposition feel, that it is important that there by trust between the United States and Australia. Members of the Opposition have said that they are the only people who could be servile enough to inspire that trust. The fact is that under this Government Navy to Navy talks have taken place and that never happened under the previous Government. 
I mean no disrespect to members of the armed forces or those concerned about defence matters but I believe that there are much more important matters for Australia's security than the percentage of the gross national product spent on the Army, the Navy or the Air Force, or what we are doing in those fields or what we are doing in talking about the Navy. I believe that the greatest contribution we can make to the security of this country is to take steps which will lead to the elimination of war. We have taken those steps. We have taken Australian troops out of the dirty war in Vietnam. We have recognised the Government of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam. We have recognised the Government of the People's Republic of China. We have recognised the Government of the German Democratic Republic. All of these are forward steps, progressive steps, which lead to a situation in which the people of the world are able to talk and in which a country does not carry out its dialogue by way of abuse and by saying how great its arms are and printing ridiculous pamphlets with red arrows coming down from Peking and pointing to the Nedlands Golf Club. 
We have made a contribution by taking part in ending the war in Vietnam. I do not believe there can be any doubt that, just as our participation in that war was used by aggressive elements in the United States to justify their position, so our withdrawal from that war had an influence on the United States Government in ending its participation in the war in Indo-China. These are positive contributions which we have made. We are in a position where we can talk to the people in China. We have recognised the Government of East Germany- the German Democratic Rebublic. That is a step which the previous Government would never have taken. Are we out of step with world thinking? We are not out of step with world thinking because both East Germany and West Germany are now being admitted to the United Nations and more than 100 countries now recognise the Government in Berlin- the Government of the German Democratic Republic. All of these are forward steps which have been taken by the Australian Labor Party. They are steps which lead to world peace. 
The peoples of the world are afraid of the possibility of a third world war. That is why the strategic arms limitation talks are taking place in Helsinki. That is why  President  Nixon has travelled to Peking. That is why there have been negotiations between the Administration of the United States and the Government of the Soviet Union. There are black features in the world situation. The dispute between the Soviet Union and China is a black feature at the present time. I think every sensible person would agree that it is necessary for world peace and human progress that the differences between those two great countries be resolved. But is it suggested that, while every major power throughout the world is trying to lessen the tensions of the cold war, we in Australia should reject those moves, that we should stand against the Helsinki talks and that we should stand against  President  Nixon's visit to Peking? Certainly the Australian Labor Party rejects that proposition. 
We know that it is a dangerous world in which to live. Recently we have seen a democratically elected government in Chile destroyed. It was not destroyed by any body which we have been told in the past was likely to invade Australia. It was a body quite different which destroyed the democratically elected government in Chile. It was a body whose influence is one of which I have always been most suspicious. I believe that those responsible have shown their hands very clearly over recent days in Chile. There are tremendous problems in Asia, Africa and Latin America, involving people who have been living in deprivation for many years and who are trying to improve their conditions. On many occasions violence breaks out; but on more occasions than otherwise the violence comes not from the people who are trying to improve their conditions but from those people who are trying to stop them from improving their conditions so that they can retain their privileges and vested interests. 
Having said all that, the fact is that the major powers or the great powers of the world are trying to bring about a situation whereby, owing to some accident or some flare-up, the world will not be destroyed by a nuclear holocaust. We are playing our role in bringing about this situation. We are playing our role by recognising the effective governments of those countries which are our neighbours and by lessening the tensions of Europe by seeing that both of the Germanys are represented in the United Nations. This is the great contribution which the Australian Labor Party has made. If it did nothing else, the role that it played in ending the Vietnam war and the role that it played in seeing that sensible relations exist between this country and China, Vietnam and East Germany would be abiding memorials to this Government and of permanent benefit to the peace of the world and the security of the Australian people. 
I rise briefly to pay a few words of tribute to members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. I think they deserve some tribute. I was prompted to rise because we have heard a considerable amount of agitated discussion about the application of the gag in this chamber. I can well imagine that had I been a member of the Opposition today and had found that my old friends in the DLP had crossed the floor and voted with the Government while I was not able to speak on a matter - 
-No. I am speaking hypothetically. Were such a situation to arise I would feel extremely irritated. There were occasions in the past when I felt very irritated. I well remember, for example, when the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill was before the Senate. At that time  Senator Wright,  who was very indignant today, was just as enthusiastic in moving the gag so that we were unable to discuss that Bill.  Senator Wright  says that the situation was different because he was then a Minister while now he is a member of the Opposition. The important point is that, no matter which Party is in government, from time to time it wishes to apply the gag. Let us be realistic about this matter. If we get out the Hansards and the record of proceedings in the Senate, we will find that the last Government regularly applied the gag in debates in this chamber. 
I will come to that point. The last Government regularly attempted to apply the gag and frequently did apply it. I am congratulating the DLP, so  Senator Little  should not get upset. I offer it congratulations rarely enough, so he should appreciate my doing so. I think that  Senator Durack  misunderstood the history of this chamber when he complained tonight about the state of the Standing Orders. The Australian Labor Party has not had a majority in the Senate since 1950. If any desire had been evidenced by members of the conservative parties to change the Standing Orders, they had 23 years in which to do so. But  Senator Durack,  peeved tonight at being defeated when he thought that he would be able to frustrate the Government's program, said: 'Oh, isn't it shocking; the Standing Orders are crook'.  His  Party hardly functioned from 1950 to 1972. It seems to me to be a little late now. 
As I said, I did not wish to bring a discordant note into these proceedings but rather to pour some oil on troubled waters by offering a few words of congratulations to the Democratic Labor Party. For well over a decade neither the Liberal Party and Country Party in combination nor the Australian Labor Party has had a majority in the Senate. In fact, to put not too fine a point on it, the Democratic Labor Party has held the balance of power. So on any occasion when the gag was applied it was applied because the DLP wanted it to be applied.  Senator Wright  often wanted to apply the gag. If the DLP agreed with him the gag was applied.  Senator Murphy  may have wished on some occasion to apply the gag and, if the DLP agreed with him, he was able to apply the gag. The DLP has not supported the application of the gag in all this time. I would like to commend its members for having regarded this entire discussion as nonsense and having maintained silence throughout the whole proceeding. 
I find it rather curious that  Senator Webster  this evening should be arguing for an adjournment until next February of discussion on this Trade Practices Bill. I gathered from what he just said that he had already made such an exhaustive study of the Bill that he was prepared to debate the subject matter tonight without any adjournment whatever. However, it was not the latter part of his speech which I found most interesting. In fact, I did not find a great deal of it terribly interesting at all apart from 2 passages at the beginning which were extraordinarily interesting. One of them was the revelation which  Senator Webster  made that he was particularly qualified- in fact especially qualifiedto speak on this Bill because apparently before coming to this chamber he was a captain of industry and a prince of finance in Victoria. Unbeknown to all of us he was a sort of Andrew Carnegie of East Gippsland before entering the Senate. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  Order! I  ask the honourable senator to try to concentrate on the motion. 
-Thank you. The other thing which rather bewildered me was the claim which he made this evening that 3 disqualifications for speaking about restrictive trade practices were attendance at a university, being- to use the rather quaint turn of phrase to which he appears to be addicted- a legal individual, and having been a former member of the Young Liberals.  I  am surprised that he has such a low opinion of  Senator Withers, Senator Greenwood, Senator Durack, Mr Snedden  and  Mr Peacock,  all of whom have those qualifications. And  Senator Wright. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  Order! I  do not think that has any relevance to the motion before the chamber. 
I  think it has some,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  if I  may say so with due respect. It does refer to matters which were dwelt on at some length by the previous speaker. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I  have just come into the chair. 
1 hope that  Senator Wright  is not equally disqualified from debating the matter because although I  do not think he was ever a Young Liberal- that was rather after his time- he is both a legal individual, as  Senator Webster  would describe him, and I  think he attended a university, albeit the University of Tasmania. The Bill which is before the Senate this evening is being subjected to delaying tactics by the Opposition. Rather than defeat the Bill which they could well do because they have the numbers in this chamber to do so, apparently they have decided to adjourn discussion of the Bill until February of next year. One may speculate as to why they do not want to knock the Bill over tonight but would rather let it hang until February of next year.  I  think that to look for the explanation of this rather strange device one has to seek some motives.  I  suggest that one motive would be the present disarray in which the Opposition parties find themselves. After over a week of suspense the much heralded censure motion was debated in the House of Representatives yesterday. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  Order! I  do not think that the censure motion in another place has anything to do with the motion in this place. 
-Mr Acting  Deputy President,  would you prefer me not to continue at all? I  think that there has been a fairly wide ranging debate. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT -Order! 
I  have finished, thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I  will not continue. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  Order!  Senator O'Byrne,  I  would like you to know that  I  do know what the motion is. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Order!  Senator O'Byrne  it is not your place to be asking me that sort of question. I  say to  Senator McAuliffe  that his point of order is not upheld. What I  am trying to do-  I  try to do this without any partiality so far as anybody is concerned- is to relate the debate to the motion before the Senate.  Senator Mulvihill  is next on the list. 
May I speak on this point of order?  I  have been subjected to constant interruptions from you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  since you have been in the chair. A wide ranging debate has proceeded and I  do not intend to continue trying to speak in these circumstances. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  Order! The next  speaker  on the list is  Senator Mulvihill. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  Order!  Senator McAuliffe  has just said that I  have received instructions from the other side to put the motion.  I  want him to understand that no instructions have been received by me. For the almost 24 years that  I  have been in this Parliament  I  have never taken instructions from anyone.  Senator McAuliffe,  I want you to understand that I will not have you make statements of that sort to me. 
The  DEPUTY ACTING PRESIDENT  (Senator Wood)-  Thank you,  Senator McAuliffe,  for the explanation. I acknowledge it and I apologise if I have made a mistake and misinterpreted you. 
The situation prevailing in the Middle East at the present time is a tragic situation. It is a tragic situation for the people of Israel who find themselves in a small country of only some two million people, many of whom still bear the scars of the holocaust under the Nazi regime from 1933 to 1945, and many others of whom bear the scars of memory through knowing what has happened to their families as a result of racist, antisemitic persecution in many other parts of the world, fearful of their continued existence because they believe that they are surrounded by many millions of hostile neighbours who do not acknowledge the existence of their state. The situation is likewise a tragic situation for the Arabs who find that many hundreds of thousands of their people are refugees from the country of their birth, and that many hundreds of thousands of their people are now living in the most appalling conditions in refugee camps away from the homes in which they were born and away from the cities, towns and villages in which they grew up. They are people who have suffered humiliations and bombardments, not only by the Israelis but also by the British and the French in 1956. At the present time they have large areas of at least three of the neighbouring countries to Israel- the Arab Republic of Egypt, Syria and Jordan- occupied by Israeli troops. 
I would like to say at the outset that I agree with the contention of the Israeli Government that one essential for peace in the Middle East is a recognition by the Arab states of the sovereignty of Israel and the right to existence of Israel. In fact, at the last Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party I successfully moved a motion that the policy of the Australian Labor Party should include such a provision, which it now does. This is the policy of the Australian Government, namely, that it is essential for peace in the Middle East that there should be a discontinuance of the denial of the right to existence of Israel by the majority of Arab countries, and that the Arab countries should recognise that Israel is a state which does exist and which should continue to exist. 
But that is not the same thing as laying down what the borders of Israel should be. The borders of Israel are matters of negotiation. The Israeli Government claims- this is the purport of the amendments proposed to us tonight by the Democratic Labor Party and by the Liberal Party- that there ought to be direct negotiations between Israel and the contending Arab powers. Coupled with this, one finds very frequently the most stringent, caustic observations by the Government of Israel and its supporters about the United Nations, what they describe as the failure of the United Nations and the unsatisfactory nature of the United Nations. They express a general desirability not to have the matter considered by the United Nations but rather by way of direct negotiation. This is an attitude on the part of the Government of Israel which the Australian Government does not support and which I, for myself, deplore. If there is one country in the world which ought to show some loyalty to the United Nations it is Israel, because Israel would not exist if it were not for the United Nations decision in 1.948. Israel is a country which was constituted by the United Nations. For Israel, of all countries, to say that the United Nations is an organisation which should be treated with contempt and that negotiations should take place outside of the authority of the United Nations is, I believe, most deplorable and something which I hope that no Australian Government would support. 
The Israeli Government calls for direct negotiations between the parties. That is something which sounds attractive, but the consequence of any direct negotiations always has to be that one party is negotiating from a position of strength and another party is negotiating from a position of weakness. Surely the whole purpose of the painful construction of the United Nations is to remove situations whereby important decisions relating to world peace are resolved by negotiations in which one powerful country can talk te a weak neighbour. Decisions should be made on the basis of rational argument by disinterested parties, by a body which does not approach the question either from a position of strength or from a position of weakness but which tries to make a rational and humane a:sessment of the issues that are involved. 
For that reason I believe that it is essential, however unsatisfactory the United Nations may have appeared to be- certainly the United Nations is no more unsatisfactory than its individual members; it is not something separate from the individual members of the United Nations- that there should be no decision on the problems which have occurred in the Middle East unless the discussions are under the auspices o ." the United Nations. If anything were to damage world peace- not just peace in the Middle East but world peace- it would be for the United Nations to say that it was incapable of resolving ti e problems in the Middle East. They are proble  ins  which, I believe correctly, it played a major part in the creating by the resolutions which led  b  the establishment of Israel. If the United &gt;ations were to say: 'We carried resolutions w 11ch established Israel but we are incapable of keeping the peace now that disputes have broken out between Israel and its neighbours', I think lt at we could all say that: 'This is the end of the United Nations'. I do not think anybody, however critical he might be of the United Nations, would say that this would be desirable. Surely if there is to be lasting peace in the world  it  has to be achieved as a result of the sorts of negotiations which take place within the United Nations. 
What is the history of the area? I think this is important. Israel was, in historical times, the home of the Jewish people who were dispersed throughout the world and who were very oftenir fact, more often than not- cruelly and abomir ably treated by the inhabitants and the govern.ments of those countries to which they went as refugees. After the passage of the years their former area in Palestine became settled and occupied by fellow Semites of the Jewish people, the Arabs, and they became an Arab community.  In  the 19th century the Zionist movement was fiormed, primarily with a religious-Jewish orien-tadon but arising out of the persecution of the  J&gt;  wish people in central and more especially e: stern Europe. Some Jewish people- those who believed in retaining their ethnic and religious  i&lt;  entity- came to the conclusion that there was no way in which they could continue to exist in the countries in which they were living, particularly countries such as Russia and Poland, and that the only way in which they could continue to exist was to fulfil the promises of the biblical prophets and return to Israel and re-establish the nation whose people had been dispersed so many centuries before. Small settlements were established in Palestine. They continued to be small settlements until the 1 920s and particularly the 1930s when Nazi persecution of the Jews reached such a peak that many thousandsprobably hundreds of thousands- of people who themselves would never have been Zionists or never would have wished to settle in Israel had there been a normal state of affairs in their previous home countries, were driven to move to Palestine, or Israel as it subsequently became known. This was the direct result of the persecutions to which they were subjected. Theirs was a tragic story. One can only feel sympathy for them. 
I am one of those who supported the establishment of the state of Israel and still believe that it was correct that the state of Israel was constituted. Even if one were to argue that it was a mistake for the United Nations to decide some 25 years ago that Israel should be established as a state- even if one were to say that it should not have been done, despite the fact that the United States, the Soviet Union and practically every country in the world voted for the establishment of Israel- it is too late now to say that it was a mistake. It is like saying that it was a mistake that the Pilgrim Fathers went to the United States or Captain Phillip settled in Sydney. Israel is a fact; it does exist; it is a state and it is entitled to its independent existence. 
Having said that it is a state which does exist and which is entitled to exist, there are certain other things- very important things- which have still to be said. For example, what is to happen to the Palestinian Arabs who, irrespective of whether their fears were justified- I know that it is argued by spokesmen for Israel that their fears were unjustified- left the country and became refugees? What is to happen to them? The argument is very frequently put by spokesmen for Israel that they are not being looked after by the Arab countries into which they fled and that the responsibility falls on those Arab countries to look after them. I would not deny that the Arab countries do have a moral responsibility to look after kinsmen of theirs who come into their nations as refugees. I suppose we have a responsibility to look after them, too. All human beings have a responsibility to. look after them. But surely the primary responsibility for making some restitution to them falls on the people who occupy their homes and their lands- the people who now constitute the state of Israel. I make no suggestion at the present time as to how the problem is to be resolved. But I do say that there is a real problem, a very burning problem, with many hundreds of thousands of Palestinian Arab refugees from Israel. In fact the Palestinian Arab refugees from Israel are now, in the Middle East, what the Jews of Russia and Poland were in the 19th century- dispossessed people living almost without sustenance, without hope and in desperation, knowing that their former country is now occupied by somebody else. 
I do not believe it is any wonder- I do not say this is any sense of approbation- that as a consequence of this some amongst them have turned to extreme forms of violence, because that is what does happen when people are in the sort of situation in which the Jews of eastern Europe were in the 1 9th century and in which the Palestinian Arab refugees in the Middle East are today. When one is critical- I believe that one is entitled to be critical; that one ought to be critical; that one ought to deplore; and that one ought to do whatever one can to prevent actions of terrorism such as those we have seen perpetrated by .certain Arab organisations- one has to remember that this is something which seems to be almost a natural consequence of this sort of situation. 
One has only to cast one's mind back 25-odd years to know that the allegations which are now being made against Arab terrorist organisations were then being made against the Zionist terrorist organisations Irgun Zvai Leumai and the Stern Gang, of which  Senator Mulvihill  has just reminded me. I think one has to acknowledge that  Mr Menahen  Beigin, one of the leaders of the Irgun Zvai Leumai is now a leading member of the Israeli Knesset. He is a man who was, if not directly at least indirectly, responsible for the assassination of Lord Moyne in Cairo and for the hanging of 3 British sergeants during the British mandate in Palestine. I am not condemning Menahen Beigin. I am not saying that he should not be a member of the Israeli Knesset. But I can well understand some non-terrorist Arab saying: Who is the former leader of the Irgun Zvai Leumi to be reproaching our people about terrorism?' 1 think it is quite false and quite improper for us to try to judge the situation in the Middle East by counting up who committed more acts of terrorism. Appalling as were the murders committed in Munich during the Olympic Games by an 
Arab organisation, I do not find them any more appalling than the murders that took place in Beirut only recently of the leaders of the Palestinian Liberation Organisation. I cannot say it is disgraceful to murder the Israeli athletes, which it is; but that somehow it is different, it is not, so bad, to murder one of the leading Arab poets" in his own home in Beirut or to capture a man in his home city of Beirut and take him to Israel and, by a most extraordinary distortion of any judicial process, charge him with belonging to an illegal organisation when the organisation was legal in the country in which he lived but illegal in Israel. 
To bring him to Israel and charge him with being a member of an illegal organisation, which is what is being done at the present time, would be parallel to someone from South Africa coming to Australia, kidnapping a member of the South African Defence and Aid Fund and taking him to Johannesburg and trying him for being a member of an illegal organisation when the organisation to which he belonged was perfectly legal in this country. So I do not think we ought to discuss the question on the basis of who committed the acts of terrorism. What I think we have to do is try to resolve a very difficult problem. For this reason 1 believe that the approach of the Government and, I think, in general terms the approach of the amendment which has been foreshadowed by  Senator Sim,  are attempt's to do this by saying that we should have an evenhanded policy. What contribution can Australia possibly make to the settlement of this dispute and what possible assistance can we give to the Australian who is at present sitting as  Chairman  of the Security Council in resolving these difficulties if, before we even start to discuss them, we say the Arabs are right and the Israelis are wrong, or vice versa. 
-Senator Little said that the United Nations observer said something. I do not care what the United Nations observer said. I am asking how we can have our representative act as  Chairman  of the Security Council- how on earth we can make any contribution to the resolution of these difficulties- if we do no adopt an even-handed attitude.  Senator Little  would like us to make an heroic declaration in Canberra condemning, I take it, the Arab states, the Soviet Union and anybody else who happened to be connected with the Middle East position, and then to withdraw from the proceedings and take no further part in them, because that would be the consequence. Australia is not a major power with any military influence in the area. The only influence we can possibly hope to exercise in the area in order to achieve peace is to approach the matter as an evenhanded country which does not have any vested interests and which is trying to resolve the question in the light of morality and justice. To turn up at the United Nations and say: 'Before we get to you we would like to tell you that we have already found one side guilty and the other side not guilty 'is tantamount to saying: 'We intend to wash our hands of the whole affair'. 
-That is in fact what the Democratic Labor Party's motion says. I would say at the same time that it seems to be quite absurd for the Senate to say that it is going to condemn the Soviet Union for selling or providing arms to the Arab countries. We can condemn the Soviet Union for providing arms to the Arab countries only if we condemn the United States for providing arms to Israel because there has been a two-sided traffic going on. It is not as if Israel is manufacturing its own arms and the Arab countries are getting their arms from the Soviet Union. What has happened is that there has been a conflict of interest between the Soviet Union and the United States with the Soviet Union supporting certain Arab countries and the United States supporting Israel. I am not condemning anybody for that. I am not saying that either the United States or the Soviet Union is acting maliciously or endeavouring to create havoc or harm. I am not saying that either is doing anything other than what it conscientiously believes to be correct. But it would certainly be absurd to say that we should condemn those people who are giving material assistance to one side and, at the same time, not saying anything at all about the actions of the other major power which is giving material assistance to the other side. I believe that this would be quite foolish, quite wrong and quite damaging to our position. 
The proposition which is before the Chair- the motion which has been moved by  Senator Kane  and amended by  Senator Byrne-  is that we should condemn Syria and the Arab Republic of Egypt for their attack on Israel. I believe that this is not a proposition which holds water. Those areas into which the Arab Republic of Egypt and Syria moved their troops are areas which are legally part of Egypt and Syria. They did not invade Israel. 
It could be said, if one wanted to make this sort of point, with just as much justice that what happened as far as the battle around the Suez 
Canal was concerned was that the Egyptian Government decided to move some of its armed forces from one part of Egypt to another and was prevented from doing so by Israeli aggression. One could just as easily say that. In fact one could say that with quite complete justice because Israel itself admits that the Golan Heights area in Syria which it now occupies, and the Sinai peninsula, are parts respectively of Syria and of Egypt and not parts of Israel. They were taken by force by Israel in 1 967 for whatever reasons it may have had for making a pre-emptive strike on the basis of what they guessed or thought might happen. They were the ones who committed a specific act of military aggression against Syria and Egypt. They invaded Syria and Egypt in 1967. Whatever they thought may have been going to happen the fact is that it was the Israeli troops who moved into Syria and Egypt. I will not condemn the Israelis for that. There may well have been good reasons in their judgment for doing so. It may well be that if I had been in their position I would have wanted to do and would have decided to do precisely the same thing. But the fact remains that that is what happened. They moved into Syria and Egypt, and occupied Syrian and Egyptian territory. They are continuing to occupy it not only by force and illegally but also in direct contravention to a decision of the United Nations, the organisation which created Israel. That is the precise position at the present time. 
Israel illegally and by force occupied some of the territory of their neighbours contrary to a decision of the United Nations. I do not believe that in those circumstances, whatever sympathy one can have for Israel, one can turn round and say: We are going to condemn the Egyptians and Syrians for trying to move into their own territory'. If, for example, some other country were to have attacked Australia in 1967 and occupied the northern part of Queensland, and the United Nations had carried a resolution saying that that country should withdraw its troops from Australia, and in 1973 we sent our troops back into that part of Queensland which was occupied by that foreign power, would we accept a proposition which said that we were guilty of aggression? Guilty of aggression against whom? Why cannot the Egyptian Army go onto the Sinai peninsula? Why cannot the Syrian Army go onto the Golan Heights? One is part of Egypt and the other is part of Syria. I concede the point that has been made, and it is a very valid point, that Israel has a great deal to fear. Above all things they have to fear the attitudes adopted by governments in a number of Arab countries. Certainly the treatment of Jewish minorities in a number of Arab countries is of such a nature as would inspire any Israeli to have the utmost fear of what could be done to him. Certainly the treatment of the Jewish population in Baghdad by successive Iraqi governments has been one of the most disgraceful episodes this century. Although the position of the Jewish population in Egypt has certainly not been as bad, that likewise has not been anything which would lead one to have a great deal of faith in the sort of treatment - 
I will come to that later. No one could do anything but deplore the treatment of the Jewish minorities in the great majority of, if not all, Arab countries. Certainly the Arabs do not come into these negotiations with clean hands as is shown by their own attitude. But what we are faced with is a conflict which could well lead to a third world war because not only are the people of these countries involved, not only are their territories involved but also questions of the utmost strategic and economic importance to the major powers of the world are involved. There are matters which prevail in those countries which would certainly encourage any power to take much more interest in the disputes which are taking place in the Middle East than probably in any other part of the world. 
First of all there is the strategic geographical position of the area. Although over recent years geographical positions have not been as important as they once were, there is still considerable importance in the geographical position of the area in dispute. Probably even more important is the economic situation in regard to the world supply of oil coming from those areas. So it seems that if there is to be any worsening of the tension and conflict in those areas what we are faced with is a real possibility of a major world war involving the major powers. Although the major powers are confronting each other over the present dispute between Israel and her Arab neighbours the fact remains that the settlement is not one which in the end can be made by the major powers. It is one which can be made only as the result of a just settlement between the Arabs and Israelis. I believe that there are certain essential points to be recognised. The first of them is that the Arab countries all recognise that Israel is a State with its independent right of existence and, having recognised that, that there must be negotiations as to where the borders of 
Israel and the Arab countries are to be. Insofar as it is possible to do this, satisfactory arrangements then need to be made for the rehabilitation, compensation or re-settlement of the Arab refugees from Israel. 
It seems to me that these are not matters which ought to be left to the parties which are directly involved to negotiate when their negotiations will be largely subject to which of them thinks that for the time being it has the strength. These are questions which can be resolved only by all countries of the world through the United Nations, and the most valuable contribution which our country can make is not to be condemning any of the parties involved in the dispute or their friends and supporters but by strengthening the United Nations, by seeing that this country plays a significant and impartial role within the United Nations. That is precisely the policy which this Government has laid down and for that reason I support the amendment moved by  Senator Willesee. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Is it a fact that on 20 September this year the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs announced that the Federal Government was to send up to 5 Aboriginal nursing sisters to Palm Island aboriginal reserve in an attempt to help to cure the current outbreak of gastro-enteritis and scabies and the continuing problem of malnutrition? Were the sisters sent? Is it a fact that the one sister who did go was refused access to the hospital? Was she recalled by the Federal Government? If so, why? Does the Federal Government propose to take any further action regarding the present health problems on Palm Island? 
I had not intended to intervene in this debate until I heard some of the latter remarks  Senator McManus.  The reason I did not intend to speak on this subject is that what we have heard this afternoon and this evening from Opposition speakers have been variations on the tired old unmelodious theme that we have been hearing down the years in this Senate. It is the theme that  Dr Evatt  was an agent of Molotov, that  Dr Cairns  was an agent of Ho Chi Minh and that now the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  is the agent of Mao Tse-tung. I think the people of Australia have shown the Opposition parties what they think about those claims. They have treated this nonsense with contempt. I think that it is only from a very bankrupt opposition that we can find this same dreary drivel being served up to us again. 
What I do wish to come to are some matters raised at the end of  Senator McManus  's speech in which he made some reference to the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, of which I am  Chairman.  Apparently  Senator McManus  wishes us to believe that in some way the Government has been involved in a conspiracy in order to clip the wings of the once powerful body- the Foreign Affairs Committeeand to hamper its activities under the new constraints under which he says it has been put. I wish to deal with some of the points which  Senator McManus  made. First, he told us that the Committee did not meet for 7 months. In fact, the Committee met immediately it was constituted - 
-It met immediately it was constituted as a completely new committee which had no predecessor in this Parliament. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  Order! 
If I am not going too well it is because the Acting  Deputy President  apparently is unable to hear some of the interjections. The Committee sat immediately it had been constituted.  Senator McManus  complains, apparently- I take it,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  that you at any rate can hear me above the interjections- that one of the incorrect actions taken by the Government has been to refer matters to the Committee. Those matters include the investigation of the foreign affairs and defence implications of an Omega station in Australia and the question of dual nationality. I am surprised that  Senator McManus  should object to the reference on dual nationality because the Committee that is humourously described as the Senate Select Committee on the Civil Rights of Migrant Australians was supposed to report on dual nationality, among all its other problems. One would have thought that it was rather late for the Leader of the Democratic Labor Party,  Senator McManus,  to be complaining about any parliamentary committee inquiring into dual nationality. Is it to be alleged that the question of an Omega station in Australia is not an important question? Of course it is an important question. It is a very important question. 

Yes, it is important to the Prime Minister. It is important to me. It is important to the Parliament. It is important to the people of Australia. That is why this matter is being considered.  Senator McManus  has said that somehow the work of the Committee has been stymied by dealing with these other matters. But he said that the  Chairman  was able to assure the Committee meeting that it would be able to hear witnesses on these various matters on which he wants to hear them. It is not a question of the  Chairman  - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-Order! 
-Thank you. It is not a question of the  Chairman  being able to assure the Committee that anything was going to happen at all. The Committee resolved that this was what would be done. At no stage has the  Chairman  ever suggested any action which has not been the wish- I would say the unanimous wish- of the Committee. When the matter of the Omega station was referred to the Committee a time-table was set for the evidence which would be heard and the  Chairman  has carried out the wishes of the Committee. At no stage has the  Chairman,  the Government or anybody else tried to inflict any sort of time-table on the Committee. When it was suggested at the last meeting of the Committee that, as all the evidence on the Omega station had been heard, there should be a deferment of hearing the first evidence on the question of dual nationality so that some witnesses could be heard on matters of a more general nature, this suggestion was agreed to by the  Chairman  and by all the Labor Party members of the Committee who were present at that meeting. So all the decisions which have been taken by the Committee about the manner in which it would transact its business were decisions taken by the Committee. Despite the statements by  Senator McManus  about that Committee, I can recollect that at no stage did he object to any time-table which the Committee laid down. He waited until its deliberations were finished and his speech was being broadcast when there were little old ladies in white tennis shoes huddled around their radio sets wondering what was the latest good news from the DLP, before he told us about the terrible things that went on. But when he was at Committee meetings with his colleagues what did we hear from him on this matter? Not one word! 
I wish to say something about this Committee. I find it rather extraordinary that an Opposition senator should be saying that somehow or other this once great Committee which used to function has now been sabotaged by this Government. I well recollect the previous Committee, which bore a similar name. I was a member of it. Occasionally I attended its meetings, lt was like a sort of secret Workers Education Association class at which people from the Department of Foreign Affairs or somewhere gave us information which sounded like a resume of last month's Reader's Digest'. It was all done in secrecy and behind closed doors. Not one word from this power house of secret information was to be given to the public. There we were with documents marked 'Secret' or with the name of the recipient on them and the words 'Do not open unless and until you have turned the lights off'. This is what used to go on under the previous Government. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  Order!  Senator Wheeldon,  I know that you are replying to statements which were made by  Senator McManus,  but I remind you that the Senate is debating a ministerial statement on the visit of the Prime Minister to Japan and China. Therefore, I would be glad if you would return to the subject matter before the Senate. 
-Mr Acting  Deputy President,  I appreciate your interest in the Standing Orders although, if I may say so, it is a little belated. I am replying to matters which were raised in relation to the statement. The allegation was made that the Prime Minister was trying in some way to sabotage discussion on foreign affairs because of actions which he has taken in relation to this Committee.- We have opened the proceedings of the Committee to the public, something which the previous Government was afraid to do. The Australian Labor Party has constituted a committee which hears public evidence. Evidence on a matter of public importance is heard in public. The deliberations and the questions are in public. The Government is proud of this. 
I deal now with some of the other matters which have been raised. It was rather interesting that the allegation should be made that somehow  Mr Whitlam  is a front man for the Chinese. I am rather interested that when the Opposition deals with this matter it feels no urge to explain its change in position. I can remember- it must have been within the last few months- when the Government was not a front for the Chinese Communist Party but was a front for the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. I would have thought that  Senator McManus,  with his deep interest in these matters and with his theological background, would have been able to explain the matter to us because it is a very complex problem. 
I appreciate a theological background. I have one. 
It is very clean. The allegation has been made that on one occasion we were following the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. No one has ever corrected that allegation and said: 'We would like to draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that the ALP followed the Communist Party of the Soviet Union but it does not do so any more'. We are being told, without any correction, that the same Party which follows the Communist Party of the Soviet Union also follows the Communist Party of China- a remarkable feat which even Houdini would have been incapable of performing. 
I would not agree with  Senator Turnbull  's statement that the North. Vietnamese people hate the Chinese people. I was recently in the Democratic Republic of Vietnam. I was subjected to some criticism for going there. I think I was alleged on that occasion to be some sort of agent for the Vietnam Workers ' Party, a communist party. I did not find that they hated the Chinese Communist Party, China or the Chinese people. They certainly pursue an independent line. They do now kowtow to the Chinese. They do not accept directions from the Chinese Communist Party or the Chinese Government. They have closer relations, although by no means indissoluble bonds or overpowering bonds, with the Soviet Union. It would be interesting to learn from some of the Opposition speakers who have accused us of being agents of North Vietnamese communists and of being agents of Ho Chi Minh how it is that we are simultaneously his agents and the agents of his Party and the agents of China when the Vietnam Workers' Party still belongs to the Communist and Workers International which the Chinese Communist Party has condemned as a revisionist organisation. They are matters which have been raised.  Senator Greenwood  spoke for long enough to explain them. I think he has not stopped talking for half the time that the Senate has been in session for the past couple of years. I should have been interested to hear him explain some of these matters to us, because they are very intricate and very complex. Perhaps he could shed some light on them for us. 
The Australian Government has, for the first time in nearly a quarter of a century, recognised what reality is. Despite what the previous Government said, China is not a little island off the coast. China is a huge country which has approximately one-third of the world's population. It is a growing country. It is a country which, whether one agrees or disagrees with it, is a powerful and increasingly powerful country and a country with which it is in the essential interests of Australia to have close relations and to have trade relations. This Government has established those relations. I should like to see members of the Opposition go to the farmers and the manufacturers of this country and tell them that they are opposed to the trade agreement with China. Are members of the Opposition opposed to the trade agreement with China? Do they believe that we should not have this agreement with China? Do they believe that we should not have a trade agreement with the German Democratic Republic? Do they believe that we should not engage in substantial wheat sales, for the first time, to a country of 20 million people which the bankrupt Opposition, so recently thrown out of office, said  did  not exist? 
They are the real issues. We have a government which acknowledges reality and which says: 'China is there. There it is. We recognise it. We trade with it. We want to have friendly relations with it. There is the German Democratic Republic. There is North Vietnam. We want to work together with all these countries and try, with all the difficulties- we know there are difficulties- to bring about some peace in this war-torn world in which all of us have the mls.furtune to live'. We have done not only these things but we have done concrete things in the matter of trade. We have improved the standard of living of the Australian people by making it possible for Australia to enter into trade arrangements with these countries in a way in which the previous Government was completely incapable of doing. For those reasons, I welcome the statement by the Prime Minister. 
I think that on the whole  Senator Rae  addressed himself to this subject in somewhat moderate terms apart perhaps from his peroration when he became a little agitated, and during one earlier stage in the debate when I detected a catch in his voice when he referred to the nefarious activities of the Karmel Committee in stealing some of the contents of that mysterious document- the brochure which the Liberal Party has published but which so far has not been seen by many of us. I think it is appropriate that there should be a rather academic discussion on the amendments which have been proposed. 
I was thinking of academic rather than ecumenical although I thank  Senator McManus  for his conciliatory suggestion. It is appropriate that there should be an academic discussion on this matter because the debate itself is largely academic since the question before the Senate, as  Senator Rae  is aware and to which he referred in his closing remarks, is whether the Bill will be passed or rejected. If the amendments- certainly the substantive amendments proposed by  Senator Rae  on behalf of the Opposition- are carried they will so alter the nature of the proposed Schools Commission, not to amend it or to improve it or make it work a little more easily, but to change totally its nature, and although it will have the same name it will bear no resemblance to the organisation proposed in this Bill. The Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  on behalf of the Government- the Government is united on this -will not accept the amendments. He will not take his bat and ball and go home but will continue on the same basis as we have proceeded throughout the months since Labor was elected in December last year, carrying out our policy which we undertook to carry out in our policy speech through the means of the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission. Unsatisfactory though this may be- it is much more satisfactory to have a Schools Commission constituted by statute- it certainly would be much better to have a continuation of the existing Interim Committee than the distortion of the Schools Commission which is proposed in the amendments moved by  Senator Rae. 
I think I should perhaps deal with a couple of matters raised by  Senator Rae  before I go to the substance of the amendments, although even here I would think that detailed scrutiny of the amendments should be left to the Committee stage: However, I should like to refer to 2 matters.  Senator Rae  has complained that the previous Government was somehow caught short; that a number of things were in the pipeline. They had been put into the pipeline apparently about 23 years ago and were still proceeding along it. I can assure him that if and when our National Pipeline Authority is established, it will work with a great deal more efficiency than did the Liberal Party education pipeline because the things which the Liberal Party had in the pipeline seemed to have become clogged somewhere between where they were put in and where they are supposed to come out as they had not come out even though the Liberal Party had been in office for 23 years. I do not want to enter into any verbal gymnastics on this matter but I want to refer to some figures. I think they speak for themselves. If one has any doubt about the relative dedication to education by the Federal 
Government of the Australian Labor Party and its conservative opponents, one has only to look at the sums which have been expended by the two Federal Governments during the past 2 years. In its last year, the previous conservative Federal Government allocated $404m for education. In the first year of our Government in office we have allocated $843m for education, an increase of 92 per cent. 
I heard  Senator Rae  in silence apart from assisting him on a geographical matter. I suggest to  Senator Rae  that he will be greeted in stony silence if he goes to those people throughout Australia who are concerned about education and talks to them about the length of the Liberal Party pipeline and how much was inside it when those people can refer to the fact that we have almost doubled the amount spent on education by the Commonwealth Government from 1972 to 1973. 
The other matter raised by  Senator Rae  was the fact that an opportunity had not been given to the Senate to debate the Karmel Committee's report. I do not want to labour this subject, but in case anybody feels that the Karmel report has not been ventilated before the Senate, they should be reminded that the Opposition parties which have effective control of this chamber, per medium of  Senator Rae  himself on 22 August last moved an urgency motion relating to education which contained some rather severe strictures against the Government's education policy in general and the Karmel report in particular. There was an extensive debate in this Senate on 22 August last on the Karmel report and other problems of education. 
I turn to the amendments which  Senator Rae  has proposed. The first thing that I believe has to be said- this has to be repeated- is that the policy which has been put forward in the Schools Commission Bill 1973 is Australian Labor Party policy which was well known and clearly presented to the Australian people before they voted in the election on 2 December 1972. There was no ambiguity; there was no doubt. It was contained in our policy speech given by our leader; it was in the printed policy speech; it was in all the material on education which was prepared by this Party; it was the advice given by this Party which now forms the Government to all those persons throughout Australia concerned with education. The policy provided for a specific type of Schools Commission. This type of Schools Commission was debated very extensively within the councils of the Labor Party. I would not say that there is no dispute, no discussion or no scope for a wide variety of opinions on how a schools commission should be constituted. (Opposition senators interjecting) 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)-  Order! I suggest to honourable senators who are interjecting that they remember that the Senate proceedings are being broadcast and that the subject being discussed is of national importance. I trust they will remember that. 
If I may say so,  Mr Deputy President,  I am delighted that the proceedings are being broadcast so that those people who are listening to the broadcast can learn the quality of the Opposition and its contribution to these debates. The question of the constitution of the Schools Commission was freely debated. There were people within the Labor Party who believed that the Commission should be constituted on a representative basis and that various organisations and interest groups concerned about education should have representatives or delegates serving on the Schools Commission. These views were debated at the Labor Party conference. They were not debated in secret; they were debated in public. Everyone heard them. This was on television and on radio. We debated the matter most extensively. The Party decided what sort of schools commission it should be. It decided that it should not be a schools commission consisting of representatives of various organisations and interest groups but that it should be a body similar to the Universities Commission, for example, which does not consist of representatives of interest groups. 
The Universities Commission, which performs a similar function to that which will be performed by the Schools Commission proposed by this Government and the Pre-schools Commission proposed by this Government, was constituted by the previous Government. The Universities Commission acts precisely on the same basis as is proposed in our Bill in regard to the Schools Commission. The Universities Commission established by the previous Government does not have delegate members. It has members nominated in general because of their knowledge of university education or the applicability of university education to the various fields of the national life. In taking this into account naturally one has to consider various interest groups. Clearly this is a factor which is taken into account, as we took it into account in regard to the appointment of members to the Interim Schools Committee. We have taken it into account in our proposals for the establishment of the Schools Commission. But that is not the same thing as saying that these people are to serve on the Commission as delegates. 
The argument advanced against the proposition that the Schools Commission should be a type of delegate or representative body- I was one of those who sucessfully argued for the policy which was adopted at the Labor Party conferencewas that in having a schools commission which consisted of a certain number of delegates from private schools, a certain number from state schools and all the other possible permutations and combinations that one could think of, we would not have a quasi-judicial body looking over all the needs of education without somebody being responsible to someone else and being responsible for election or nomination to some organisation or interest group. The difficulty would be that, if we did have people representing interest groups in this way, we would have a son of multi-party miniature parliament with the leader of the State school group and the  deputy  leader of the private school group, and possibly a whip or two thrown in to count the numbers and work out who had instructed whom and who had made deals- all things which are not wrong in themselves but which I believe are a natural concomitant of having any organisation constituted in this manner. 
The amendment which is proposed by  Senator Rae  would do precisely this. It would do precisely what we rejected when we were considering this matter. I do not believe that the position is in any way improved when he provides in his proposed clause  4b: 
A member shall not be responsible to the body or organisation which recommended the member or submitted the member's name in a panel of names. 
I feel that for the record I should refer to the fact that  Senator Rae  has included what he presumably thinks is this safeguard amongst his proposed amendments. But I would suggest to you,  Mr Deputy President,  that this is clearly not satisfactory because for one thing I do not know- and I think it would be very difficult to explain precisely- what is meant by that part of the amendment which states that a member is not responsible to the organisation which has appointed him. It would seem to me to be fairly clear that, if a person has been appointed by an organisation, even though legally he is not responsible to that organisation if he does not carry out the sort of policy that the organisation wants he will not be nominated again. 
One of the other problems which I believe is quite a serious problem- I do not want to labour it because I think it is a difficult legal problemconcerns a section of the Constitution which has not been tested to any extent before the High Court. This matter is contained in  Senator Rae  's proposed clause  4(4).  The amendment proposes that one member of the Schools Commission shall be appointed on the recommendation of the Education Executive of the Episcopal Conference of Australia. It may well be, and I think that many people would argue that it is, unconstitutional for such a proposition to be put forward. It is certainly not people who would have some sectarian bias against the Episcopal Conference or the Catholic Church who would make such a suggestion. In fact Archbishop Cahill, who is the secretary of the Episcopal Conference, has said that in his opinion it would be unconstitutional for the Education Executive of the Episcopal Conference to appoint a . delegate or representative to the Schools Commission. Why this is so, and I would suggest that even the most captious critic would say it possibly is so- is because of section  116  of the Constitution. This is the section which deals with the nonestablishment of religion in Australia. In particular it provides that no religious test shall be required as a qualification for any office or public trust under the Commonwealth. In order to be a member of the Education Executive of the Episcopal Conference one has to be a member of the Catholic Church. Clearly this imposes, as I think many other people including Archbishop Cahill would submit this, a religious test on the appointment of a member of the Schools Commission. 
Other matters were raised by  Senator Rae.  I think that one of them is one of fundamental importance. I refer to the amendment which he proposes to move to clause  13 ( 1 )  of the Bill. The clause as it stands states: 
The needs of such schools in respect of buildings, equipment, staff and other facilities, and the respective priorities to be given to the satisfying of those various needs; 

 Senator Rae's amendment seeks to delete those words and to replace them with the following words:  "(b) The needs of primary and secondary school students in respect of buildings, equipment, teaching and other staff and other facilities and teaching aids and the respective priorities to be given to the satisfying of those various needs and to the improvement of the quality of education available for primary and secondary school students in Australia; ". 
Insofar as this proposed amendment means anything- I am not trying to be insulting but insofar as I can understand it- it says that you should not look at the needs of schools; you should look at the needs of students. It seems to me it says that you should not inspect and ascertain the relative levels of poverty from one school to another but at the respective levels of need of one student and another. It seems to me that if you are to do that you should not be calling it a Schools Commission; you ought to be calling it a students commission. It may well be that there is a role for a students commission. It seems to me to be quite an appropriate sort of welfare body which could well fit in with an overall education theory. In itself 1 would not be opposed to this because I think that, in a society in which there is not equality- and there is not equality in this society- even though 2 students may be attending the same school and may use the same facilities inside the school they are still not equal because one may come from a home where there are no books, where it is difficult to study, and where there are diet deficiencies and all sorts of things like this and the other student may be in a better position. These are some of the things that ought to be examined. But they would seem to be much more appropriately part of a social welfare or social services program. 
If the amendment to clause 1 3 ( 1 ) (b) which is to be proposed by  Senator Rae  is successful, it would mean that this Commission would no longer be examining the needs of schools at all. If one came from a reasonably well-off family and went to a poor school apparently on this basis one would be all right; but if one came from reasonably poor family and for some reason went to a better school one would need additional facilities. All these things may well be true. But they are not a way of assessing the needs of education. They are a way of assessing the needs of a number of citizens or residents who happen to be going to school, but they are not a problem of a school itself. For those reasons I believe this is quite an inappropriate amendment to this sub-clause. The consequence will be that it will no longer be a schools commission at all. This is not an amendment or an improvement as  Senator Rae  has said, however desirable it may be. It is certainly introducing something totally different from what has been proposed in the Bill which is something on which the Australian Labor Party was elected at the last election. In clause 13 (3) (a)- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)-  Order!  Senator Rae,  are you raising a point of order? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! It is customary in debate on the second reading to deal with the matter in general and not in detail.  Senator Wheeldon  has proceeded to anticipate the debate which will occur later at the Committee stage. Therefore to that extent I uphold the point which has been raised. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy President.  Perhaps I could put it this way: The policy of the Australian Labor Party which was clearly expressed and which is brought to at least partial fulfilment in the Bill which is before us is to be found in clause 13 (3) (a) of the Bill which states: 
the primary obligation, in relation to education, for governments to provide and maintain government  school systems that are of the highest standard and are open, without fees or religious tests, to all children. 
Again this is a policy on which we were elected. The Australian Labor Party after a lot of debate and not without some disagreement, which is well known and which was conducted in public, decided that certain assistance ought to be given to non-government schools. But at the same time the Party resolved and told the electors- it did not mislead anybody on this matter- that although such aid would be given to nongovernment schools, nonetheless the principle remained that the first responsibility and commitment of the Government was to government schools. Any proposition which was put forward by way of amendment or any other way which suggested that this responsibility did not exist and that there was just a general responsibility to students would be contrary to the policy on which we were elected, contrary to the trust which the Australian people reposed in us and contrary to the interests of the Australian people who voted for this policy when they elected the Labor Government on 2 December 1972. 1 do not want to take up much more of the time of the Senate because there will be opportunity for debating some proposed amendments which, no doubt, will come before the Senate when the Bill goes into the Committee stage. But,  Mr Deputy President,  I repeat this to you: The matters which are contained within our Schools Commission Bill which is now before you are matters which are fundamental to the education policy of the Government. 
We have already taken steps by announcing the proposed members of the Schools Commission, if this Bill is passed, to show to the Australian people and the Parliament- so that nobody is being misled- who are the people who will be serving on this Commission. I do not think anybody can deny that they represent a wide variety of interests, of schools, of backgrounds and of organisations concerned with education. I do not think anybody could criticise the proposed composition of the Commission. It may be that someone can criticise one member or another member but I believe the general tenor of the Commission is beyond criticism. We have said, and we mean it, that we do not propose to accept any of the substantial amendments of which notice has been given and which the Opposition attempted to have passed through the House of Representatives. We believe that this policy is something which the Australian people supported and which they are entitled to receive. If this Bill is not carried at least in substantially the same form in which it is now we shall not accept the amendments. We shall continue with an Interim Schools Committee and wait until such time in the near future that we also have a majority in this chamber in order to carry the Bill which is before the Senate tonight. 
I have very little knowledge other than what I have read in newspapers about the affairs of Alexander and Thomas Barton or of  Mr McCaw  whom I have never met or heard of apart from what I have read in the newspapers. All that I know of the matter that has been raised by  Senator Gietzelt  is that I know the information which he gave to the Senate tonight was information which had only recently come into his possession. In fact, it came into his possession only today. I believe he was acting properly in drawing it to the attention of the Senate. The very fact that there had been litigation about another matter related to the Barton companies but not related to the specific allegation made tonight, which relates to claims which have been made by an investigating officer of the Corporate Affairs Commission of New South Wales, is beside the point. 
What prompts me to rise is to comment on the absurd impertinent hypocrisy of  Senator Wright-  that  Senator Wright  should of all people have the audacity today to come into this Senate and accuse people - 
I will withdraw it. I do not want to haggle about it. I only wish to say that I find  Senator Laucke  's sensitivity rather disarming. 
I have withdrawn. 

 -Mr President, I have withdrawn. But having withdrawn, I would like to comment that I am surprised at the sudden sensitivity which has overcome  Senator Laucke,  who was quite happy to hear the word 'mudbag' being used by  Senator Wright  and I also was quite startled to hear  Senator Wright  suggesting that words which impute impropriety should not be used when he described  Senator Gietzelt  as a 'mudbag' on several occasions a few moments ago. 
I will not use the word 'hypocrisy' but I will say that it is a sign of the selectivity of  Senator Wright  in approaching these matters. I find it completely audacious on his part to come into the Senate tonight to complain about an abuse of privilege when only yesterday when this very Senate was discussing the purchase of a painting by this Government he referred to corruption on the part of people who were not involved in politicspeople engaged in business. He in his coward's castle accused of corruption people whom he knew could not answer. Yet he now comes along with this fulsome manner he has, which of course impresses no one, even his own colleagues in the Liberal Party who have approximately the same opinion of him as I have, and tries to impress us with this superior virtue that he,  Senator Wright,  would never traduce anybody outside the Parliament, when he has made a career of it ever since he has been in the place. I do not think anybody is impressed. I do not think the Press will succumb to his insults. The Press will have watched him down the years and will not take very seriously what he has said tonight.  Senator Gietzelt  has drawn the attention of the Senate to a serious matter. He has made a specific proposal that there ought to be an inquiry by way of royal commission into this matter. The fact that there are or are not elections to be held is not in my view a matter which affects the validity of what he has said tonight. He raised this matter as soon as the information was given to him and I believe he has properly raised it. I do not believe that the insults of  Senator Wright  will overcome what he has said. The only way that it can be overcome is to have a royal commission or inquiry along the lines  Senator Gietzelt  suggested. 
I do not think that anything that has been said so far is likely to inflame the passions of the Senate or anybody outside the Senate either one way or the other. The matter of urgency, which is before the Senate and which was raised by  Senator Durack,  is delightful in its generality but probably not in any other respect. We have heard today a rather tedious recitation of general grievances which the Liberal Party has about a Labor government. In fact, at the end of  Senator Durack  's speech he digressed miles away from this question of the growing concentration of excessive power into a discussion of the rights and the wrongs of the goldmining industry.  Senator Durack  could not even restrain himself from reflecting on the honesty of the Australian Democratic Labor Party in proposing that a referendum should be held to give power over incomes to the Commonwealth Parliament. I take it that  Senator McManus  will later take up this matter and endeavour to refute the allegations which have been made against him and his Party by  Senator Durack.  I will leave that to  Senator McManus  who on behalf of his Party, I am sure, will not wish silently to accept the allegations and innuendoes which have been cast against him by  Senator Durack  on behalf of the Liberal Party. 
What have we heard today? We have heard a tale of woe. I do not think  Senator Durack  was really very interested in this matter; he certainly did not sound very interested. I suppose that the legislation that is being considered by the Senate is becoming distressing to members of the Opposition. They found they had to debate concrete and substantial matters, so they decided to get back to some waffle in order to repair their breaths for when the substantial legislation which the Government is introducing comes back before the Senate. 
What instances did  Senator Durack  cite for the shocking things which he says are going on- this rapidly growing concentration of excessive and arbitrary power in Canberra by the Federal Labor Government? One of the rather curious instances that he cited referred to the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill, which he seemed to regard as a cornerstone of the socialist policies of the Labor Government. I must say that I find that a rather curious argument.  Senator Durack  seems to me to be fulfilling a rather new role not only in his peroration when he denounced the DLP because of its incomes policy, but also in the body of his speech when he denounced the majority of his colleagues who voted for all the substantial provisions of the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill when it was passed by the Senate yesterday.  Senator Durack  reflected very seriously not only on the DLP but also on  Mr Gorton  and many honourable senators from the Liberal Party who voted for the Government's proposal. 
I do not wish to debate the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill again. I am sure that those Liberal senators and those Liberal members in another place whose integrity and strangely hitherto concealed socialist tendencies have been attacked by  Senator Durack  will be capable later of defending themselves as, I am sure,  Senator McManus  will be capable of defending himself from the slurs which have been cast on his Party's good name by  Senator Durack  in what he has said today. 
I thought that I would give the honourable senator some assistance. I thought that he could use a good advocate. Another instance of the growing and excessive power of this socialist Government, which was quoted by  Senator Durack  and which I found a little difficult to follow, was the Government's decision to establish the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee. For the first time in the history of Australia, the Aboriginal people of this country are to be consulted, through a committee elected by them, on what should be done in matters relating to Aborigines so that they, directly through this Committee, can advise the Australian Government and the Australian Parliament on what they, as the people best able to judge, believe to be the interests of the Aboriginal people.  Senator Durack  says that there is a growing concentration of arbitrary and excessive power in Canberra. But, as I have said, for the first time in the history of Australia, the Government is going to the Aboriginal people in order to seek their advice and to confer with them. We are giving them the right to elect their members to serve on this Committee. I do not follow the point made by  Senator Durack  but, apparently having raised the matter of urgency, he decided to include all those things which he does not like. I think that  Senator Durack  would have done much better if, instead of including all these rather tired phrases in the wording of this matter of urgency, had just said: 'The Senate does not like the Labor Government', or words to that effect. That is really all  Senator Durack  had to say. That would have been much more satisfactory than to weigh us down with this cumbersome matter of urgency that we have before us at present. 

 Senator Durack says that there is a growing concentration of arbitrary and excessive power because various councils have been established to advise the Government on the arts- the visual arts, the graphic arts, music, theatre, films and so on. I do not set myself up as an authority on the manner in which these councils have been formed. I know that there has been some argument as to whether some people have too much influence on the councils and whether some people, who do not have influence, ought to have influence on the councils, but the fact is that again, for the first time in the history of Australia, bodies have been set up, which represent those people who actively practise the arts, to advise the Government on what ought to be done regarding its arts policy. Instead of just saying that a Minister or a permanent head of a department or a bureaucrat in some office shall determine what shall be done about literature, music and films and their development in Australia, we have actually established councils which comprise representatives of those people who practise these arts. It is a democratic process, a broadening of consultation in an important field.  Senator Durack,  again for mysterious reasons, says that the establishment of these consultative councils is a concentration of excessive and arbitrary powers. 

 Senator Durack during his remarks repeatedly said that this Government is a socialist Government. I for one do not feel in any way insulted by being described as a socialist. I regard socialism as an admirable goal, but I take it that that is not what  Senator Durack  believes. I detected a rather unhappy note in his voice, a certain catching of the breath, when he used the word 'socialist'. I took it to mean that he was not approving of the Government being a socialist Government.  Senator Durack  had quite a long time in which to speak. He was able to talk about the goldmining industry, the incomes policy and various other things. One would have thought that if he wanted to say that the Government was a socialist Government he would have pointed to some instance of socialism- not of something that might happen in the future, but of socialism, of some proposed nationalisation or transfer to social ownership of some industry at present in private hands. 
I listened with great attention, and I did not hear  Senator Durack  mention one instance of socialism. I heard words rolling out in a monotonous way about the socialist Government, but not one tiny little bit of evidence as to what it was that constituted socialism within this Government. I must confess that had  Senator Durack  been able to point to some such instance of socialism I personally would have welcomed it; I would not have deplored it. He has told us that many commissions have been set up. I think he said there are 77 of them. Again, in the case of the arts there is not a concentration of arbitrary power in the hands of ministers or permanent heads of departments, but an effort to bring broad sections of the Australian people from the fields in which they are interested and active into consultation with the Government. Is this a concentration of arbitrary power? I say that it is a spreading of power and consultation. It is a spreading throughout the community to those people who are involved in these activities of power to confer with the Government and to assist the Government in making its determinations. 
I would have thought that as the honourable senator was moving the motion he could have been a little more precise. He said that it is very expensive to establish all these commissions, that it will cost between $6m to $ 10m. It seems to me to be a very wide and broad spectrum of price range to refer to something costing between $6m to $10m. I would have thought that to be really effective the honourable senator should have been able to work out the figure a little more closely. I must confess that when I am given such a wide range of figures- from $6m to $10m- I for one am inclined to discredit the figures altogether. 
Now that I am dealing with the subject of arbitrary power, let me mention some of the changes that have been made to the uses of excessive and arbitrary power by this Government since it was elected. What could have been a more arbitrary and excessive use of power than the conscription of young men to go to Vietnam to be killed and to kill other people? What could be more arbitrary and excessive than that? Which government stopped doing that? It was the Australian Labor Party Government. Go to those people who would have been conscripted to fight in a war in which Australia had no business to be involved and say to them that there was not arbitrary and excessive power in the hands of the Government that wanted to send them to Vietnam and see what they say. Let honourable senators opposite tell them that they are labouring under a government whose power is so excessive and arbitrary that it will no longer send them to Vietnam because it has abolished the National Service Act. This Government has refused to conscript young men to serve in the armed forces. At the same time, it has improved the conditions of service in the armed forces so that we may attract men who will be prepared to volunteer for our armed Services, so that we will have a loyal and dedicated defence force within this country made up of people who joined it because they wished to join it, not because they were compelled to do so. 
Is it arbitrary and excessive power when a Government says that for the first time public servants will be able to speak publicly on matters relating to their departments, something which they could not do under the previous Government? Is that arbitrary or excessive power? Of course that is not arbitrary or excessive power. That is an extension of democracy. Is it the action of a dictatorship to say to the employees of the Government- the civil servants- that they are allowed to speak in public without being reprimanded or disciplined for doing so? Is it arbitrary or excessive power to amend the Crimes Act and the Immigration Act so that no longer naturalised Australian citizens will be eligible for deportation from this country? That is another one of the many things which this Government has done in the very short time that it has been in office. Could honourable senators opposite go to a new Australian who has been naturalised and say to him: 'Is not it a terrible, arbitrary and excessive power being exercised by this Government which has now passed a law which says that you can no longer be deported?' Of course, it is not arbitrary or excessive power. 
Is it an arbitrary or excessive power to introduce legislation such as the Trade Practices Bill in order to break down the power of economic monopolies and oligopolies which rule the economic life of the Australian people; to see that the people can participate in a private enterprise economy, which we still have, on a basis of some equality, or to remove a situation in which there is not government regulation but regulation by private monopolies about which the previous Government said it was going to do something but about which it did nothing? That is a limitation of the arbitrary and excessive power of those economic monopolies. Is it arbitrary and excessive power to introduce a Bill to outlaw racial discrimination in this country? Is that the action of a dictatorship? That is what this Government is doing. It will be interesting to see what the Opposition does about this. I assume that it would oppose any such Bill. 
Is it arbitrary and excessive power to introduce a Bill to provide for a charter of human rights for the Australian people? Of course that is not arbitrary or excessive power. It is not the action of a government which wants to exercise arbitrary or excessive power. Whatever criticisms there may be of individual provisions within that Bill, could anyone honestly say that a government which is dedicated to extending arbitrary and excessive power in its own hands would introduce such a Bill which guarantees the rights of the ordinary citizen within Australia? I certainly do not want to go on with this point. I believe that sufficient has been said to snow that  Senator Durack  has merely given us a repetition of what appeared in last month's leading articles in the 'West Australian' newspaper. Those of us who have the misfortune to rely on that newspaper have already read those articles. 
I do not believe that the time of the Senate should be wasted unduly on this matter. I think that the Australian Labor Party needs no debate and needs no argument because it has shown by its actions that it is extending power throughout all of the Australian community and is abolishing arbitrary and excessive power. It is not that  Senator Durack  and his friends are interested in opposing uses of arbitrary and excessive power; what they wish to do is to preserve the arbitrary and excessive power which, until now, has been in the hands of those people who control the economic wealth of this country. There has been no objection by them to the arbitrary and excessive power of the General Motors Corporation through its wholly owned subsidiary in Australia in increasing prices of automobiles. There has been no objection - 
-I direct a question to the Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence. It refers to regulation 29 of the Australian Military (Places of Detention) Regulations which provides for a No. 2 scale punishment diet. By way of explanation, I point out that a No. 2 scale punishment diet, which is provided for prisoners who are being held for various disciplinary offences, consists of the following daily meals: For breakfast, 170 grams of bread, 0.6 litres of porridge, and 15 grams of margarine or butter, with water; for supper in the evening, the same diet is provided; and for the main repast of the day, dinner, 170 grams of bread, 110 grams of meat, 225 grams of potatoes, and 55 grams of rice, and water. Does not the Minister regard this as cruel and inhuman treatment of Australian soldiers, and should the Government not do something to correct this most odious relic of barbaric times in the treatment of members of the military forces? 
I present the following petition from 5 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That support should be given to the growing world movement for the return of democracy to Chile. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should 
urge the Australian Government to make use of its office in Santiago to bring pressure to bear on the junta in power there for the immediate release of all political prisoners, and 
strongly urge that immediate approval be given to applications by these prisoners to migrate to Australia. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read, 
I have other documents containing a further 186 signatures indicating support for the subject matter of the petition. I ask for leave to have these documents attached to the petition. 
-Imove: 
That the following Address-in-Reply to the Speech of  Her  Majesty Queen Elizabeth II be agreed to: 
-Not only does  Senator McManus  say 'Hear, hear' to the motion, but also says 'Hear, hear' when I advocate a united Irish Republic. The Speech which  Her  Majesty made was an outline of the policies which the Australian Labor Party Government wishes to carry out during this session of the Parliament. It follows from the policies that were established by the Labor Party before it was elected on 2 December of last year and which it has carried out since its election. The policies of the Australian Labor Party and this Government are dependent upon and are integrally related to world peace. First of all we have a policy which is committed to the securing to world peace and friendly relations between this country and other countries. Secondly we know, as everyone should know, that the the carrying out of our domestic policies and of the reforms which we hope to institute within this country are just as dependent upon the maintenance of world peace as are any of our aims and our objectives in foreign policies. I believe that we need to look once again at the record of the Government in its relations with other countries and in its efforts for world peace and to look at what it is that we hope to do to attain further securing of world peace. 
Since this Government was elected it has taken certain major steps to see that we in Australia have sensible, logical and amicable relations with other countries. We have rejected the policy of the previous Government that the recognition of governments of foreign countries should be dependent upon our approval of the ideologies of those governments. The policy of the Australian Labor Party is that the effective governments of all countries should be recognised and that the effective governments of all countries should take their role in international assemblies such as the United Nations. For that reason, despite many years of opposition by the conservative parties in Australia, one of the first actions which we took upon election was to establish diplomatic relations with the People's Republic of China. This is a course which the Australian Labor Party has advocated since 1955 and which in the past has led to the Party being subjected to the most scurrilous accusations of disloyalty. But it is a course with which we persevered and which we have now brought to fruition by the establishment of diplomatic relations with the People 's Republic of China. 
We have shown in that policy that far from being out of step with world opinion we were leading world opinion. All other countries cither have taken or are in the process of taking precisely the same step which we took in recognising the People 's Republic of China in saying that the government of China was the government in Peking and not the government on an offshore island, and that if there was to be peace in our area and in the whole world, however much some may agree or disagree with the policies of the Chinese Government, we needed to have friendly relations with that country. For the same reason we have recognised the Government of North Vietnam- the Government of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam, the effective government of at least half of divided Vietnam. We have recognised the Government of the German Democratic Republic in East Germany, a sovereign government which has now entered into diplomatic relations with West Germany, a country with which we have had diplomatic relations for many years. 
Apart from these steps we have taken other positive measures to secure world peace. This Government, immediately after its election, withdrew Australian armed forces and military support for the war of aggression against the Vietnamese people. No longer can Australia be accused of engaging in any form of aggression in Indo-China. We have withdrawn our forces and we have established diplomatic relations with North Vietnam. One of the most horrible chapters in the whole of Australian history has been put to an end by this Government and put to an end by the Australian people, one of whose major reasons for voting for the Australian Labor Party was the realisation that for years they had been misled and that a completely incorrect and immoral course had been taken in regard to Vietnam. 
Despite the possibilities of a settlement in Indo-China, particularly in Vietnam, the problems are by no means finished. A conflict is still waging in Cambodia and the Australian Government believes that the best contribution it can make to the settlement of that conflict is not to intervene at all. Whatever may be the merits of the Government in Phnom Penh and the Government of Prince Sihanouk, Australia does not believe that we have any role in sending young Australians to fight and to be killed or maimed in a war which does not concern our people. What we intend to do, and what we have done, is to work within the United Nations, to work with our friends and with those countries with which we have diplomatic relations, to see that there is a secure peace in Vietnam and in Cambodia and in the whole of Indo-China. 
Apart from this there are many major international problems in which Australia can play perhaps only a marginal role in seeking a solution. Regarding the Middle East problem the Australian Government has said- with the support of the majority of the Australian people, I believe- that it will take up an even-handed position towards the Middle East conflict, that we shall not from the beginning as it were identify ourselves with either of the parties to this dispute. The Australian Labor Party has said very clearly in its federal policy- and this has been said very clearly also by members of the Government and by the Government itself- that there can be no settlement of the present crisis in the Middle East without, first, some justice being done to the Palestinian refugees. But, above all, there cannot be any settlement of the Middle East problem unless the Arab countries recognise that the state of Israel is a sovereign nation entitled to its sovereignty and to continued existence. I do not believe that there can be the slightest dispute that so long as spokesmen for certain Arab nations continue to say that their goal is the destruction of the state of Israel and the driving of the people of Israel into the sea we can expect that the Government of Israel, whichever government may be in power, or the people of Israel cannot do anything but take very strong and vigorous measures to preserve their independence. Only when the Arab countries recognise that Israel exists in its own right as a sovereign nation can there be peace in that area. Fortunately it does seem that at least some of the Arab nations have come to that realisation. Certainly, the Arab Republic of Egypt has done so, if not formally then informally by the negotiations between it and the Government of Israel. It appears at least to be moving in the direction of giving some recognition to the permanency and sovereignty of the state of Israel. 
It is much too late now to be arguing whether Israel ought to have been established in 1948, just as it is too late to argue whether Captain Phillip should have settled in New South Wales or the Pilgrim Fathers should have settled in Massachusetts. The fact is that Israel is established and that the majority of the people of Israel, whether bom there or not, were born since the establishment of the state of Israel, and it would be a most immoral and abominable thing if that nation were to be destroyed. That is not to say that the conduct of the Government of Israel on every issue has been perfect or that the Palestinian Arab people have not suffered many injustices and that there should not be strong efforts to secure some redress for the wrongs which doubtless they have suffered. 
It also has to be remembered when one considers the state of Israel that it is one of the very few democracies in the whole of the Middle East, although both Lebanon and Bahrain have quite strong democratic elements within them. But it is a most remarkable achievement that Israel, in the height of the present serious troubles in which it finds itself, was able to hold free democratic elections, or at least as free and democratic as any elections can be; that all parties were able to contest that election and that the group from the Israeli Communist Party which is very largely sympathetic with the Arabs won 4 seats in the Israeli Parliament. Right through the height of Israel's conflict with its, I would say, aggressive neighbours, it placed no bar on emigration from or migration to the State of Israel. I think that some countries which impose these bars on the immigration and emigration of their citizens and claim that there is some specially dangerous position in which they find themselves which forces them to impose these bars on the free egress and access of their citizens, ought to look at Israel which they criticise so much. There we find a country which, despite the horrible situation in which it found itself, allowed its citizens to move freely into and out of the borders of Israel. 
The role which we can play naturally is a limited one. One thing which we have to do, and which we have done, is to insist on all occasions that we are not prepared to see the destruction of Israel, and at the same time we are prepared to do what we can to work for justice to be done to the Palestinian Arabs, the former population, or descendants of the former population, of those areas which now constitute the State of Israel. 
Another major conflict, one in regard to which it seems probable that very little can be done by Australia, is the conflict which has developed between the People's Republic of China and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. This is a conflict which cannot be explained in most of the traditional terms used for explaining world conflict. Many of the features found in past conflicts are not to be found in the existing conflict between those 2 countries. However I think we have to recognise that in the case of China and in the case of the Soviet Union they are countries which, with whatever favourable aspects they may present, and indeed have presented, are dictatorships and that there are disputes as to which of them should have hegemony, if not throughout the whole world, at least in part of the world between the leaders of those 2 countries. Certainly I think it has to be said that a contributing factor- I would not suggest that it is a major factor because I think there are other more important factors involved over which we never did have any influence- involved in the present intransigence of the Soviet Union and China is the many years of isolation in which both countries were placed after their revolutions. I do not think it should be any wonder that both the Soviet Union and China should be extraordinarily suspicious countries, that both of them should be countries with which it is very hard for the other nations of the world to have sensible and sane dealings in view of the treatment which was meted out to both of them. Both of them suffered international boycotts, and both of them suffered intervention. 
We have heard only recently serious complaints about the use of resources diplomacy, as it has been called, by the Arab nations in endeavouring to cut off oil supplies from Western countries in order to strengthen their foreign policy as far as Israel is concerned. This has been deplored. But at the same time, that action has been very mild compared with the campaigns of economic boycotts and sanctions which were carried out for almost 2 decades against the Soviet Union and against the People's Republic of China, largely at the behest of the United States of America. If there is one country which should not be in a position to complain about resources diplomacy, or about boycotts or sanctions against other countries, it is the United States of America which in fact is still carrying on sanctions against its neighbour Cuba. By saying that, I am not saying that I believe that these are good policies. I believe they are both wrong, but I think that while we are looking at the situation of China and the Soviet Union we have to give some recognition to the historical reasons which have given rise to the difficulties which we now find in dealing with them and to see, insofar as we can, that these policies are not continued in the future because these are things to which the Australian Labor Party is opposed. It is our view that there ought to be recognition of the effective governments of all countries and that we ought to approach our trading relations and our diplomatic relations with other countries irrespective of ideology. 
To a large extent the major difficulties between the United States of America and the Soviet Union, and perhaps to a lesser extent between the United States of America and China, have been resolved as a result of some of the initiatives taken by the major powers. Certainly the expression 'detente', or relaxation, has become very widely used. Now it seems to be generally accepted that the U.S.A. and the Soviet Union, and on the other hand the U.S.A. and China, are taking all sorts of measures to prevent a conflict breaking out between those nations or any nations closely associated with them. Although on the one hand this certainly is something which is to be welcomed- only a most negative, destructive, homicidal if not suicidal person would be opposed to the relaxation of tensions between the Soviet Union and the U.S.A.- I believe at the same time that all democratic people need to have some thoughts for the future, and perhaps some fears, as to what might be the consequence of this type of detente. 
George Orwell, who quite often is quoted as one of the more prophetic writers of this century, is sometimes misquoted as being merely an anticommunist ideologist. He was not by any means merely an anti-communist ideologist. He was a left wing social democrat closely associated with the Independent Labor Party in Great Britain.  His  most famous book, '1984', was not merely an attack on the sort of future which could be created under some sort of Stalinist regime similar to that which was existing in the Soviet Union. If honourable senators remember' 1984', what he spoke of was a division of the world into 2 huge areas in each of which a dominant power was able to control the destinies and the lives of the people who were living under the suzerainty of those 2 super powers. I believe that while all of us welcome the relaxation in tension between the Soviet Union and the U.S.A., we should be very cautious lest a consequence of such a relaxation could be a division of spoils between 2 super powers with neither of which democratic people have a great deal in common. Although obviously the most serious and most disastrous thing that could happen to the world would be a third world war, particularly a nuclear war, at the same time it would be a rather grim prospect for the people of the world if the consequence of the relaxation were to mean that the Soviet Union was free to send its tanks into Czechoslovakia and the United States of America was free to send its marines into the Dominican Republic. We must see that while we support the relaxation between those 2 major powers- those 2 super powers- we do not fall into the weakness of saying: 'Well, everything is fixed up between these 2 countries and we will just leave it to them'. We have to see that we have our own independent policy, our own desire to assist our own people by an independent national policy, and that we work to see that there is no foreign intervention in any country either by the Soviet Union, the United States of America or anybody else. 
Both the Soviet Union and the United States have a rather dismal record over the past 20 years of interventions and invasions in other peoples' countries and of efforts to impose their form of economic system and their domination on other countries- the United States of America in South East Asia and Latin America, and the Soviet Union in Eastern Europe. To both is the Australian Labor Party and this Government opposed. When we look at the 2 major powers I believe that again we have reason for reservations as to what our future may be. The position in the U.S.A. at the present time is that a VicePresident, elected on a policy of law and order, now has not only lost his Vice-Presidency but has been disbarred from legal practice. We find that a number of senior ministers in the United States Government, a number of people very close to the Presidency, including, as  Senator Mulvihill  reminds me, the Attorney-General, the principal law enforcement officer of the United States, the holder of an office which has been held by some of the most distinguished men in Western history, are under indictment. At many levels of American life we find serious corruption. We find very great problems within that country despite its colossal wealth, and despite the disproportionate share of the world 's resources which it holds. We find the society of that country incapable of providing an adequate living, adequate housing, adequate social services and a decent way of life for many millions of its people. We find a steadily increasing rate of crime within that country. We find steadily increasing pollution and destruction of the environment despite all the wealth and the many admirable and desirable features in the United States- and there are many admirable and desirable features. 
The fact that there has been this free discussion about the alleged improprieties of  President  Nixon and the behaviour of  Mr Agnew, Mr Mitchell  and the others reflects very great credit on the United States. I do not in any way attempt to deprecate that. I believe that there are many positive things to be learnt from the United States. Despite the fact that I am strongly critical of America in many ways, I certainly hope that I do not give the impression of being antiAmerican. There are many features about the United States which, in some respects, to any democratic person make it one of the most attractive countries in the whole world. But having said that I point out that there are still very great, major weaknesses, growing weaknesses and an increasing breakdown of law enforcement in that country. This breakdown applies not only to law enforcement but also to respect for the law and respect for the rights of other people. This is reflected in the growing homicide rate. These are reflections of a society. These are not just accidents. There could be many twists and turns in future American history. Some of them could be very dangerous to the whole world. We have to bear that in mind. 
At the same time, when we come to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics there cannot be any question but that the position of the ordinary person in the Soviet Union is much better than it was under the Czars. But what a terrible price has been paid to create that situation. Unlike Israel, Russia is a country where citizens are not allowed to freely come and go. There is no freedom of assembly or freedom of speech. Certainly, the party which corresponds to the Australian Labor Party is illegal. It is illegal not only in the Soviet Union but also in those countries where the supporters and friends of the Soviet Union exert dominance. Such countries are East Germany- a country for which in many other respects I have a high regard- Hungary, Czechoslovakia, Rumania and Bulgaria. These are countries with long social democratic traditions. But our fraternal party is illegal in those countries. I think that something which has always to be borne in mind by members of the Australian Labor Party is that however friendly we may be with many of the countries associated with the Soviet Union, our counterparts in those countries are in gaol or have been executed. Our corresponding party, the Social Democratic Party, in Hungary, Czechoslovakia and other countries of Eastern Europe, is an illegal party. 
At the same time we find that it is now almost 57 years since the Russian revolution. I do not want to deprecate in any way the tremendous sacrifices which have been made, the tremendous injustices and the tremendous loss of life and devastation which was suffered by the people of the Soviet Union during the second World War. It has hardly been equalled anywhere else in the world. But it is still a very long time since that war ceased. I cannot see how anybody can justify the position- I do not mention it only because it is fashionable but because it is something which has happened recently- where a man is not able to write and have books published in the country in which he lives and where he can have the citizenship of the country in which he was born cancelled, not by a court process but by executive action. This is something to which any democrat must be opposed. I think that the Australian Labor Party is entitled to oppose this because we take a consistent position on such matters. Not only are we opposed to what happened to Solzhenitsyn but also we are opposed to what was done in this country when a passport was denied to an Australian citizen, Wilfred Burchett. We are opposed to that. 
I would be interested to hear from some of the people in this Parliament who so often in the past have spoken of the persecution of the Church. What have they to say about what is happening in Spain at the present time, when the Catholic Bishop of Bilbao is about to suffer precisely the same treatment as that meted out to Solzhenitsyn. The Bishop is about to be expelled from his own country. So far I have not heard any protest from some of those people- including people who belong to the same church as the Catholic Bishop of Bilbao- who have so rightly been vocal about what happened to Solzhenitsyn protesting about the Catholic Bishop who is being expelled from Spain. But I believe that those people who accept the dictatorship in Spain, who accept the genocide in Vietnam, who accept American intervention in Cuba and Dominica, and who are happy about the coups d'etat and the military juntas in Greece and Chile have no right to protest about civil liberties in the Soviet Union. I believe they show only hypocrisy when they talk about Solzhenitsyn but have not a word to say about the treatment of the African National Congress in South Africa, the South African Congress of Trade Unions or about the Socialist Party or Christian Democrats in Spain or about Wilfred Burchett. In fact, they even want to pursue their vendettas years later. They are not entitled to talk about civil liberties because they have disqualified themselves; so too it is impossible for any of us to say that we support civil liberties in Chile, South Africa, Rhodesia or Greece unless we also say that we are uniform in our support of civil liberties. 
I think that this is one of the most inexplicable things which has been done by the Soviet Union. It almost seems as if we are being given living evidence of the Orwellian prophecy about the division of the world into 2 major power blocs in which leading power juntas in each of those power blocs does not care about what happens in the other. What has been one of the effects of the 
Soviet action in relation to Solzhenitsyn? It has placed in jeopardy the future of the Italian Communist Party. People are now asking the Italian Communist Party- in many respects a very reasonable, sensible and national Communist Party- whether, if elected, it would ban writers and books in the same way as its Soviet friends. This action of the Soviet Union has placed in jeopardy the very painfully and carefully constructed alliance between the Socialist Party, the Communist Party and the left wing radicals in France which showed very great prospects of defeating the conservative Government which has been in power for many years. Now the Democratic Socialists in France are forced to ask the Communists: 'What is your position on Solzhenitsyn? Are you in favour of what the Soviet Government has done? In which case, will you deal with French newspapers and French writers in the same way as the Soviet Government has? Are you opposed to it? If you are opposed to it, say that you are opposed to it.' These are some of the absurdities which have resulted from the policy which the Soviet Government has adopted. 
We in the Australian Labor Party reject the actions which have been taken by the Soviet Government. We oppose the actions which have been taken by anybody who has suppressed freedom and who has engaged in war against smaller countries. Ours is a difficult path. It is the Democratic Socialist path. It is a hard one. It is not an easy one but knowing that it is hard and knowing that it is difficult these are the policies which the Australian Labor Party supports. These are the policies which this Government intends to carry out. 
I wish to speak only very briefly on this matter. When I moved this motion of loyalty on behalf of all honourable senators I expected that there would be unanimity. As one who was quite insistent that there be no Australian Labor Party propaganda included in the message which we were conveying to  Her  Majesty when we expressed pleasure at her visit and at the visit of her husband  His  Royal Highness the Prince Philip I am very distressed at what has happened. I deliberately eschewed any Party propaganda. I find it an affront that one should endeavour to include a political brochure in our address to our Sovereign and her gracious husband. For that reason I trust that this motion will be defeated. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. How much money was provided by the Federal Government for special works projects conducted by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in Western Australia during 1972-7? How many major projects in Western Australia were funded during that period? How many applications have been received by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs for financial assistance during the current year? What effect on the conditions of the Aboriginal population of Western Australia has resulted from this assistance? 
Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I do not wish to inconvenience  Senator Reid.  I am sure that I will speak only briefly, and he can deal with the subject which has aroused his attention.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  as an acute and impartial observer, I think you will agree with me and will have noticed the rather extraordinary state of affairs which existed in the 
Senate tonight. Until the arrival of  Senator Davidson  and the brief appearance of  Senator Sim,  who is about to leave us, no members of the Liberal Party of Australia sat in the chamber because they were so embarrassed by their association with the other 4 political parties with which they are associated in Opposition. Although only 5 Opposition senators were present, between them they represented 4 political parties- the Australian Country Party, the Australian Democratic Labor Party, the National Alliance and the National Liberal Party. I can well imagine the DLP, the National Alliance and the National Liberal Party being very interested to learn of the highly satisfactory financial arrangements which the Country Party had been able to build up over the years possibly as part of its deal with an insurance company. I would be interested to learn from  Senator McManus  whether he is any better informed on some of the matters which we heard about tonight relating to the National Alliance than he is with regard to some of the other matters relating to the National Alliance. 
I am just wondering whether  Senator McManus  knows any more about this matter which affects the National Alliance than he does about some of the other matters affecting it. 
A very serious matter had been raised by  Senator Poyser  on a previous occasion.  Senator Webster  had what I can regard only as the effrontery tonight to say that some cowardice was shown by  Senator Poyser  because he would not repeat outside allegations made about a company, this amorphous mass, this public company which is incorporated in Victoria.  Senator Webster  has led us to believe that when something critical or perhaps defamatory had been said about some person or company, a man of honour and of courage, when challenged, would have no hesitation in repeating his allegations outside. I assume from that statement that despite his previous practice  Senator Webster  will now do precisely the same. One can remember that only a few months ago  Senator Webster  made some highly damaging and slanderous allegations about a member of the Australian Labor Party in the Northern Territory. He was challenged to repeat those allegations outside the Senate. He graciously declined to do so. In view of his statement of principle tonight that when challenged one repeats the remarks outside, I am sure that first thing tomorrow we can expect  Senator Webster  to repeat verbatim outside the Senate those previously made remarks about the member of the ALP in the Northern Territory. I am sure that he will report to us what he has done about the matter because he feels so strongly about it. If he would like me to arrange a Press conference at which he could repeat those allegations, I will do so. 
The matter which has been raised by  Senator Poyser  is a serious matter. It is a serious matter for 3 reasons. Firstly, it concerns the operations of a public company which is incorporated under public law and which purports to be an ordinary public limited liability company engaging in insurance whereas, according to  Senator Poyser's  evidence, which has been well verified by what he has been able to show to the Senate, it is not so engaged. The second question of importance is the relation between this big financial institution, which is connected with other major financial institutions through the Employers Federation (Victorian), through an underhand arrangement with a specific political party- the declining Country Party. If Federation Insurance Ltd is losing money- I do not know whether it is- and if it banks its future on the Country Party, it will lose a lot more money. The third question, which is an important question, is the question of victimisation of an employee of this company because he exercised his democratic right to be a member of the Labor Party and to be an ALP candidate for Parliament. 
I wish to deal with the third of those matters first. Victimisation is something which the Australian Labor Party and the trade union movement in Australia- indeed, the trade union movement throughout the world- have had to fight since their very inception. Because the Labor Party has not represented the owners of capital and has not represented the employers, people who wish to join the Party and who wish to be active in the Labor movement and the trade union movement have constantly been subjected to the fear of intimidation through their employment by their employers who, almost to a man, are opposed to the principles of the Labor movement to which their employees belong. I think it is salutory that the attention of the Senate and the Australian people ought to be drawn to the wretched little company called Federation Insurance Ltd which has continued the same policy of intimidation as was used to try to break the trade union movement and the Labor movement from its very beginning. I hope that everybody who supports the Labor Party and everybody who supports democracy will have a look at Federation Insurance Ltd and see that it is the type of organisation which, no doubt while it pays money to people who prate about democracy and freedom of speech, is prepared to deny a man and his family their livelihood because the man belongs to a legal political organisation and wishes to exercise his democratic rights as a candidate for Parliament. Let us have a look at Federation Insurance Ltd and see what sort of company it is. If I were  Senator Reid  I would have another look at the Western Australian election figures before I laughed because I think that any laughing he will be doing after 18 May will be done a long way from Canberra. 
The second point I wish to make, which is a very important point, concerns the relationship between a public company and a political party. We have seen repeatedly in the past in this chamber and elsewhere allegations that there is something wrong with the Australian Labor Party because it has affiliated with the trade unions. It has been said that there is something improper about its having affiliated organisations which may influence its policies. We are not ashamed of that. We are proud of our relationship with the trade union movement. Our relationship with the trade union movement is an open constitutional relationship and the decisions which are made by the Australian Labor Party, in association with the trade union movement, are publicly known arrangements made at conferences which are open to the Press and the public. 
Is there the same relationship between Federation Insurance Ltd and the Australian Country Party? That company has contributed some $125,000 to the Country Party in Victoria alone over the past 3 years. Is that an open arrangement? Of course it is not an open arrangement. But for the service that  Senator Poyser  has done by alerting the Senate to the underhand relationship between that insurance company and that political party the people of Australia would not be aware of it because it was an agreement which was to be kept secret. What sort of influence does Federation Insurance Ltd exercise over the Country Party? Of course, a miserable little organisation like the Country Party in Victoria which is groping and straining to form a national alliance with the Australian Democratic Labor Party and which has no doubt made some approach to the National Liberal Party but which may have been spurned by a man of  Senator Hannan  's integrity - 
-Of course.  Senator McManus  changed his Party when he left the 
Australian Labor Party.  Senator McManus  would be an expert on the changing of parties. He would be an authority on that subject. In fact,  Senator McManus  not only changed his party but also left the party which had kept him for years before he left it. 
I am not hurt either. 
I thought you wanted to raise the subject. Why not talk it over with Vince? 
-And you and Vince Gair were in the Labor Party. I would like to say to  Senator McManus  that  Mr Hartley  and I, when we were some 30 or 40 years younger than  Senator McManus  was at the time that he made his change, were members of the Liberal Party and then became members of the Labor Party. We are still good friends. In the same way  Senator McManus  and  Senator Gair  were both members of the Australian Labor Party and left it to join the Democratic Labor Party. I only wonder whether it could be said that they are still good friends. I do not want to waste my time on  Senator McManus.  I know that tonight he is in a highly neurasthenic condition. I would not be at all surprised to learn that it has been a very bad day for  Senator McManus.  I am afraid that more and more bad days will follow. 
If  Senator McManus  is going all right he must have very low expectations. The other major matter is the question that arises in relation to contributions which have been made by public companies generally to political parties. 
-Senator Webster has said that various margarine organisations have given money to the Australian Labor Party. Whether they have or have not I do not know. I am prepared to accept that they have. A number of large business institutions have made substantial donations to the Labor Party. I am well aware of that. I do not deny that. But we do say this- and we say it without any fear of contradictionthat the donations that have been made to the Australian Labor Party by any large financial institution, whether it is the Myer Emporium or anybody else, are infinitesimal when compared with the donations that have been made to the Liberal Party, the Australian Country Party, the Australian Democratic Labor Party and the National Alliance. As yet I cannot speak about the National Liberal Party. Of course donations have been made. Of course much larger donations have been made to the four or five Opposition parties sitting facing us, or at least four of the five Opposition parties sitting facing us. But we are not embarrassed about this. 
We have a proposal coming before the Parliament that all such donations should be revealed. I welcome the interjections from  Senator McManus  and the contribution, if such it can be called, from  Senator Webster  that they find it very abhorrent that these donations should be made. If that is the case then I do not have the slightest doubt that if they show the same sincerity in their Party as was shown by their previous Leader they will support the Labor Party proposal that all these contributions should be made public. I will be interested to see whether they do support the proposal. If they do not then their noise tonight about margarine, Myer or whoever else it may have been can be revealed as sheer hypocricy. We do not want to hide any donations. We want to see all donations given to all political parties made public. That is our policy. That is what we want to see. Whether the four or five political parties sitting opposite are prepared to agree to that I do not know. I think the Parliament should welcome the contribution  Senator Poyser  has made. Nothing that has been said by  Senator Webster  tonight in any way rebuts any one of the many points which have been made.  Senator Webster  revealed the relationship between Federation Insurance Limited and the Australian Country Party. He revealed the intimidation and the discrimination practised by Federation Insurance Limited against one of its employees who is a member of the Australian Labor Party. The facts speak for themselves. When revealed to the Australian people they will make their judgment accordingly. 
-Yes. In this morning's issue of the 'Australian', an article appears which refers to events which took place yesterday in the Senate and the production by you,  Mr President,  of a letter written to you by  Mr Gair.  A paragraph which appears in the article reads as follows: 
The letter, which was written with the advice of  Senator Murphy, Senator Wheeldon  ALP, WA also a lawyer and officials of the Attorney-General's Department scrupulously avoided notifying a resignation, saying instead that he had vacated his seat. 
At no stage did I act as  Mr Gair's  adviser in a professional or in any other capacity. I had no knowledge of the letter until you,  Mr President,  read it to the Senate, nor did I know that the letter was being written. At no stage did the incompetent who wrote this article ask me whether I had any relationship with this matter. I had no relationship with this matter and I hope that the Senate will take note of that fact. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Repatriation. How much would be lost by ex-servicemen and their dependants receiving repatriation pensions if expenditure on these pensions were to be cut in the way that  Mr Snedden  's so-called economic package would require? 

I table the report of the inquiry into national compensation and rehabilitation. I seek leave to make a statement. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
As honourable senators are aware, this inquiry was commissioned by the Government early in 1973 to inquire into and report on the scope and form of and the manner of instituting and administering a national rehabilitation and compensation scheme appropriate to Australia for the purpose of rehabilitating and compensating every person who, at any time, suffers a personal injury, whether the injury be sustained on the roads, at work or elsewhere.  Mr Justice  A. O. Woodhouse, D.S.C., of the New Zealand Court of Appeal, was  Chairman  of the Inquiry and we are indebted to the Government of New Zealand which so freely made his services available.  Mr Justice  C. L. D. Meares, Justice of the Supreme Court of New South Wales, and the  Chairman  of the New South Wales Law reform Commission, was the other member of the inquiry and I should like to place on record the Australian Government's appreciation of the action of the New South Wales Government in making him available for this task. 
In February 1974, the Government extended the terms of reference of the Inquiry to include consideration in respect of persons who suffer physical or mental incapacity or deformity by reason of sickness or congenital defect. The report I now table was presented to the Prime Minister on Thursday, 27 June. It covers the compensation aspects of the Inquiry's findings. A separate report on rehabilitation and safety will be presented soon. 
The recommendations of the Committee are far-reaching and would have wide impact on the Australian community. I welcome them as a further major contribution to the fulfilment of the intention of the Government, and the Australian Labor Party as a whole, to make an appropriate national compensation and rehabilitation scheme available to all Australians. The report is well considered and offers some challenging criticism of existing systems and practices in this field. They warrant close consideration and thought. 
Honourable senators will notice that the report, and the draft Bill contained in the appendix to the report, both refer to the publication Guide to the Evaluation of Permanent Impairment' published by the American Medical Association. For the convenience of honourable senators, copies of this publication have been placed in the Parliamentary Library, where they are available for perusal. The Government will examine the report closely in furtherance of its intention to institute a national compensation and rehabilitation scheme in Australia as soon as this is practicable. 
As the report covers many important issues, possibly affecting every person in Australia, arrangements have been made for it to be widely available. It is hoped that copies will be on sale through the Australian Government Publishing Service in about a fortnight's time. I commend the report for the consideration of honourable senators. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill before the Senate is one of the 2 principal Bills which will govern the new Australian health insurance program. This Bill, together with the Health Insurance Bill, has been passed previously by the House of Representatives on 2 separate occasions but each time these Bills have been rejected by the Senate. This Bill establishes a Health Insurance Commission as a statutory authority to plan and establish an organisation to administer the new Australian health insurance program. 
The Health Insurance Commission Bill is being re-introduced in the identical form to which it was previously placed before honourable senators. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Guilfoyle)  adjourned. 
-Yes, by coincidence, I can answer that question. Most of the administrative problems which prevented the payment of repatriation pensions into savings accounts of credit unions earlier have now been overcome. Before it was possible to do this it was necessary that satisfactory computer services be available in the offices of the Repatriation Commission in the various States. These arrangements have now been completed or almost completed, and it is hoped that the first payments will be made as from 1 November next. 
In the period from I July 1973 to 5 May 1974 a total of 2,548 civilians were admitted to repatriation hospitals. Included in that number were some non-entitled exservicemen. When the policy of admitting nonentitled ex-servicemen and civilian patients to repatriation hospitals was introduced, efforts were made to see that priority would be given to exservicemen and their dependants, the people for whom the Repatriation Commission has statutory responsibility, so far as the provision of bed space is concerned. The admission of civilian patients to repatriation hospitals has not excluded any entitled ex-serviceman from obtaining treatment in such hospitals. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill now before the Senate is one of 2 Bills - the other being the Health Insurance Commission Bill- which comprise the principal legislation to enable implementation of a new Australian health insurance program to replace the present inadequate voluntary health insurance scheme. Honourable senators will be aware that this Bill has been passed by the House of Representatives on two previous occasions only to be rejected in the Senate and is one of the 6 Bills which were the subject of the double dissolution of the previous Parliament. It is the Government's firm commitment to put an end to the present notoriously inequitable and inefficient arrangements for providing individuals with protection against the costs of medical and hospital services by introducing a health insurance program based on the principles of social equity, universal coverage and efficiency. The people of Australia have endorsed the objectives of such a program at two consecutive elections. 
On its election in December 1 972, the Government established a Health Insurance Planning Committee to develop in detail the proposals which had received such solid community support prior to and during that election campaign. This Committee reported in April 1973 and when presenting its report the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  stressed that for the first time, the people were to be given the opportunity fully to consider action proposed by a government well in advance of any plans for implementation. Over 6 months of intense public debate followed, during which the Government listened. Serious misrepresentation of the proposals was attempted by some organisations and groups with vested interests in preserving a system which perpetrated basic social injustices upon the community. Nevertheless much of the debate provided rational, responsible and useful comment and criticism. In November 1973 the Government, after carefully considering both the Health Insurance Planning Committee's recommendations and comment by individual and interested groups, published a White Paper which set out the Government's health insurance program. I repeat that the Bill now before the Senate is the principal legislation to give effect to that program. 
When this Bill was originally introduced the second reading speech detailed each facet of the proposals contained in the Bill. It is not my intention now to take up the time of honourable senators by repeating these details. However, I would reiterate that the Bill provides for payments for medical benefits, hospital services and certain other specific services. In relation to medical benefits, all persons in Australia will be entitled to receive medical benefits which will cover at least 85 per cent of the fee charged for the service, where doctors adhere to the scheduled fees. In no case will a patient be required to pay more than $5 for any individual service, again providing that the scheduled fees are charged. I emphasise that patients will be completely free to choose the doctor in private practice they wish to have treat them and that the doctor/patient relationships which at present apply, will be preserved. I wish also to emphasise, since it has been the subject of considerable misrepresentation, that medical benefits will continue to be paid on the basis of fee for service to doctors in private practice. 
Pensioners at present eligible for general practitioner services under the pensioner medical service will have their eligibility extended to a full range of medical services, including specialist services, which are not covered under present pensioner medical service arrangements. Basically there are three convenient methods provided in the Bill for the claiming of benefits. In brief, the methods by which patients may receive their entitlements are: 
Be billed by the doctor, pay the doctor and then claim benefits from the Health Insurance Commission. 
Forward the unpaid doctor's bill to the Health Insurance Commission and receive back the appropriate benefits in the form of a cheque payable to the doctor. In this case it would be the patient's responsibility to forward the cheque to the doctor and the balance of the account would be a matter between the doctor and the patient 
Assign to the doctor the benefits payable for a particular service where the doctor is prepared to accept the benefit as full payment for the service. The doctor would then claim his payment from the Health Insurance Commission and the patient would not have to pay anything. 
The assignment of benefits will have particular significance for pensioners who have pensioner medical service cards. The Bill requires the Minister to request doctors to undertake that where medical services are provided to persons who present to the doctor a pensioner medical service card, the doctor should give these pensioners an opportunity of assigning their benefits to the doctor instead of receiving a doctor's account. The effect of assigning benefits will be that the doctors accept the benefits as full payment for the services they provide to eligible pensioners. 
With regard to hospital services the Bill provides for the Australian and State governments to enter into cost sharing agreements to enable patients in all approved hospitals to receive completely free accommodation and treatment in standard beds. The agreements are to be in accordance with the Heads of Agreement contained in Schedule 2 of the Health Insurance Bill. The Bill provides that the Australian Government will make a payment at the rate of $16 per occupied bed day in respect of all patients in all approved hospitals irrespective of whether they are public hospitals or private hospitals. This is a substantial increase on the $2 a day payments made in respect of insured patients under the present arrangements. 
Patients admitted to public hospitals will be able to choose free standard bed treatment or private patient treatment. Patients in standard beds will receive medical services provided by doctors remunerated on a salaried, sessional, or contract basis. Private patients will be under the care of doctors of their own choice and the fees charged by these doctors will attract medical benefits under the program as will medical fees incurred by private hospital patients. While private patients will be charged fees for hospital treatment, the levels of these fees will be substantially lower than at present reflecting the significant additional Australian Government payments to hospitals. Patients seeking treatment as private patients in public hospitals or in private hospitals will be able to insure privately against the accommodation fees charged and private health insurance contributions will be allowable taxation concessional deductions. 
The Health Insurance Bill also makes provision for special arrangements to be entered into with private religious, charitable and community hospitals, to enable such hospitals to choose, if they wish, to accommodate and treat patients free of charge. Participation on such special arrangements would be entirely at the discretion of the hospital concerned, and the hospital management would retain absolute autonomy in its operations, including in such matters as admission and treatment policies, and numbers of patients admitted. The Health Insurance Bill provides for the payment by the Australian Government of a supplementary bed payment to hospitals entering into these arrangements. All payments authorised by the Bill now before the Senate will be made from the Health Insurance Fund established under Part VI of the 
Health Insurance Bill and will be paid by the Health Insurance Commission. 
The Government recognises that the successful operation of its program is dependent upon the co-operation of the medical profession, State governments and their hospital authorities and private hospitals. I wish to assure honourable senators that it is the Government's desire that co-operation and mutual understanding be achieved. To this end I know that the Minister for Social Security would be happy to respond to proposals for discussions on the program with representatives of these bodies. As honourable senators will recall, on the 2 previous occasions when the Health Insurance Bill was introduced into the Senate, it was stated that it was one of a number of Bills which, together, would provide the legislative framework to authorise the complete implementation of the Australian health insurance program. Further Bills relating to the program will be introduced during these sittings. Honourable senators are already aware that Bills to authorise the health insurance levy will be introduced by my colleague,  Senator Wriedt,  representing the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  and I shall be introducing again the Health Insurance Commission Bill. 
Once the Health Insurance Bill becomes operative and payments for medical and hospital services are being made under those provisions, it will be necessary to avoid the duplication which would be involved if payments were also made for these services under the provisions of the National Health Act. Consequently, it is proposed that, except for services received before the commencement of the new program, no further benefits under the National Health Act will be paid. Steps will be taken to ensure that no patient is disadvantaged over the period of transition from the National Health Act to the Health Insurance Act. So that the legislation on the statute books expresses the intentions of Parliament clearly, it is proposed to introduce the National Health Bill repealing those redundant provisions relating to the payment of medical and hospital benefits under the National Health Act and terminating the pensioner medical service arrangements which will no longer be needed. 
The National Health Bill will also provide for:  the cessation of payments of medical and hospital fund benefits by providing for registered health insurance organisations to cease carrying on health insurance business under the National Health Act. ( In future the operations of private health insurance organisations will be supervised under the provisions of special legislation to which I shall refer shortly.) the repeal of those parts of the National Health Act governing the operation of the existing health insurance scheme after all rights and obligations have been satisfied the extension of the additional Commonwealth benefits payable in respect of nursing home patients with pensioner medical service entitlement to all nursing home patients and the consequential elimination of the payment of nursing home fund benefits the Minister to direct the Health Insurance Commission to operate a medical and /or hospital benefits fund in a State or Territory where this is necessary for the protection of the benefits entitlements of contributors. 
Honourable senators have been informed previously that it is the Government's intention to introduce legislation relating to the scope and operation of private health insurance business under its program. This legislation is being prepared at present and, if it is available, will be introduced during these sittings. In the event that this is not possible I assure the Senate that it will be introduced during the forthcoming Budget sittings. I am able to foreshadow briefly for honourable senators that private health insurance organisations will be able to offer insurance coverage against the fees, firstly, for treatment in public and private hospitals; secondly, for medical services to the extent of the difference between the fees in Schedule 1 of the Health Insurance Bill and the medical benefits payable; and, thirdly, for an unrestricted range of ancillary health services. Organisations wishing to conduct private health insurance business will be required to obtain authorisation from the Minister for Social Security. The health insurance operations of authorised organisations will be subject to the Minister's supervision. The administrative arrangements relating to authorisation and supervision will be broadly along the lines of those in the present National Health Act. However, to provide additional protection to the contributor, provisions will be made for a court to appoint a judicial manager where in its view an organisation is not being properly managed, and there will also be provisions to enable an organisation's health insurance operations to be wound-up by a court where this becomes necessary. 
The Health Insurance Bill is the principal legislation for a program which will give universal and comprehensive protection against health costs. People will bear the cost of the program according to their ability to pay, reversing the present situation in which the less fortunate pay most for their health services. The great gaps in coverage inevitable in the present arrangements will be closed. The money spent by the community on health care will be efficiently pooled and distributed, eliminating the wasteful practices inherent in the existing system. Certainty of access to comprehensive health care without fear of the financial consequences will become a right for every Australian. The Australian health insurance program, together with other initiatives taken by the Government in the field of health care financing and delivery, represents a concerted, planned approach to this vital social issue- an approach combining efficiency with social equity. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Guilfoyle)  adjourned. 
-This matter was dealt with in the White Paper which was presented by the Government to the last Parliament. The White Paper indicated that single repatriation beneficiaries and war widows entitled to full repatriation treatment benefits would be totally exempted from the levy and that other beneficiaries who were entitled to full treatment benefits for themselves but not for their dependants would be exempted from 50 per cent of the levy. Bills introduced by the Treasurer in another place on 10 July make provision for these matters. 
In substance I think that what  Senator Wright  has said as to the recommendations of the report of the committee presided over by  Mr Justice  Woodhouse is correct. Naturally the recommendations in the Woodhouse Committee report and the recommendations from the inquiry by  Mr Justice  Toose into repatriation will overlap in many important respects and ultimately it will be essential for the Government and the Parliament to compare the 2 reports before there can be a satisfactory determination of the future of repatriation benefits. The inquiry by  Mr Justice  Toose is almost completed. 
As  Senator Wright  knows, a very thorough and a very searching inquiry into the whole of the existing repatriation structure has been undertaken by  Mr Justice  Toose. It is to be hoped that the report will be complete within a few months. The report by  Mr Justice  Toose will be tabled in Parliament immediately it is complete. The only thing I would say is that while both the report by  Mr Justice  Toose and the report by  Mr Justice  Woodhouse and  Mr Justice  Meares have been commissioned by the Government they are not necessarily the policy of the Government, although legislation is obviously envisaged in the field of a national compensation scheme and obviously consideration has been given to making more satisfactory in some respects the present repatriation scheme. But it does not necessarily follow that what is recommended by either of these inquiries will be adopted by the Government. Certainly it is intended by the Government that there will be the maximum opportunity for public discussion and public debate on the recommendations in both reports before any legislation is introduced into this Parliament. 
-Yes. The Government determined that as from September 1973 artificial limbs should be provided free of charge to all persons in the community who are in need of them, and the Department of Repatriation and subsequently the Department of Repatriation and Compensation have been providing artificial limbs on that basis. However, as one would probably have expected, the demand in the beginning for artificial limbs from people not entitled to repatriation benefits was extremely great and exceeded the combined production of the Repatriation Artificial Limb and Appliance Centre and commercial artificial limb makers. However, the backlog is being overtaken and the Department is making every endeavour to see that every person in the community who needs an appliance of this kind will receive it from the Department of Repatriation and Compensation. 
I should be delighted to enter into a discussion of these matters with  Senator Baume.  The only thing that stops me from doing so is that I have not the slightest idea what he is talking about. If he puts the question on notice I shall see that he obtains an answer at the earliest possible opportunity. 
In the past  Senator Mulvihill  has asked a number of questions on this and similar matters. It is a serious matter because obviously policemen who are at present on duty in Cyprus are subject to the same sort of hazards as those to which members of the defence forces would be subject when doing similar duties. I must confess that I am not aware of all the problems involved or of the benefits which are available to members of police forces as part of their entitlements as members of those police forces. However, I shall make inquiries and as soon as I am in a position to give a thorough answer to the question asked by  Senator Mulvihill  I shall do so. 
-No doubt the Senate will not be very surprised to learn that I do not know the answer to that question. But if the honourable senator will put it on notice I will ensure that an answer is obtained for him. 
-The War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunals began recording their reasons and making available the reasons for their decisions as from 1 June 1974. It is proposed that other determining authorities acting within the framework of the Repatriation Act also should give the reasons for their decisions. The Government believes it is desirable that people whose applications for repatriation benefits have been rejected should know why the tribunal has rejected their applications. The Repatriation Commission is at the moment evolving arrangements so that all of the other tribunals and determining authorities under the Repatriation Act will also be giving the reasons for their determinations in the same way as is already being done by the War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunals. 
-Yes, my attention has been drawn to this. It seems to be a rather curious criticism that has been offered. In fact, what the Government has done in regard to the increase in the eligibility of persons who may receive repatriation benefits has been to provide that members of the defence forces serving in time of peace are now entitled to the same benefits as those available to ex-servicemen who served in non-combat areas in time of war. But the benefits which are available have not been diminished in any way. On the contrary, what the Government has done is to extend the range of benefits to members of the defence forces serving in peace time. It seems to be very strange indeed that there should have been the criticisms which apparently there have been of this extension of repatriation benefits by the Government. 
-This seems to me to be a matter which ought to be answered by the Minister for Social Security himself. I ask the honourable senator to place the question on the notice paper. 
-I am afraid that offhand I cannot answer the question but I shall obtain the information for the honourable senator and see that it is provided for her. 
I shall certainly convey the honourable senator's question to the Minister. It seems reasonable that the proposition should be at least considered by the Government. 
-Certainly, wherever I was going I would be only too delighted to ask the resident senator in the district to accompany me. But apart from that social occasion, I state that the Government does intend to continue the policy of making the facilities of the Concord Repatriation Hospital available to victims of accidents in the surrounding areas. In fact, proposals are now being implemented to expand the casualty clinic at the Repatriation General Hospital at Concord. It is hoped that the new casualty clinic will be working by the beginning of next year. 
I am aware that at the present time fees do vary in the different States and Territories. This is the result of the recommendations of the Medical Fees Tribunal which was set up under  Mr Justice  Ludeke. That Tribunal was constituted by the Government to recommend appropriate fees, and the Tribunal 's recommendations were to the effect which has been outlined by  Senator Marriott.  The Government felt that having constituted a tribunal of this kind, it was under some obligation to carry out the recommendations of the Tribunal on the matters which had been presented to it. I do not know what precise reasons  Mr Justice  Ludeke had for bringing down the decisions which he did, but I shall refer that part of the question to the Minister for Social Security in an effort to obtain the report of  Mr Justice  Ludeke so that  Senator Marriott  can study it. The Australian Medical Association was advised of the changes of fees in May 1 974 and the new fees came into force, as  Senator Marriott  has said, in June 1974 but were made retrospective to 1 January 1974. 
The fees were in fact increased and although, due to administrative requirements in the implementing of the Tribunal's findings the increased fees could not be paid until June 1974, certainly no doctor was disadvantaged because payment of the higher fees were made retrospective to 1 January. As for the reasons for the Tribunal making the decision, I shall endeavour to obtain from my colleague a statement of the reasons and allow  Senator Marriott  to have it. 
I ask the honourable senator to put the question on notice. 
I am sure that all of us would agree with the honourable senator that it would be to everyone's advantage if the Committee were to function more efficiently, frequently and hopefully. I am afraid that I am not really aware of what happened to the minutes of the first meeting or why the Committee did not meet on the second occasion. But I will ask my colleague, the Minister for Social Security, to let the honourable senator have an answer to his interesting questions in due course. 
in reply- I did not agree with a great deal that  Senator Hall  had to say tonight. But there was one thing with which none of us could really disagree and that is that what is going on tonight is largely a symbolic discussion. We all know very well where we stand, whether we be new senators, old senators or middle-aged senators. 
I was not suggesting that the honourable senator was old. I would classify the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  as middle-aged. We have all heard the debate. It has been going on since 1968 when this proposal was first included in the policy of the Australian Labor Party. We debated it during the 1969 election campaign when we were defeated and the Liberal and Country Parties were re-elected. It was debated in 1 972 when we were elected. The people of Australia knew what it was that we were putting to them in that election. The matter was debated from the end of 1972 through to May 1974 when another election was held. The people of Australia knew very clearly what Labor was putting to them. They voted overwhelmingly for the policies of the ALP and our policies regarding a health insurance scheme which is the subject of the 2 Bills that are before us tonight. 
I agree with  Senator Button  in what he so correctly said about every one of the 6 Bills which were the subject of the double dissolution. When each of the Bills comes before the Senate, an Opposition senator says that the Government does not have a mandate for that Bill. We are still waiting with bated breath to find out which is the Bill for which we have a mandate. Certainly, all of the 6 Bills which were the subject of the double dissolution were very clear to the people of Australia when they voted. They knew what the election was about and they returned Labor to government on the very question of whether those 6 Bills should become law. That is the matter upon which they voted. Now, we hear from the Opposition that we do not rely on an election, even if it was held only 2 months ago and even if it confirmed the result of an election which was held 1 8 months before that. What do we rely on? The Opposition tells us that we rely on gallup polls and some articles in the 'Canberra News' and the London 'Times' which have been presented to us by  Senator Jessop.  Apparently, this is the evidence. 
We do not choose to rely on either the 'Canberra News', the London 'Times' or the gallup polls. We rely on the elections which were held in May when we presented these policies and when we won. We are here to carry out the policies of the Australian Labor Party and we are here to carry out the will of the Australian people who put the Australian Labor Party into government in order to carry out the policies for which they voted. 
I think that it is rather curious that we should be told tonight of the dire fate which awaits us if we adopt a scheme of national health insurance. We are told about the appalling standards of medical practice, the dire distress, the anguish and the suffering of those unfortunate countries in which there is a scheme of health insurance. What are these sad, unfortunate lands about which we have heard so much? They include 
Scandinavia, Finland, the Netherlands, France, West Germany, Austria, Great Britain, Canada and New Zealand. We are told that these are the sad countries where people are sick and miserable because they have the misfortune to live under a scheme of national compulsory health insurance. 
Unfortunately, we have not been told about any of those countries where the people are thriving in radiant health because they do not have health insurance and because they rely on a completely free medical scheme. I am surprised that  Senator Baume, Senator Townley  or one of the other Opposition senators did not tell us about the wonders of medical services in the Philippines, Thailand, Uganda, the Central African Republic and those countries which have the sort of medical service which Opposition senators would like the Australian people to have- that is to say, no health insurance and medical services completely in the hands of private enterprise. I challenge the Opposition to compare the standards of health in those countries which have a national health insurance scheme with the standards in those countries which do not have a national health insurance scheme. I believe that the result is evident to us now without even making such a comparison. The standards of health in Scandinavia and Western Europe are infinitely superior to those in Uganda, the Central African Republic and the Philippines- those countries whose health schemes have gained such admiration from honourable senators opposite tonight. 
I would like to deal in detail with some of the matters that have been raised, particularly those raised by  Senator Guilfoyle. Senator Guilfoyle  represents the shadow Minister for Social Security in the Senate. She explained to us in some detail how iniquitous it is that there should be a form of compulsory - 
-Yes, she did it very well I must say that she made the best of a very bad case.  Senator Guilfoyle  has told us how tragic it is that the rights of the Australian people should be taken away from them in order that they should engage in compulsory health insurance, ls she arguing that compulsory insurance in toto is to be condemned? Are  Senator Guilfoyle  and the Liberal Party saying that there should not be compulsory third party insurance, that there should not be compulsory workers compensation insurance? I do not know. I have never heard the Liberal Party advocating that. Why do not its members advocate that? Because the people of Australia are used to compulsory third party insurance. They know how compulsory third party insurance works, with all its faults, and they know how compulsory workers compensation insurance works, with all its faults. The people of Australia, knowing the ogre of compulsory insurance about which they have been told by our conservative opponents and having lived under it, would never dream of going back to a state of affairs in which there was voluntary third party insurance or voluntary workers compensation insurance. In the same way the people of Western and Northern Europe who have had the experience of national health insurance schemes would never dream of abandoning those schemes. 
Has anyone ever heard of the Christian Democrats of West Germany saying at any stage that they would abandon their scheme of national health insurance? Of course they would notbecause the Christian Democrats, the conservative party in West Germany, introduced the compulsory national health insurance scheme. Did the Conservative Party in Great Britain or even Enoch Powell or the late  Major Sir Henry  LeggeBourke in their wildest moments ever say that the British health scheme should be dismantled? Of course they did not. Why does the Liberal Party in Australia take this position? It takes this position because, as we all know, it is so far to the right that it makes Enoch Powell look like a Trotskyite. There are at present living in Australia one million people who are not members of the voluntary health insurance schemes which exist in this country. There are a variety of reasons, no doubt, why they do not join the present voluntary health insurance scheme. Whatever the reasons may be, the Australian Labor Party believes it is a gross injustice to these people. It is a gross distortion of the social welfare of the country that approximately one-twelfth of our people should be deprived of the medical benefits which we believe are the right of every citizen. We do not deny that it is integral to the policy of our Party that the provision of adequate health services for all citizens and residents of this country is a right to which all those citizens and residents are entitled whether they have or have not joined some voluntary organisation or whether their parents or the people of whom they are dependants have joined such an organisation. 
Conceding that, we believe that the only way and the fairest way in which such provision can be made for the health of the Australian people is a system of compulsory national health insurance. I am pleased that  Senator Steele  Hall, despite the remnants of his earlier days in the Liberal-Country League, at least has gone sufficiently far on this matter to acknowledge, unlike his more troglodytic colleagues on the Opposition benches, that it is essential that there should be a system of compulsory national health insurance. 
I do not think that  Senator Young  should reflect on  Senator Steele  Hall in this way because up till now the Opposition has got his vote. 
-No, not on this measure. The Opposition has  Senator Steele  Hall's vote on this. 
The honourable senator was not listening. I hope that  Senator Steele  Hall and all fair minded people will note that even though  Senator Steele  Hall is voting against us, I am the essence of politeness in my remarks while nothing but rudeness is coming from his former colleagues on the Opposition benches. However, I would like to deal with some of the specific matters raised by  Senator Guilfoyle,  as I think they warrant a reply.  Senator Guilfoyle  has asked for an undertaking that the provisions in clause 24 (3) would not deprive patients of private psychiatric hospital care and benefits for such care. The effect of the provision in clause 24 (3) (a), which states that certain premises used for the care or treatment of mentally ill or mentally defective persons shall not be approved as hospitals for the purposes of hospital payments, is the same as the provision in the definition of 'hospital' in section 4 of the existing National Health Act. The purpose of the provision in the National Health Act is to preclude State mental health institutions from being approved as hospitals and this is the purpose of the provision in clause 24 (3) of the Bill now before the Senate. Private psychiatric hospitals currently approved as hospitals under the National Health Act will be eligible for approval as hospitals under the provisions in the Bill before the Senate. The $16 occupied bed day payment will be made to all approved private hospitals, including private psychiatric hospitals and, where patients in these hospitals are privately insured, treatment in such hospitals will attract private insurance benefits. Private insurance contributions will continue to be allowable taxation concessional deductions. 
Another point on which  Senator Guilfoyle  asked for an explanation related to clause 33 of the Bill.  Senator Guilfoyle  gave the opinion that the effect of clause 33 would be to cause all private hospitals to become financially unviable. Clause 33 provides for an Australian Government payment to all approved private hospitals of $16 per occupied bed day. As this matter has been raised by  Senator Guilfoyle,  I think it is appropriate that we should look at the record of the previous Government in which, unfortunately,  Senator Guilfoyle  was not a Minister. That Government possibly would have survived longer had she been a Minister. However, she was a back bencher. The previous Government's record with regard to payment to private hospitals, if I may give this recent summary of its history, is that on 1 January 1958 Commonwealth hospital benefits for insured patients were last increased and this was to the existing amountthe amount which exists right up to this very day- of $2 a day. At that time public ward fees in public hospitals were approximately $3.60 a day. 
By September 1972 public ward fees had risen to about $15 a day, but the previous LiberalCountry Party Government retained Australian Government assistance at $2 a day. In 1958 private ward fees varied as between States, but if I can take the examples of the most populous States of New South Wales and Victoria, in New South Wales the fee in public hospitals was $7.20, and in Victoria it ranged from $6.50 to $9. By September 1972 these fees had risen to $26.30 in New South Wales and $30 in Victoria. Again, the Commonwealth benefit provided by the Liberal-Country Party Government, the remnants of whose supporters are sitting opposite, was $2 a day, the same as it had been in 1958. Under the health insurance program of this Government- the Government of the Australian Labor Party- this payment of $2 a day which lasted from 1958 to 1972 under the Liberals and the Country Party will be increased to $16 a day. One of the effects of this increase in the rate of the Australian Government payment - 
-What are the costs?  Senator Guilfoyle  says that we are not raising the payment; I say we are raising it; and now  Senator Baume  says: 'What are the costs?' This is the catch 22. First, the Opposition says that we are not giving enough and then when we say 'We are giving more than you gave',  Senator Baume  says That is wrong. What are the costs?'. Apparently, according to the analysis that  Senator Baume  is offering us, whatever we do is wrong. If we do not increase the payment, it would be too low; but when we do increase it the honourable senator asks: 'What are the costs? Where is the money coming from?' It is going to come from the same place which, as  Senator Poyser  reminds me, the money came to send conscripted Australians to Vietnam. That is where the money is going to come from- from exactly the same place. I find is so terribly interesting. I am glad that honourable senators opposite have reminded me of it. Those honourable senators opposite who are so opposed to conscription say, in effect: 'What a shocking thing conscription is. Imagine conscripting these doctors'. 
-Senator Webster has reminded us of the communists too. We have not heard him on that for a long while. (Honourable senators interjecting) - 
-Thank you,  Mr President.  It is gladdening to see that in a changing and impermanent world some things never change- and one of them is  Senator Webster's  interjections. One of the effects of the increase in the rate of the Australian Government payment will be that the rates of benefit for which people will be required to insure privately will be markedly lower than those for which they would need to insure if the existing payment of $2 a day were to continue. I fail to see, and I think we would all fail to see, how this action could endanger the financial viability of private hospitals. The argument is, as I understand it from what was said by  Senator Guilfoyle,  that somehow the financial viability of private hospitals is endangered by our scheme. Yet it is our proposal to increase the amount paid from $2 to $16. If that is how you damage someone's financial viability I only wish that my own financial viability could be endangered in such a way. 
Another aspect of the provisions of the Bill which relates to private hospitals, which was raised by  Senator Guilfoyle,  is that clause 34 of the Bill will cause a loss of autonomy for religious, charitable and community hospitals. It is in the area of the provision of hospital treatment by private, religious, charitable and community hospitals that the Government has, most clearly of all, expressed its appreciation of the very important contribution which has been made by the private sector. The Government has no intention of endangering the role played by such hospitals or of interfering with their autonomy of management and of administration. 
What the Bill before the Senate does offer to these hospitals is the opportunity to participate in the program by accepting patients for free accommodation and treatment in return for which the Government will make additional payments designed to take account of fees lost and any additional expenses incurred. I have to repeat that a decision by a hospital to participate in the special arrangements would be completely at the discretion of the hospital itself, and throughout the currency of such arrangements the individual hospitals would retain absolute autonomy over all management and policy matters such as the policies it adopts towards admission and treatment. 
I do not think he has. The aim of the provisions contained in clause 34 of the Health Insurance Bill is to provide a continuing and in some respects expanded role for the religious, charitable and community hospitals, and to ensure that the contributions made by the dedicated staff of these hospitals is not lost. 

 Senator Guilfoyle addressed herself to some other clauses of the Bill. She said that clauses 30 to 32 of the Health Insurance Bill had the effect of placing State hospitals under the direct control of the Australian Government. Clauses 30 to 32 of the Bill relate to State governments entering into agreements with the Australian Government and the heads of these agreements are spelt out in schedule 2 of the Health Insurance Bill, which is one of the Bills which are now before us. Under these agreements the Australian Government will meet 50 per cent of the net operating costs of public hospitals, and the $16 per occupied bed day payment will form part of this 50 per cent. This cost-sharing arrangement will considerably improve the financial position of State public hospital systems and will place the financing of these systems on a stable basis. 
It is true that certain objectives of the Australian Government will also be achieved through these agreements. For example, the agreements will enable free standard bed treatment to be made available to all people regardless of means with medical services being provided to standard bed patients by doctors paid on a salaried sessional basis. However, the provisions of the Health Insurance Bill and the agreements cannot be construed to mean that the Australian Government will be placing State hospitals under the direct control of the Australian Government. 

 Senator Guilfoyle has quoted to us; and this matter has already been dealt with very largely by  Senator Button-  the report by a firm of actuaries in Melbourne on the estimated costing of the proposed national health insurance scheme. I do not want to dwell on this matter because it seems to me to be rather profitless in debates like this to discuss reports made by actuaries. But there are a couple of things I would like to say about this matter. With very becoming modesty  Senator Guilfoyle  did not name the firm of actuaries which prepared this report. Nor did she tell us who commissioned the report. As it happens we know that the report was prepared, as  Senator Button  has told us, by E. S. Knight and Co. of Melbourne, and it was commissioned by the Australian Medical Association. The document which was previously published, I think last year, and which was referred to this afternoon by  Senator Guilfoyle  is part of a much larger report. I think that is all I want to say about this actuarial report. I could argue that it would seem from the information that we have that to a great extent the alleged facts, the data which were given to the actuaries in making their assessment, were inaccurate or incomplete. As I have said, I believe it would be pointless for the Senate to debate an actuaries ' report. However, I would challenge the Government to produce at some stage the whole of the report and not just the document which is an extract from that report. 
I said the Government did 1. 1 beg your pardon. We do not have the report to produce. I would ask the Opposition to produce the whole report and include in the report the data which was given to the actuaries, because having little bits and pieces and a few snippets which appear in a document like this, without knowing the data and without knowing the basis of calculation, it is completely useless to make any sort of assessment on a serious matter of this kind. But as the matter has been raised and some sort of extrapolation has been done, in a rather crude way if I may say so, by  Senator Sheil,  and in a somewhat more sophisticated way by  Senator Guilfoyle,  of the estimated increases in costs of the National Health Insurance Bill which is now before the Parliament and which the Australian Labor Party hopes will be adopted, I think it may be salutary to look at some of the increases which have taken place in hospital charges under the existing scheme. I am not referring to the new scheme but just to the same old scheme we have always had. 
If we take New South Wales as an example we find that in public wards the fee was fixed on 1 August 1971 at $15. On 1 August 1974, 3 years later, it was fixed at $22.50. This is an increase of 50 per cent in 3 years. In the case of Tasmania, which  Senator Townley  misrepresents in this chamber, we find that on 1 January 1973 the fee was fixed at $18 and on 1 October 1974-1 year and 9 months later- it was fixed at $30 which is an increase of 67 per cent. Therefore under the existing scheme there has been an increase in Tasmania of 67 per cent in a little over a year and a half. One can well imagine what the Opposition and its tame actuaries would be saying to us if they were able to justify with all of their extrapolations and all of the figures that they have been plucking out of the air and giving to us tonight that there was going to be an increase of anything of the order of 67 per cent in hospital costs in a period of 18 months under our scheme. Yet this is what has happened under the existing scheme. 
We have debated this Bill at very considerable length. The people of Australia are familiar with the issues which are involved in it. The people have been asked on 3 occasions what they thought about this Bill. On the first occasion in 1969 they rejected the Australian Labor Party and elected, as they soon found to their cost, a Government composed of the Liberal-Country Parties. In 1972 and 1974 they elected the Australian Labor Party. The elected us here to carry out our policies We have our policies. We are not here merely to sit on this side of the President's chair. We are here to make substantial changes in the society, to the benefit of the people whom we represent and to the benefit of all of the Australian people. We are a Party of major social change. That is what we are proud of. That is why the Australian Labor Party came into existence. That is why we are introducing these Bills. The Bills that are before us at present are modest Bills. They are Bills which have the support of the Christian Democrats of western Europe and the Conservatives of Great Britain. The Bills very closely approximate to the national health insurance scheme in New Zealand. That country's own conservative party, the National Party, never would have dreamed of dismantling that scheme. 
All that we are doing tonight is introducing the sort of measure which any half-enlightened twentieth century conservative party would have introduced 30 years ago. We are saying tonight that we are determined that the people of Australia, in order to suit the interests of any group with vested interests, will not be denied the good health and the health service to which they are entitled and which the Australian Labor Party is determined to see that they will have.  I  commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Minister for the Environment and Conservation has provided me with the following reply to the honourable senator's question: 
A proposed program to initiate and develop the national wetlands survey is presently under consideration by the Australian Government. 
At a meeting in February 1974 the Standing Committee of the Council of Nature Conservation Ministers endorsed in principle the program for the national wetlands survey as originally proposed by the Australian Fauna Authorities' Conference. The Council has yet to consider the matter. 
-On 18 July 1974,  Senator Drake-Brockman  asked me, as Minister representing the Minister for Health, the following question without notice: 
Is it a fact that pensioner ileostomy sufferers are required to spend several dollars a week out of their own pockets on essential medical materials? If so, will the Government consider including this expense in the pensioner medical service cover? 
The Minister for Health has now furnished me with the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
There are two aspects to this matter, one involving stoma appliances which, in most cases, these people must wear, and drugs and medicinal preparations. 
As a general comment, pensioners who are unable to obtain stoma appliances through the Out-patients' Department of a hospital would have to meet some expense in obtaining their appliances. This has caused the Minister a great deal of concern and he has already asked the Working Party on Medical and Surgical Aids and Appliances in his Department to report on the provision of stoma appliances to all who need them. 
Regarding drugs and medicinal preparations, pensioners who are members of Ileostomy or Colostomy Associations are able to obtain appropriate preparations for use with their appliances free of charge. Those pensioners who are not members of such associations would, of course, obtain their pharmaceutical preparations, on prescription from their doctors, under the normal free pensioner pharmaceutical benefits arrangements. 
-Yes, I am aware that there has been some criticism of the quarantine procedures in Western Australia, particularly at Fremantle. I take it that that is what  Senator Sim  refers to. Obviously any criticism of quarantine procedures is taken very seriously by the Department of Health. I think all honourable senators would agree that Australia has a quite outstanding record so far as quarantine is concerned, even to the point that some people say that it is unnecessarily strict and severe. That certainly is not the view of the Department or of the Senate. After these complaints were received, at the direction of the Minister for Health 3 senior officers of his Department were sent to investigate the matter. They were the First Assistant DirectorGeneral of Quarantine, who is a veterinary surgeon with many years of private and governmental experience; the Director of the New South Wales Division of the Department, who is a qualified medical practitioner with many years of experience; and the Assistant DirectorGeneral of the Department's policy secretariat. They went to Western Australia in the middle of March to make an on-the-spot investigation of the complaints that had been raised. During their visit to Western Australia they interviewed everybody who could be in any position to shed any light on the matter, particularly in regard to any of the specific allegations that had been made. 
These 3 senior officers reported that they could find no evidence to suggest that there had been a break-down of the procedures in Fremantle in particular or Western Australia in general. They found particularly that quarantine security had not been impaired in any way by the decision of the Western Australia Director of Health, who is also a very experienced medical officer, to reserve for himself the authority to order the fumigation of vessels, which I think was one of the matters particularly concerning the people who had been critical. More recently there was more criticism in the Press to the effect that the grain ship 'Lorana' was not fumigated with cyanide gas while it was in Fremantle last month. The Director of the Department of Health in Western Australia has been instructed to issue a Press statement setting out the full facts of the case. As far as I understand, that has been done. For the benefit of honourable senators I should add that the Minister for Health assures me that he is satisfied that proper quarantine measures were taken in regard to the 'Lorana '. All the procedures were carried out. They were entirely in accord with the recommendations that were made as late as 1972 by the World Health Organisation, and they were consistent with Australia's very high standards of quarantine. 
-This question is rather similar to one asked by  Senator Mulvihill  which I answered recently. For some time the Concord Repatriation Hospital has been available for the treatment of people who have been injured in accidents, particularly road accidents, in the vicinity of the hospital. As I understand it, at the present time appropriate steps are being taken by the Repatriation Commission to see that the facilities are extended so that there is a full-scale, properly conducted casualty department within the Concord Hospital and so that these services are provided on a systematic basis rather than on the more ad hoc basis which exists at the present time. As soon as I am in a position to know when the casualty department will be functioning, I shall advise  Senator Brown. 
I am glad,  Mr President,  that  Senator Grimes  asked that question. You may be surprised to learn that I agree with the conclusions he has drawn from the facts which he has, with such a sense of public responsibility, brought to the attention of the Senate. Certainly we are all aware that the conduct of private hospital benefit funds has been that of private entrepreneurs engaging in a businessand the business they have been dealing with is the health of the Australian people. It has not been a public service which they have been providing. It has been to a very large extent a means of providing very great rewards for these people who have occupied executive positions in a series of organisations which have not in any way served the best interests of a national health scheme for the Australian people. It is for that reason and for many other equally good reasons that the Australian Labor Party adopted its policy towards national health insurance. It is for that reason that we presented these Bills to the Parliament. It is for that reason that we went to a double dissolution- and the Australian people re-elected us to govern. And it is for that reason that we will once again in the very near future be putting these propositions to Parliament at a joint sitting of both Houses. 
I can supply this information. 
Yes. As a matter of fact, I have the situation at my fingertips although, unfortunately, only up to 30 June 1974. As at 30 June 1974, 1,438 applications had been received from ex-service men and women who had served in a theatre of war for treatment of malignant cancer under the new provisions of the Repatriation Act. 
-The other pension benefits are virtually automatic. I think that the honourable senator will find that these matters will be attended to when the Budget is presented later this year. 
-Obviously the question that  Senator Mulvihill  has asked has some increased urgency owing to the more recent developments that have taken place in Cyprus. As the position stands at the moment, the members of the Australian police forces serving in Cyprus are not covered by repatriation benefits. They are serving in the United Nations force as members of the State, Territory and Commonwealth police forces, and during the terms of their engagement they are paid by the Commonwealth Police Force. They are eligible for compensation for injury in the terms of the legislation applying to other employees of the Australian Government. However, the issue which  Senator Mulvihill  has raised is certainly of interest to the Government, and an interdepartmental committee, which includes in its membership representatives from the Department of Repatriation and Compensation, has been established to inquire into the whole question of compensation for injury or death which may result to any of the policemen from Australia who are serving in the United Nations peace keeping forces. I have been told that the committee will be reporting to me soon. As soon as I have a report from the committee I shall advise  Senator Mulvihill,  and indeed the Senate, as I am sure that all honourable senators will be interested in this matter. 
-The answer to the second part of the question, I suppose, reminds one of one's arithmetic lessons at school. The difference would be that a couple would receive $6 and that 2 single pensioners would receive - 
I am sorry. I thought the honourable senator was asking me about the addition. 
-Could you? I suggest to  Senator Townley  that if he can make that calculation he can just as easily make the other calculation as well by adding the increases to the existing pensions. There may well be some disagreement about the rationale of this matter but this is a practice which, for good or ill, has been followed not only by this Government but also by previous governments. I can understand the argument about this matter that two can live as cheaply, or almost as cheaply, as one. 
-That is a matter for a different type of discussion which I do not think we should enter into at the moment. Apparently the argument has been that a single person requires more than half the income of a couple living together. Whether this is a good approach or a bad approach, it certainly seems to be something of a bi-partisan approach, because it was also done by the previous Government. That is the rationale for it. 
-The short answer to the question is no. In fact, it is estimated that the maximum demand for repatriation benefits will not be reached until some 10 years from now. At present some 800,000 people, including veterans of both World Wars, the South African War, the Korean War and the Vietnam War, are eligible for repatriation benefits. Although it is true that the number of people receiving war pensions is declining with the advancing years, this of course is paralleled by the fact that the number of war widows who are entitled to repatriation benefits is increasing. Something like 20 per cent of the male population of Australia above the age of 20 years are ex-servicemen, and of those Australian males between the ages of 50 and 55 years well over half are ex-servicemen eligible for these benefits. So in fact the functions, not specifically those of the Department of Repatriation and Compensation but specifically those concerning the repatriation aspects handled by the Repatriation Commission, would appear to be increasing and will reach their peak- we hope that there will be no other war in which we are involved in the meantime- by the middle of the 1980s. 
In answer to the last part of  Senator Sim's  question: My information is that the inderpartmental committee sought evidence from all of those persons who could possibly shed any light on the matter, that is, all the relevant officials and other functionaries in the port of Fremantle. With regard to the first part of the question: Certainly the matter  Senator Sim  has raised is a most serious one if the allegations which these 2 persons have made are correct. I say this because there has been a lot of concern just recently over the spread of foot and mouth disease of which there is some sort of epidemic at the moment, in Bali. All I can do is convey to the Minister for Health the information which  Senator Sim  has given, ask him to make a thorough investigation of the allegations which have been made by these 2 persons who were on the 'Khota Bali' and see that  Senator Sim  is provided with an answer as soon as those investigations are completed. 
-The new standard pension rate is $3 1 a week which is approximately 25 per cent of the average weekly earnings as calculated at the June quarter. This is the highest percentage of average weekly earnings since 1946 when there also was an Australian Labor Party Government. It compares very markedly with the level of 19 per cent to which the standard pension rate had fallen in 1971 under the previous discredited Liberal-Country Party Government. 
I understand that the actual saving in Government expenditure on the postponement of the abolition of the means test will be about $40m. I regard the other questions as questions of policy, and I do not intend to enter into a debate with  Senator Townley  at question time. He can take up the matter at a later stage. 
-Yes. In fact the Australian Government has taken action on this very matter. The Indonesian Government asked the Australian Government for some assistance and a team of Australian experts went to Indonesia. They were there from 7 to 14 June last. The purpose of their visit was to find out what sort of assistance Australia could give to Indonesia. This team of experts has already made a report to the Government and it is hoped that on the basis of the report we shall soon be able to give some concrete assistance to the Indonesian Government in combating the foot and mouth disease outbreak in Bali. 
-Probably one of the major difficulties with any plan of social security- I regard repatriation as being a particular kind of social service- is to see that people who are entitled to receive benefits are aware of the benefits that they are entitled to receive. In some respects, this is rather easier with matters relating to repatriation because there are records of ex-servicemen and of their dependants. Periodically, departmental publications and leaflets are prepared and distributed through exservicemen's organisations and in other ways for the information of these people. Quite frequently, officers of the Department of Repatriation and Compensation personally visit country districts so that they can make known to potential recipients of repatriation benefits in the country districts precisely what are the benefits that are available to them. I think that even with the difficulties that are in this matter it would be very unusual to find that anybody was able to complain that he had problems in finding out from my Department what repatriation benefits he was entitled to receive. 
I think that for some time the Government and in particular the Minister for Social Security have been aware of the fact that very great disabilities are imposed on parents of children who need medical attention and cannot obtain it near where they live. Indeed such disabilities are imposed on the parents themselves in these areas when they need such attention. There is no real difference in the disabilities whether it is a child or an adult who needs medical attention and has to travel some considerable distance in order to obtain this assistance. All I can do at the moment is to undertake to pass on the question which has been asked by  Senator Melzer  to the Minister for Social Security who no doubt will take account of this matter when he is preparing his submissions for the forthcoming Budget. 
I ask the honourable senator to put that question on notice. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill proposes an increase of $5 to $3 1 a week in the rate of pension payable to the widows pensioned under the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act. The number of widows involved is only 5 1 and the cost of the increase is included in the amount mentioned in the Second Reading Speech on the Repatriation Bill (No. 2) 1974. The Bill provides that the increase will be payable from the first pension pay-day after the Bill receives royal assent. It is my pleasure,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  to commend the Bill to the Senate. 
in reply- I should like again to thank  Senator Drake-Brockman  and the Opposition for allowing a speedy passage of the Bill. I can certainly assure the honourable senator that in the Government's deliberations on the Budget proper attention will be paid to seeing not only that the recipients of repatriation benefits are in no way prejudiced but also what can be done to improve the general level of repatriation benefits for those entitled to receive such benefits. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill proposes to increase the rate of pension paid under column 2 of Schedule 1 to the Repatriation Act to the widows of servicemen who died while on war service, who have subsequently died from Service-related causes, or who are otherwise pensioned as war widows. It is proposed to increase the rate by $5 to $31 a week. There are just on 50,550 widows in receipt of this pension, including 5 1 pensioned under the provisions of the Seamen's War Pensions and 
Allowances Act and 48 under ex gratia arrangements. The total cost of the proposed increases will be $13. 143m for a full year. Other repatriation pensioners who are to receive an immediate increase in their pensions are Service pensioners; they will receive the same increases as have just been announced for age and invalid pensioners under the Social Service Act; that is, $5 a week for the single service pensioner and $3 a week for each of a married couple. 
The remaining item dealt with by this Bill is to reduce the transitional benefit for the aged blind from $156 to $78 a year. The reason for this reduction has been fully explained in the second reading speech on the Social Services Bill. Other repatriation pensions and allowances will be considered in the normal Budget deliberations and any increases will be announced in the Budget Speech. The Bill provides that the proposed increases will become payable from the first pension pay-day after the Bill receives royal assent and I, therefore, hope that honourable senators opposite will give it a speedy passage through this chamber. It is my pleasure,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  to commend the Bill to the Senate. 
I think that  Senator Jessop  is correct in drawing attention to the fact that anything that is done about a matter such as this obviously would have to be done with cooperation between the Federal Government and the South Australian Government. I think that the question the honourable senator asked, seeking details of the Redcliffs project and the problems in relation to it, is a matter for the Minister for the Environment and Conservation. I shall refer  Senator Jessop  's question to him and provide the honourable senator with an answer as soon as it is available. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill gives effect to the increases in pensions, benefits and allowances announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  It exemplifies the Government's concern for those for whom it has a great and important responsibility, pensioners and beneficiaries living on fixed incomes. This measure has become of particular importance because of the delay in presenting the Budget that will occur as a result of the Opposition's action in forcing the recent elections. 
The Bill provides for the standard rate of pension to be increased by $5 a week to $3 1 a week and the individual married rate by $3 a week to $25.75 a week. The combined rate for a married pensioner couple will thus become $51.50 a week. Unemployment, sickness benefit and special benefits, sheltered employment allowances and rehabilitation allowances are to be increased on a similar basis. 
The increases now proposed are the highest ever made and they will add an extra $307m to expenditure which would have otherwise been incurred in 1974-75 on pensions and benefits payable under the Social Services Act. As honourable senators know the Government is committed to increasing pensions twice annually until the standard rate of pensions reaches 25 per cent of average weekly male earnings. 
The new standard rate established by this Bill will be 26 per cent of seasonally adjusted average weekly male earnings for the March quarter 1974, the latest quarter for which figures are available. It will be almost 25 per cent of the estimated average weekly male earnings seasonally adjusted for the June quarter of 1974. In the interim report of the Australian Government's Commission of Inquiry into Poverty, Professor Henderson proposed that, for the Budget of 1974, the standard rate of pension should be $27 a week, increased by rises in average weekly male earnings since August 1973. On the basis of estimated average weekly male earnings for the June quarter 1974 this would justify an increase in the standard rate of pension of approximately $4.90 over the present weekly rate of $26. As already stated, the proposed Bill before the Senate increases the rate to $3 1 a week. 
The proposed increases in pensions will have the effect of raising the limits of income and property at which pensions cease to be payable under the means test. This will enable people who are now excluded from pension entitlement to qualify for some payment for the first time. A single person without property affecting his pension will retain some pension entitlement until his income reaches $82 a week. If he has no other income he will be eligible to receive some pension until the value of his non-exempt property reaches $43,040. For a married couple, the equivalent limits of income and property will be $137.50 a week and $72,320 respectively. A widow with one child and no property affecting will now be able to receive income of up to $106 a week before losing her entitlement to widow's pension, or up to $110 if her child is under 6 years of age or an invalid child requiring fulltime care. If she has no income affecting, a widow with one child may have property to the value of $48,800, or $50,880 if her child is under 6 years of age or an invalid requiring full-time care, before her entitlement to widow's pension is extinguished. 
As honourable senators will know, the first phase of the Government's program to abolish the means test on age pensions was taken in September last year and applied to all residentially qualified people aged 75 or more. In that same year the Income Tax Assessment Act was amended to make pensions and similar benefits payable to people of pensionable age (65 years for men and 60 for women) taxable as from 1 July 1973. The Government at that time decided to introduce a transitional benefit for the aged blind of $3 a week to alleviate any detriment which they might have experienced when their pensions became taxable. As its name implies, the transitional benefit was intended to be phased out over subsequent years as increases in pension rates improved the benefit rate to these pensioners. 
Mindful of the substantial increases in pensions now proposed the Government has decided that the Bill now before the Senate should provide for a reduction of $1.50 a week in the rate of this transitional benefit. In accordance with the usual practice, it is proposed that the pension increases provided under this Bill will operate from and including the paydays following royal assent. This will apply also to the reduction in the transitional benefit for the blind. The increases in unemployment and sickness benefits will, as usual, operate in respect of the benefit week ending on the date of the royal assent and each benefit week thereafter.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
in reply-I wish to speak only briefly and to say, firstly, that I thank the Opposition for allowing a speedy passage of this essential Bill. I want to say how pleased I am to observe that the Liberal Party now has adopted the philosophy of the welfare state- something to which only a short time ago it was so intractably opposed. In fact, the Liberal Party criticism now is not that our welfare programs go too far but that they do not go far enough. For that reason, being a person of modest aims and moderate disposition, I was pleased to see that the people within the Liberal Party with whom  Senator Guilfoyle  is associated were so successful only last weekend in Victoria. I am sure that those people to whom they were opposed would not have the same advanced views as  Senator Guilfoyle  has shown to the Senate tonight. 
There are a couple of other things I would like to say. I certainly agree with  Senator Guilfoyle,  and I think the Government would agree with her, on the position of supporting fathers. Clearly it is not possible, as any government knows, for us to do everything that we want to do within the course of one year, or in one piece of legislation. We regret also that for various reasons it is impracticable to proceed with the Government's child care proposals. We would have been able to proceed with them but for the fact that the Liberal Party and the Country Party were in government for 23 years and during that time no provision whatsoever was made for child care. That denied us a base upon which to build an adequate system of child care for the Australian people. 
We also acknowledge- I agree with  Senator Guilfoyle  in this regard- that inflation is one of the reasons why it was necessary to increase the pensions which are the subject of this Bill. There is no denying that there is inflation. We do not attempt to deny it. But I do deny that so far any of the Opposition parties have suggested anything which could be regarded as being even partly successful in overcoming the problems of inflation. The Opposition Parties have no more ideas about the problems of inflation than do their conservative counterparts in countries which are comparable with Australia and which are battling with inflation rates of a not dissimilar magnitude to the rate we have in this country. In regard to  Senator Guilfoyle  's comments about the situation of the husband and wife, I personally would be inclined to agree with what she said. Indeed, we are moving towards eliminating the problems which arise from a smaller payment being made to a husband and wife living together than is made to 2 separate persons. However, again I think I should point out that that was the practice followed during 23 years of Liberal-Country Party government. It seems rather strange that the Opposition Parties suddenly should discover that this is an anomaly. 
If fact, as  Senator Cavanagh  has reminded me, that differentiation was introduced by the Opposition Parties. It was the Liberal-Country Party Government which abolished the situation which  Senator Guilfoyle  advocated tonight. It is the Australian Labor Party which is moving towards eliminating the type of differences which  Senator Guilfoyle  's Party introduced not so many years ago. I again thank  Senator Guilfoyle  and the Opposition for allowing the speedy passage of this Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I do not know whether  Senator Baume  was serious in asking such a question without notice of a Minister representing another. On the assumption that he was, I ask him to put the question on the notice paper. 

 -Mr President, I apologise for not being able to employ the same intonation that you employed when you called the honourable senator to ask his question. At the present time the Government is endeavouring to do away with the special compensation allowance, which was introduced by the previous Government in 1968. It would appear that the special compensation allowance was introduced by the previous Government because it wished to avoid or felt that it needed to avoid increasing the whole of the general rate range of pensions. The special compensation allowance which the previous Government introduced provided for a situation in which those general rate war pensioners whose incapacity was assessed at from 75 per cent to 100 per cent of the general rate scale received this allowance. Fewer than 30,000 out of 190,000 general rate pensioners received the special compensation allowance. 
There were a number of anomalies in the situation because, obviously, if the special compensation allowance was to start only with those pensioners who were receiving 75 per cent of the pension, those who were receiving less than 75 per cent would be in a relatively disadvantageous position compared with those who were receiving more than this figure. The result was that an ex-serviceman whose incapacity was assessed at, say, 70 per cent would be receiving only about 49 per cent of the total pension paid to a pensioner on the 100 per cent rate, whereas a pensioner who was assessed at 75 per cent would be receiving 26 per cent more than the exserviceman whose incapacity was assessed at 70 per cent. 
I think that the question which  Senator Mcintosh  has asked is an important one because a number of people have been concerned about matters relating to the special compensation allowance. The Government's intention at the moment is to increase the whole of the general rate. As a result of its increasing the general rate to all pensioners on all percentage disabilities, the necessity for the special compensation allowance is being removed. Although the special compensation allowance is being reduced in individual cases, the total amount of pension is remaining the same or is increasing in every instance. We hope and we intend that in due course the necessity for having such an allowance will be removed. 
-Early in 1972 the Australian Labor Party gave an undertaking on this matter when  Mr Barnard  told the British Sub-branch of the Returned Services League that we would be taking steps to see that allied ex-servicemen who had resided in Australia for a minimum period would become eligible for service pensions. This eligibility still has not been extended although the social service pensions to which they are entitled are the equivalent of the service pensions but are not obtainable until a later age than the age at which service pensions are available. I am at present considering this matter not only as it relates to British exservicemen but also as it relates to some other allied ex-servicemen, particularly Polish ex-servicemen who are in a much worse situation than a number of people because they do not have a home government to which they can address representations about their situation. Of course, British ex-servicemen receive pensions paid by the British Department of Health and Social Security, I think it is called, for which the Australian Department of Repatriation and Compensation acts as an agent. I can give no undertakings at present other than to say that I am considering this matter, and shall be making submissions in due course to Cabinet with regard to extending these benefits which I think should be extended as a matter of justice. 
-During May the resident medical officers at the Heidelberg Hospital threatened industrial action because of dissatisfaction with their salaries. As is often the case with disputes involving professional workers such as doctors, the basis of their claim was that they were not receiving the same salaries as resident medical officers employed by other public hospitals in Victoria who had recently received quite a substantial pay increases. Since then there have been negotiations between the Department and the industrial organisation which represents resident medical officers, and as a result of the negotiations the threat of industrial action was averted. A pay offer was made by the Public Service Board and it was accepted. Very shortly there is to be another review of the salaries of resident medical officers and other medical officers employed by my Department. This is being done because it is understood that shortly there will be another announcement of an increase in the salaries payable to resident medical officers employed by other public hospitals in Victoria. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The second reading speech to this Bill is of about 9 foolscap pages and is identical in all material respects to the second reading speech given by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  in the House of Representatives. I seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in Hansard. 
I am not going to debate the position of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden).  All I am going to say is that we had a Bill which was accepted in principle by the Opposition parties and it was made clear by  Mr Chipp  in another place that they would accept it. In dealing with the spokesmen on these matters in the Senate agreement was reached at an early stage that we would accept an amendment that would be moved. We believe that it was urgent that this Bill should be passed. I do not intend to go rolling in the gutter with  Senator Greenwood.  I think that his behaviour tonight has been disgraceful. I can assure him that if he were only to see the looks of dismay on the faces of his colleagues he would wipe from his face the silly grin which he has there now. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
in reply- There is certainly more than a measure of logic in  Senator Hall's  statement about the order in which the Bills should be dealt with, but as an old friend of mine who was a member of this chamber for quite a long time often used to remark: 'It is not much use having the logic if you have not got the numbers'. Despite some weaknesses which  Senator Carrick  claimed to have detected in my mathematicsSenator Hall claimed to have detected some weaknesses in  Senator Carrick  's mathematicswe are fairly experienced at counting heads. If I might say so, between ourselves it seems that at a joint sitting we would have the numbers. Even with the most welcome support of  Senator Hall,  who appears to be playing in this chamber the role of a curate's egg, we would still not be capable of carrying the passage of the Bills through the Senate, however logical it may appear to be to do so and however long we were to wait. I suggest that we would be waiting until after the next election when the resounding victory of the Australia Labor Party would make all these things quite easy. 
As  Senator Guilfoyle  told us, we have been round the track a few times already on these Bills. I must confess that I felt a somewhat sinking feeling when  Senator Hall  suggested that we ought to go through them again after the joint sitting. Most of the matters which have been raised today have been raised in every possible permutation and combination and from every conceivable point of view over many months, not only here but outside, all round the country, backwards and forwards. I do not think that the general disagreement on mathematics will be resolved in this chamber. The Bills are ancillary Bills. They are subsequent to the Bills which have been before the Senate several hundred times, it seemed to me, but I am assured that the number is much less than that. They follow previous Bills. I think it could be said that all these Bills have something in common with Aristotle's view of the universe, that is, if you pulled one of them out the rest would collapse. 
Certain specific points have been raised or reraised during this afternoon's symposium. Perhaps it would be impolite of me not to refer to some of them.  Senator Guilfoyle  criticised the Government for not releasing cost figures on its health insurance proposals. The Government's health insurance program was fully costed in the White Paper entitled, 'The Australian Health Insurance Program', which has been available to all honourable senators for quite some time. Naturally, the overall costs of health services covered by health insurance are rising quickly. This is also the position under the existing scheme. It seems that the Opposition is prone to ignore this fact. It seems a little ironic that in the same week that 2 major hospital funds announced their own proposals to make dramatic and quite draconic increases in the existing rates of contributions we are told by the Opposition what an appalling thing it is that the rates may increase under our proposal. Everybody's rates for everything, apart from rates of salary for members of Parliament, appear to be increasing at present. It is a result of inflation, which we all deplore. I must confess that if the Opposition has a ready solution to the problem of inflation, it has so far successfully kept it a secret. 
I think the White Paper would cover that matter. 
I think it would cover that matter. The fact that the cost of the existing scheme are soaring means that further revenue must be derived somewhere. Presumably it will be derived from increases in health insurance contributions. These increases are distributed inequitably over all the contributors to the funds. This has been dramatically illustrated by what has been happening in New South Wales. Under Labor's proposal, a levy of 1.35 per cent of taxable income will be payable. A person's contribution to the cost of health care is based on the principle of his capacity to pay. The contribution is based on capacity to pay, in the same way that contributions to most other public services which are recognised by both the Government and the Opposition as essential services are contributed to by the citizens on the basis of their ability to pay. This levy is not an additional payment but a substitution for contributions to existing private health insurance funds under the present scheme. 

 Senator Baume said that the new scheme would raise difficulties because of the 'pay as you earn' method of collection and because additional forms would need to be filled in. Apparently this is seen as a major problem. The scheme does not call for the employee to fill in any additional forms, but employers must show separate sums on pay slips and record separately the levy deducted, as that amount may be recorded on group certificates which are issued to employeees at the end of the financial year. We believe that there is no great problem in this regard. It is hardly something which warrants rejection of a major contribution to the social security system of this country. 
He also drew some attention to the already high and rapidly growing costs of health care and implied, it seemed, that this would be something which would affect specifically the Labor scheme. This is also the position under the present scheme. If costs rise as quickly as  Senator Baume  apparently believes they will rise, many people on lower incomes will be unable to meet the inequitable and high contributions required under the present scheme, where the net cost for lower income earners is more, proportionately, than for the wealthy. One would have to ask  Senator Baume  whether he believes that only the more well to do members of the community should be able to ensure against rising health costs. 

 Senator Carrick, during his discourse which was interspersed frequently with invitations, mainly to me but occasionally to some others, raised the question of the imposition of the levy on working wives and single people. The criterion which we are using in the scheme we propose is ability to pay.  Senator Carrick  chose his examples to suit the argument he put forward. I am not suggesting that that is an unusual practice on the part of honourable senators on both sides of the chamber; but that is what he did. He ignored the majority who will pay no more under the Government's program and the great number of people who will pay less. I do not intend to start labouring the details at this moment. I think there will be an opportunity next week, at the joint sitting of the Parliament, for everybody who wants to talk about these things to do so, as I have no doubt they will. In fact, they already have done so. 
Further,  Senator Carrick  ignored the fact that the existing private health insurance contributions are about to be increased substantially. It would be interesting to hear  Senator Carrick  speak again on this subject on 1 July 1975. It would be interesting to hear what he might say then about the present impositions on people who are subject to the present scheme.  Senator Carrick  made great play of the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Health Insurance, the Nimmo report, and demonstrated to us very clearly- I think we were all convinced- that  Mr Justice  Nimmo had said nothing about nationalising the existing funds. That was quite remarkable; but it would have been more surprising if  Mr Justice  Nimmo had done the contrary, because his terms of reference were confined strictly to the existing voluntary health insurance schemes. It was completely outside his terms of reference- in fact, he was precluded by the terms of reference from doing this- to make any recommendations on any alternative to a system based upon voluntary schemes. 

 Mr President, we have been through all this before. This matter has been put to the Australian people 3 times in general terms. In 1969, as they later discovered to their cost, they rejected the Australian Labor Party's proposals; but they accepted them in 1972 and, as  Senator Young  would be only too willing to acknowledge, they reaffirmed their acceptance of them in 1974. These Bills are part of Labor's welfare program for all the Australian people. We intend to carry on our fight to see that the Australian people have the best health system in the world. We believe that these Bills are a substantial step in that direction. Once again, I commend these 4 Bills- not three as  Senator Carrick  would have us believe- to the Senate. 
Question put: 
in reply- I would be loath to look a gift horse in the mouth, especially when it is such a long winded horse. The only thing I would say is that we accept the amendment, but not because I think we are a cream puff government. I fail to see how we are both a ruthless, oppressive government and a cream puff government simultaneously, which apparently  Senator Greenwood  seems to think that we are. We accept the amendment because the Bill itself is essential. We do not think that the amendment is a very good amendment. There is a significant typographical error in the first line of proposed clause 12 (b) which I think requires correction- otherwise it is totally incomprehensible. We accept the amendment and we hope that it will be dealt with very promptly. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
Clause 4. 
Where, under this section, the Minister has refused to approve of a change, whether in whole or in part, the organization may lodge with the Minister a notice of appeal against the refusal on the ground that the refusal is likely to result in the moneys in the fund becoming less than the amounts reasonably required for the purposes of the fund, including the maintenance of adequate reserves, and, where such a notice is lodged, the Attorney-General shall make arrangements for a person, being a Judge of a Federal Court or of the Supreme Court of a State or Territory, to hear the appeal. 
The person determining the appeal may direct the Minister to approve the change in whole or in part. 
The provisions of sub-sections ( 12) and (13) apply in relation to the giving of a direction by the Minister under section 73b in like manner as they apply in relation to the refusal of an approval under this section and the person hearing an appeal by virtue of this sub-section may require the Minister to revoke or vary the direction in respect of which the appeal is brought.'. 
Clause 5. After section 78 of the Principal Act the following section is inserted:-  78a. (1) It is unlawful for a registered organization to contravene or fail to observe a condition to which its registration is subject or to demand or receive contributions to a medical benefits fund or to a hospital benefits fund that are not in accordance with an approval under this Act or are contrary to a direction under this Act. 
The Australian Industrial Court has jurisdiction to grant an injunction, including a mandatory injunction, in respect of conduct of an organization that is or would be unlawful under this section and that jurisdiction may be exercised on application by Australia or any person appearing to the Court to have a sufficient interest. '. 
We have had a most extraordinary performance tonight from my predecessor at the podium the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  I am afraid that in the past nobody told me that I should rush down to the House of Representatives to hear him speak, so this is the first time that I have had the pleasure of hearing him entertain us. I thought that perhaps at this late hour, as the honourable member for the Northern Territory, he would have thrown some light on some of the curious performances that we have seen coming from his colleagues with regard the entitlements of the Australian people to vote. I thought that as the member for the Northern Territory he might have been able to explain to us how it is that when the Opposition approaches the voting rights of those people who are entitled to a vote it says that their electorates should be gerrymandered, and when it comes to the voting entitlements of those people who are not entitled to vote it says they should not be able to vote at all. Ultimately we found that  Mr Calder  indicated an intention to cross the floor to vote with us, but not without a valiant effort to get himself thrown out of this Joint Sitting by deliberately provoking the Chair, by deliberately acting in such a way that in any other sitting, if we had not had such a tolerant Acting  Chairman  as you,  Sir, he  would have been ejected from the chamber. Of course, he wanted to be ejected from the chamber so that he would not have to cross the floor and vote with us and go back and answer to the people of the Northern Territory as to why he had repeatedly betrayed them in the Parliament. 
What a sorry performance we have seen tonight. But certainly it was only one of a series of very sorry performances that we have been watching all today. Perhaps in the past it could have been argued that there was something wrong with having the proceedings of Parliament televised. But if ever anyone could be open to the conviction that Parliament ought to be the subject of non-stop televising, today's proceedings would have justified such an argument. Today the Australian people have had revealed to them a series of spokesmen from the Opposition parties whose main goal during the whole of this Joint Sitting has been to deprive the Australian people of the right democratically to elect the Parliament of this country. That has been the whole purpose of their actions today. 
Let us have a look at the proposals that are before the Joint Sitting. These proposals are that there should be 2 senators from each of the Territories of Australia. What advantage is there for the Australian Labor Party in saying that there should be 2 senators from each of the Territories? Are members of the Opposition parties being so complimentary to us as to say that the Australian Labor Party will receive over twothirds of the votes in each of those Territories and thus have its senators elected? Are they saying that we shall therefore obtain a majority by the means of giving the franchise to our fellow Australians who live inside these Territories? Do they say that over two-thirds of the people in these 2 Territories support the Australian Labor Party? If that is what they want to say then let them stand up and say it. 
If that is not what they say, then what are they saying? Are they saying that the Territories should continue to be unrepresented in the Parliament? The people of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory are affected by the laws which are made by this Parliament just as much as any Australian citizen living in any of the 6 States. We believe that it is intolerable that any Australian, wherever he may live, whatever his ethnic origin or whatever his educational standard may be, should be deprived of the right to vote in the election of the Parliament of the Australian people. This is what is being resisted today by the Opposition. 
I dare say that members of the Opposition could be suspicious about these matters. I suppose that they think that somebody will play a dirty trick on them because of their experience in playing dirty tricks themselves. Did they not repeatedly inside the Parliament vote against the member for the Northern Territory having a vote in the House of Representatives until the Country Party gained a member from the Northern Territory? Did they not down the years, when the Australian Labor Party proposed that a vote should be given to the Northern Territory, deny the right of the people of the Northern Territory to have a vote? They did this, not because of any democratic principle, but because all they believe in is the gerrymander. They operate under the principle of government by gerrymander. Like all people whose moral sensibilities are blunted they are unable to believe that anyone else has any motives other than the base motives which they themselves have. 
What conceivable difference can it make from a party point of view if there are 2 senators from each Territory elected on the basis of proportional representation? Does not reason suggest that there will be one member in support of the Government and one member in support of the Opposition elected from each of these Territories? Does anyone have any arguments to suggest that we shall gain more than one senator from either of those Territories? If so, it is only because the support for our Party in those Territories must be so overwhelming. I should think that if  Mr Calder  were to be seen frequently by the people of the Northern Territory on whatever television sets there are in the Northern Territory, perhaps he would be correct and we would have 2 senators from the Northern Territory. 
What sort of arguments have we heard today from some of the constitutional sages from the other side of the Parliament?  Senator Greenwood  told us with great indignation how shocking it is that the House of Representatives should have made decisions about the constitution of the Senate when the Senate did not want to have its membership changed in this way. He told us how deplorable it is that a Labor dominated House of Representatives should dare to offer its opinion on the membership of the Senate. I am afraid that I have not heard that argument from Opposition senators when the composition of the House of Representatives has been debated in the Senate. I have not heard  Senator Greenwood  and his colleagues say: 'If the House of 
Representatives has decided that there should be an electoral Bill of a certain type, because we belong to another House we shall abstain from voting on this matter or we shall do what the House of Representatives wants'. What is the point that  Senator Greenwood  was making? It is that the House of Representatives is not entitled to deliberate on the composition of the Senate but the Senate is entitled to deliberate on the composition of the House of Representatives. Although he did not say it, what is the reason? The reason is that in the House of government the Australian Labor Party has a majority to which it was elected, and in the Senate a combination of misfit organisations holds a majority owing to the flukes of preferential voting. 

 Senator Greenwood also told us that we would have to be very wary because the Labor Party would engage in bribery and all sorts of public works would be introduced into the Northern Territory apparently to gain 2 senators. I must say that as a senator from Western Australia I find it mind boggling to hear somebody from the Opposition benches talking about the bribery of electors; to hear the people who gave us the Ord scheme talking about bribery of electors when we well know that the only purpose of the introduction of schemes of that type was to bribe certain electors in Western Australia some years ago when the previous Government was in well deserved difficulties. 
The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  who has a great reverence for deceased politicians, was at great pains to describe to us what the founding fathers had done for us. I have always been a little mystified as to why the fact that someone was elected to Parliament in 1 899 makes him more sagacious than somebody who was elected to Parliament in 1974. Apparently, if we follow through the reasoning of the honourable member for Moreton, all wisdom ended with the Neanderthal man because anything that came after that is a shocking modern device cooked up by left wing socialists. The Australian Labor Party, whatever it may not be, is at least post-Neanderthal. We are unlike the Piltdown men opposite. I call them Piltdown men advisedly, because it may be remembered that the Piltdown man was constructed artificially. 
The Piltdown men opposite would tell us that, because a group of politicians amongst whom the Labor Movement was almost totally unrepresented, if not totally unrepresented, almost 80 years ago decided to devise a Constitution whose purpose would be to preserve the property rights of the wealthy citizens of that day, to withstand the scourge of the Peasants' 
Revolt of which they had recently read and to allay the fear that the events of the last 500 years might catch up with them, a Constitution of that type is with us forevermore and is never to be departed from, like the Three Estates of King Louis XVI. We reject that also. We believe that the Constitution of Australia has to be changed in order to move with the changes in the circumstances of our country. Since the foundation of this Commonwealth the political Labor movement has developed, giving representation to people who were not represented when the Constitution which we now have inflicted upon us was first presented to an unsuspecting group of colonials. 
The honourable member for Moreton has said that somehow or other, by some extraordinary circumstance, although the population of the Australian Capital Territory is 4 times that of the Northern Territory the Australian Capital Territory will have the same number of senators as the Northern Territory will have. I do not want to labour old points but surely, if population is the basis on which the honourable member for Moreton and his friends approach representation in the Senate, then they would have moved long ago to see that the representation of New South Wales and Tasmania respectively was adjusted. But no, that is sacred. If this doctrine which was handed down in 1895 by men with long white beards that all States should have equal representation is such a sacred doctrine, then surely the Opposition would say that all Territories ought to have equal representation too. 
In fact, we are the people who are in keeping with the founding fathers, not the honourable member for Moreton. But what have we done? What has the Australian Labor Party tried to do? We have tried to see that the people of these 2 Territories are represented in both Houses of the Australian Parliament. That is precisely it. We have done it on a basis whereby there will be 2 representatives from each of these 2 Territories. They are not States, but we believe they are entitled to have some representation. The representation from each of those Territories should be equal. We say that each of those 2 senators should be elected by the proportional representation system on each occasion that the elections take place. This is an inbuilt safeguard against any form of gerrymander. One might say that it is an inbuilt safeguard against any one party gaining both those seats. But why does the Opposition oppose the Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill? The Opposition opposes the Bill because it hates the very thought of universal franchise. It is still fighting the wars which were fought before the first Reform Bill of 1832. 1 see that the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  has apparently heard of it, but by the bemused faces of most of his colleagues apparently they have not yet caught up with it. I tell them that the reason they oppose this Bill tonight is for same reason that they have opposed the other proposals which have been before the Parliament the purpose of which was to see that, as far as was practical, there would be equal representation of each constituency in the House of Representatives. 
The Opposition hates the very thought of equal representation of the Australian people in the same way that it hates the thought of any representation of the Australian people. But, after all, in many respects the members on the Opposition side are quite correct in loathing democratic government. Their loathing of democratic government is not just some mere quirk, some mere eccentricity on their part. The reason they loathe democratic government is that they know that ultimately with democratic government the obsolete ideas and the selfish interests which they represent in this place will be swept away. We support democratic government because we believe that this country should be governed by the people . We believe that democratic government is the only form of government which the Australian people are entitled to have. Democratic government is a goal for which we shall continue to struggle despite all of the opposition of the moth-eaten, moss-backed reactionaries sitting on the left of the  Chairman  of this Joint Sitting. 
We have had a most extraordinary performance tonight from my predecessor at the podium the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  I am afraid that in the past nobody told me that I should rush down to the House of Representatives to hear him speak, so this is the first time that I have had the pleasure of hearing him entertain us. I thought that perhaps at this late hour, as the honourable member for the Northern Territory, he would have thrown some light on some of the curious performances that we have seen coming from his colleagues with regard the entitlements of the Australian people to vote. I thought that as the member for the Northern Territory he might have been able to explain to us how it is that when the Opposition approaches the voting rights of those people who are entitled to a vote it says that their electorates should be gerrymandered, and when it comes to the voting entitlements of those people who are not entitled to vote it says they should not be able to vote at all. Ultimately we found that  Mr Calder  indicated an intention to cross the floor to vote with us, but not without a valiant effort to get himself thrown out of this Joint Sitting by deliberately provoking the Chair, by deliberately acting in such a way that in any other sitting, if we had not had such a tolerant Acting  Chairman  as you,  Sir, he  would have been ejected from the chamber. Of course, he wanted to be ejected from the chamber so that he would not have to cross the floor and vote with us and go back and answer to the people of the Northern Territory as to why he had repeatedly betrayed them in the Parliament. 
What a sorry performance we have seen tonight. But certainly it was only one of a series of very sorry performances that we have been watching all today. Perhaps in the past it could have been argued that there was something wrong with having the proceedings of Parliament televised. But if ever anyone could be open to the conviction that Parliament ought to be the subject of non-stop televising, today's proceedings would have justified such an argument. Today the Australian people have had revealed to them a series of spokesmen from the Opposition parties whose main goal during the whole of this Joint Sitting has been to deprive the Australian people of the right democratically to elect the Parliament of this country. That has been the whole purpose of their actions today. 
Let us have a look at the proposals that are before the Joint Sitting. These proposals are that there should be 2 senators from each of the Territories of Australia. What advantage is there for the Australian Labor Party in saying that there should be 2 senators from each of the Territories? Are members of the Opposition parties being so complimentary to us as to say that the Australian Labor Party will receive over twothirds of the votes in each of those Territories and thus have its senators elected? Are they saying that we shall therefore obtain a majority by the means of giving the franchise to our fellow Australians who live inside these Territories? Do they say that over two-thirds of the people in these 2 Territories support the Australian Labor Party? If that is what they want to say then let them stand up and say it. 
If that is not what they say, then what are they saying? Are they saying that the Territories should continue to be unrepresented in the Parliament? The people of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory are affected by the laws which are made by this Parliament just as much as any Australian citizen living in any of the 6 States. We believe that it is intolerable that any Australian, wherever he may live, whatever his ethnic origin or whatever his educational standard may be, should be deprived of the right to vote in the election of the Parliament of the Australian people. This is what is being resisted today by the Opposition. 
I dare say that members of the Opposition could be suspicious about these matters. I suppose that they think that somebody will play a dirty trick on them because of their experience in playing dirty tricks themselves. Did they not repeatedly inside the Parliament vote against the member for the Northern Territory having a vote in the House of Representatives until the Country Party gained a member from the Northern Territory? Did they not down the years, when the Australian Labor Party proposed that a vote should be given to the Northern Territory, deny the right of the people of the Northern Territory to have a vote? They did this, not because of any democratic principle, but because all they believe in is the gerrymander. They operate under the principle of government by gerrymander. Like all people whose moral sensibilities are blunted they are unable to believe that anyone else has any motives other than the base motives which they themselves have. 
What conceivable difference can it make from a party point of view if there are 2 senators from each Territory elected on the basis of proportional representation? Does not reason suggest that there will be one member in support of the Government and one member in support of the Opposition elected from each of these Territories? Does anyone have any arguments to suggest that we shall gain more than one senator from either of those Territories? If so, it is only because the support for our Party in those Territories must be so overwhelming. I should think that if  Mr Calder  were to be seen frequently by the people of the Northern Territory on whatever television sets there are in the Northern Territory, perhaps he would be correct and we would have 2 senators from the Northern Territory. 
What sort of arguments have we heard today from some of the constitutional sages from the other side of the Parliament?  Senator Greenwood  told us with great indignation how shocking it is that the House of Representatives should have made decisions about the constitution of the Senate when the Senate did not want to have its membership changed in this way. He told us how deplorable it is that a Labor dominated House of Representatives should dare to offer its opinion on the membership of the Senate. I am afraid that I have not heard that argument from Opposition senators when the composition of the House of Representatives has been debated in the Senate. I have not heard  Senator Greenwood  and his colleagues say: 'If the House of 
Representatives has decided that there should be an electoral Bill of a certain type, because we belong to another House we shall abstain from voting on this matter or we shall do what the House of Representatives wants'. What is the point that  Senator Greenwood  was making? It is that the House of Representatives is not entitled to deliberate on the composition of the Senate but the Senate is entitled to deliberate on the composition of the House of Representatives. Although he did not say it, what is the reason? The reason is that in the House of government the Australian Labor Party has a majority to which it was elected, and in the Senate a combination of misfit organisations holds a majority owing to the flukes of preferential voting. 

 Senator Greenwood also told us that we would have to be very wary because the Labor Party would engage in bribery and all sorts of public works would be introduced into the Northern Territory apparently to gain 2 senators. I must say that as a senator from Western Australia I find it mind boggling to hear somebody from the Opposition benches talking about the bribery of electors; to hear the people who gave us the Ord scheme talking about bribery of electors when we well know that the only purpose of the introduction of schemes of that type was to bribe certain electors in Western Australia some years ago when the previous Government was in well deserved difficulties. 
The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  who has a great reverence for deceased politicians, was at great pains to describe to us what the founding fathers had done for us. I have always been a little mystified as to why the fact that someone was elected to Parliament in 1899 makes him more sagacious than somebody who was elected to Parliament in 1974. Apparently, if we follow through the reasoning of the honourable member for Moreton, all wisdom ended with the Neanderthal man because anything that came after that is a shocking modern device cooked up by left wing socialists. The Australian Labor Party, whatever it may not be, is at least post-Neanderthal. We are unlike the Piltdown men opposite. I call them Piltdown men advisedly, because it may be remembered that the Piltdown man was constructed artificially. 
The Piltdown men opposite would tell us that, because a group of politicians amongst whom the Labor Movement was almost totally unrepresented, if not totally unrepresented, almost 80 years ago decided to devise a Constitution whose purpose would be to preserve the property rights of the wealthy citizens of that day, to withstand the scourge of the Peasants' 
Revolt of which they had recently read and to allay the fear that the events of the last 500 years might catch up with them, a Constitution of that type is with us forevermore and is never to be departed from, like the Three Estates of King Louis XVI, We reject that also. We believe that the Constitution of Australia has to be changed in order to move with the changes in the circumstances of our country. Since the foundation of this Commonwealth the political Labor movement has developed, giving representation to people who were not represented when the Constitution which we now have inflicted upon us was first presented to an unsuspecting group of colonials. 
The honourable member for Moreton has said that somehow or other, by some extraordinary circumstance, although the population of the Australian Capital Territory is 4 times that of the Northern Territory the Australian Capital Territory will have the same number of senators as the Northern Territory will have. I do not want to labour old points but surely, if population is the basis on which the honourable member for Moreton and his friends approach representation in the Senate, then they would have moved long ago to see that the representation of New South Wales and Tasmania respectively was adjusted. But no, that is sacred. If this doctrine which was handed down in 1895 by men with long white beards that all States should have equal representation is such a sacred doctrine, then surely the Opposition would say that all Territories ought to have equal representation too. 
In fact, we are the people who are in keeping with the founding fathers, not the honourable member for Moreton. But what have we done? What has the Australian Labor Party tried to do? We have tried to see that the people of these 2 Territories are represented in both Houses of the Australian Parliament. That is precisely it. We have done it on a basis whereby there will be 2 representatives from each of these 2 Territories. They are not States, but we believe they are entitled to have some representation. The representation from each of those Territories should be equal. We say that each of those 2 senators should be elected by the proportional representation system on each occasion that the elections take place. This is an inbuilt safeguard against any form of gerrymander. One might say that it is an inbuilt safeguard against any one party gaining both those seats. But why does the Opposition oppose the Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill? The Opposition opposes the Bill because it hates the very thought of universal franchise. It is still fighting the wars which were fought before the first Reform Bill of 1832. 1 see that the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  has apparently heard of it, but by the bemused faces of most of his colleagues apparently they have not yet caught up with it. I tell them that the reason they oppose this Bill tonight is for same reason that they have opposed the other proposals which have been before the Parliament the purpose of which was to see that, as far as was practical, there would be equal representation of each constituency in the House of Representatives. 
The Opposition hates the very thought of equal representation of the Australian people in the same way that it hates the thought of any representation of the Australian people. But, after all, in many respects the members on the Opposition side are quite correct in loathing democratic government. Their loathing of democratic government is not just some mere quirk, some mere eccentricity on their part. The reason they loathe democratic government is that they know that ultimately with democratic government the obsolete ideas and the selfish interests which they represent in this place will be swept away. We support democratic government because we believe that this country should be governed by the people . We believe that democratic government is the only form of government which the Australian people are entitled to have. Democratic government is a goal for which we shall continue to struggle despite all of the opposition of the moth-eaten, moss-backed reactionaries sitting on the left of the  Chairman  of this Joint Sitting. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Government is not contemplating any provision specifically for detecting cancer in women at the workshop level. 
However, a report proposing an occupational medicine service to provide emergency, counselling, screening, preventive and rehabilitative services for all Australian government employees has been prepared for me with Cabinet approval and its implementation is under consideration. This will be a landmark in occupational medicine and an example to other employers of community service and enlightened self-interest. 
Australian High Commission in Suva: Voting Facilities  (Question No.  4) 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 

 Dr Jarvis did resign from the Health Centre recently to return to private practice. He was unable to find suitable surgery accommodation in Latham but the Government will provide temporary accommodation for him in the adjacent suburb of Macgregor until the opening of the Kippax Centre. 
3 )  Dr Jarvis  has indicated that whilst he was certain that the Health Centre concept offered an enlarged dimension for family medicine, he felt personally that he would be happier working in a private capacity. No other reasons for his resignation were given to the  Chairman  of the Interim Committee of the Capital Territory Health Commission. 
This reason was not given to the  Chairman  of the Interim Committee of the Capital Territory Health Commission either in writing or verbally. 
The Minister for Social Security hasprovided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) A letter of intent for the supply, delivery and installation of one model 370/ 168 computer system for the Department of Social Security was issued on 11 December 1973 by the Australian Government Stores and Tender Board. No undertaking was given to IBM Australia Ltd that a second 168 computer system would be ordered in the future. A sum of $5.4m for one IBM 168 computer system was included in the sum of $ 1 3.3m for the purchase of computing equipment which was appropriated by Parliament in Appropriation Act No.2 1973-74Division945,Item2-0l. 
Appropriation Bill No. 2 of 1973-74 was passed on 29 November 1973. 
3 ) Open tenders were not called for the supply of the IBM 370/168 computer. The order was placed with IBM Australia on the basis of a Certificate of Inexpediency issued under Treasury Regulations by the Australian Government Stores and Tender Board. 
From Press reports I have learnt that 2 representatives of the Papua New Guinea branch of the Returned Services League are at present in Australia. It has been reported that they have come here to seek benefits for death and injury suffered by indigenous inhabitants of Papua New Guinea who served with the Australian armed forces during the Second World War. I am a little puzzled as to the nature of this visit. They have neither been in touch with me nor endeavoured to get in touch with me as far as I know since they came to 
Australia. As Minister for Repatriation and Compensation I am in close contact with the National Executive of the Returned Services League. However, at no stage has the national office of the League in any way indicated to me that these people from the Papua New Guinea branch are in Australia. I am not quite clear as to what they are really asking for, because as I understand it they already have the benefits which they say they are seeking. The War Cabinet during the Second World War made provision for the payment of compensation to Papua New Guinea servicemen or their dependants in the case of injury or death. Following the war the repatriation benefits generally were extended to indigenous inhabitants of Papua New Guinea. This is what they are now claiming, or apparently are claiming, they wish to obtain. 
Provision is being made under existing legislation for the continuation of the payment of these repatriation benefits after Papua New Guinea obtains independence. The answer to the question is that I do not really know what it is that I or the Government could be expected to do. I can only assume that if there is a delegation from the branch in Australia it will try to see me in due course. But until the members of the delegation make some effort to see me, it is very difficult for me to say what they want. 

 - Mr President, if  Senator Sim  wishes to speak, the Government does not intend to stand in his way. As far as the Government is concerned, there was no arrangement. A certain proposition was put by  Senator Withers  in a conversation with  Senator Hall.  A matter having been raised- we believe that it is a serious matter because of the manner in which it has been raised- the Government believes that it is entitled to deal with the matter which has been moved by  Senator Durack  and the Government intends to deal with the matter. 
-Apparently the Opposition does not want to debate the matter. I thought that it was a matter of great urgency which had to be debated. Apparently  Senator Webster  does not want to hear about it now. I thought he was so consumed with his newly found passion for civil liberties which we had never detected previously that like St Paul on the road to Tarsus - 
I beg your pardon, the road to Damascus. I have been confused by the references to the Reverend somebody, not the Reverend  Mr somebody,  which we have been hearing this evening. With the enthusiasm which St Paul apparently found on the road to Damascus, I would have thought that  Senator Webster  would have been anxious to hear some explanation of what the Government has done about this matter, which the Government has taken very seriously indeed. I may say,  Mr President,  that I spent a large part of last night with the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  and officials of the Department of Foreign Affairs trying to work out what would be the best way to handling a very difficult problem with which we had been presented. I must say that if the Opposition had really been concerned about the fate of this man and had not been concerned only with making cheap political capital at his expense it would have come to the Government and offered suggestions as to how it believed this matter should have been handled instead of waiting to go off at the last moment in order to try to discredit the Government and to place this man in a bad situation as far as his own country is concerned. But did we hear one suggestion from the members of the Opposition? We did not hear one suggestion from any member of the Opposition. The reason that I became involved in this matter - 

 - Senator Withers now finds it funny. We know how seriously he takes this matter. He finds it funny now because Opposition senators have found it funny all the way along. They thought this was an opportunity to discredit the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Government. They could not care less about the fate of  Mr Ermolenko  or about the relations between this country and the Soviet Union. 
Yes, we are concerned about our relations with the Soviet Union and we are concerned about the fate of  Mr Ermolenko.  The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  finds this matter so hilarious. If only this debate were being televised so that the people could hear some of the righteous indignation which has been offered by the Opposition tonight and see the big grin on the Leader of the Opposition's face and hear the chuckles coming from the Leader of the Opposition, who said he was so concerned about this matter, they might really appreciate the real role of the Opposition on this question. However, how did this matter arise and how was I brought into it? I was brought into it because I was approached by members of the Australian Labor Party who not only were among those who played the first role in trying to prevent  Mr Ermolenko  being forcibly removed from this country, if that were the case, - 
If that were the case- and I believe it may well be the case. 
-That was a brilliant interjection. The people who initially took the action on this matter are members of the Australian Labor Party.  Mr Cowles  of the Transport Workers Union, to whom  Senator Durack  has referred churlishly this evening, was one of the people who organised the major demonstration at the Perth airport last night. It was  Mr Cowles  and the Transport Workers Union who decided to declare black any plane leaving Australia which might have been carrying  Mr Ermolenko.  But I gather that, despite that,  Senator Durack  would still think this was some part of some subtle Russian plot to which  Mr Cowles  and the Transport Workers Union were parties.  Senator Willesee  is correct in what he says for, as it turned out, British Airways took the position that the visas for Singapore which were in the possession of  Mr Ermolenko  were invalid. But had that not been the case it would have been  Mr Cowles  and the Transport Workers Union who would have prevented  Mr Ermolenko  from leaving this country, not the grinning  Senator Withers  or  Senator Durack  or any of those others who have been speaking tonight. 
The issue which was raised was of great importance to members of the Australian Labor Party. There were other people involved as well, but the people who played the leading role in this were members of the Transport Workers' Union and the secretary of the union,  Mr Cowles,  who is a member of the Australian Labor Party. One of the leaders- I do not know what his title is- of the Guild of Undergraduates of the University of Western Australia, who is a member of the State Executive of the Labor Party, was one of those who issued instructions that proceedings be taken to prevent  Mr Ermolenko  being taken out of Australia. The solicitor who acted for Amnesty International is a member of the Australian Labor Party. The Secretary of the World Council of Churches, whose presence apparently puzzled  Senator Durack,  is also a member of the Australian Labor Party. 
He is. I am glad that  Senator Webster  has bet that he is. For once he would win a bet. They are the people who raised this matter. They were concerned about the fact that there could be a deprivation of this man's civil liberties. My record on civil liberties is a perfectly clear one. I have objected to American intervention in Vietnam and Soviet intervention in Czechoslovakia. I believe that civil liberties are indivisable. I have always taken that position. I am not going to apologise to anybody. Nobody has heard me defending any Soviet denial of civil liberties to anyone and I am not going to do it tonight. I am not going to allow  Senator Durack  or anybody else to say that I ever have because I have never supported in any way, nor has my Party, the deprivation of civil liberties in any country. We have not been selective about it. 

 - Senator Webster says 'haw, haw'. I would like to hear what contribution the grinning  Senator Webster  has to make to the debate. He finds the fate of  Mr Ermolenko  a matter for such hilarity and humour. The fate of  Mr Ermolenko  is just another joke to him. He could not care less about his fate. This matter was raised by members of the Australian Labor Party because they believed that there had been very clear instances in the past of deprivation of civil liberties by the Soviet Union and because they believed, in the light of the statements which reportedly had been made by and apparently correctly recorded of  Mr Ermolenko  to various people in Perth- the Sub- Warden of St George's College and a prominent figure in the musical life of Victoria who happened to be in Perth and whose name I think is  Mr Badger-that  he had expressed some reluctance to go back to the Soviet Union. A statement was made subsequently in which apparently he said that he did want to go back there. We are not psychic. 
I was with  Senator Willesee  last night when this matter was being discussed. I must confess that neither of us had heard of  Mr Ermolenko  before that moment. We were presented with the position where somebody had said that he wanted to leave and somebody else said that he did not want to leave. So what did  Senator Willesee  try to do? He tried to set up a situation whereby everybody, so far as was humanly possible, could be satisfied that the man was making a decision of his own free will and so that we were not a party to the shanghai-ing of somebody to this country. It was arranged that people should be present at a meeting with him and that they should be representatives of the 2 unions which had been most actively involved in the issue- the Transport Workers Union and the Clerks Union- the 2 lawyers who had been instructed to act in the matter, one representing Amnesty International and one representing the Guild of Undergraduates, and that a Liberal Party Minister in the State Government,  Mr Grayden,  should be present also. It was decided that the Chief Medical Officer in Western Australia also should be present because some allegations had been made by somebody that  Mr Ermolenko  had been subjected to drugging or sedation, or whatever it was, and  Senator Willesee  wanted to take the added precaution of having the most responsible medical officer in Western Australia present so that if some drugging or something like that had taken place he would be able to report on it. What on earth else could we do? 
It may well be that  Senator Greenwood  is correct and that possibly  Mr Badger  and  Mr Johnson  should have been present. I am prepared to accept responsibility, along with  Senator Willesee,  for their not being there because we discussed the matter at the time and I must confess that it did not occur to me that they should be there. It is not that the matter was raised with  Mr Badger  and  Mr Johnson.  It was not that  Senator Durack, Senator Greenwood  or  Senator Withers  came along to us and said, 'I have a useful suggestion. How about having  Mr Badger  or  Mr Johnson  there', and we rejected it. Frankly it did not occur to us. It may well be that it would have been a good idea if they had been there. But is it suggested that the man is in such a psychotic condition that after having been tested to determine whether he had been drugged and it was found that he has not been drugged, and after having present a Liberal Party member of Parliament, a right wing union official, a left wing union official and a representative of the Australian Journalists Association he is still unable to answer the question? I fail to see- maybe I am completely missing the thread- what  Mr Badger  and  Mr Johnson  would have been able to add that was not already provided by those who were present. 
-Senator Greenwood, who is an authority on the subject, said that they were his friends. I dare say that they were his friends. But is  Senator Greenwood  suggesting that  Mr Grayden  was hostile, that the 2 unions which had caused the stoppage at the airport were hostile or that the Commonwealth Medical Officer was hostile? Maybe  Mr Badger  and  Mr Johnson  should have been there. If there is to be condemnation, I will accept it. Yes,  Mr Badger  and  Mr Johnson  would have added to the lustre of the occasion. 
The fact is that we did omit to invite  Mr Badger  and  Mr Johnson,  but we did invite everyone else of whom we conceivably could think. I can assure the Senate that the arrangements were made in completely good faith. We tried to think of everybody who conceivably could attend the meeting, who could have some interest in the matter or who had people who were associated with the question, without at the same time making the meeting too large. But, as it happened, the meeting did become too large, for whatever reason. 

 - Mr Garland went and apparently 15 journalists also turned up. I do not think that  Senator Durack  is really interested in seriously finding out what we tried to do. But this is what we did. Apparently, for whatever reason,  Mr Ermolenko  said that he would not attend the meeting. I do not know why  Mr Ermolenko  did not attend the meeting with these people. Apparently it is suggested that in some way or other he is being unduly influenced, improperly influenced or stood over by Professor Kabalevsky and  Mr Alexandroff. 
I know of Professor Kabalevsky only through his music. He certainly is one of the leading Russian composers. I suppose he is one of the leading composers in the world. He was a very distinguished guest in this country. I think that one of the incidental tragedies of this whole matter has been the unfortunate conclusion to the congress of the International Society of Music Education which took place in Perth. It was a very great achievement ibr Australia for the congress to have been held in Perth and it is something of which the people of Perth can be very proud. The holding of the congress in Perth was a very considerable advance in the music and cultural life of this country, It certainly is very unfortunate that this is the note on which it has ended. But the fact of the matter is that Professor Kabalevsky is an extremely distinguished guest in this country. I have heard all sorts of innuendos, allegations and implied allegations about Professor Kabalevsky. But I have not heard or seen one shred of evidence to support them.  Senator Greenwood  probably has an Australian Security Intelligence Organisation file on Professor Kabalevsky written by some musical snooper. But the fact is that there is not one shred of evidence that in any way Professor Kabalevsky has been behaving improperly. 
What are we to say if we carry out the terms of the motion before us? Is it being said that we are forcibly to separate  Mr Ermolenko  from Professor Kabalevsky and  Mr Alexandroff,  the cultural attache at the Soviet Embassy who happens to be in Perth at present? Is it said that we should forcibly separate them? 

 - Senator Sim says: 'If necessary'. I appreciate  Senator Sim's  sincerity and I do not believe that he is trying to make cheap capital out of this matter. But how are we to carry out the terms of the motion? Can  Senator Sim  envisage the possibilities of what we are doing?  Mr Ermolenko,  Professor Kabalevsky,  Mr Alexandroff  from the Soviet Embassy and various others including  Mr Henne,  the Foreign Affairs officer in Perth are in a room in the Hotel Parmelia in Perth. They are told that a meeting is going on downstairs which  Mr Ermolenko  is invited to attend so that people who are concerned on his behalf- admittedly  Mr Johnson  and  Mr Badger  were not there- and who have shown quite positively that they are very concerned can be told what he wants to do.  Mr Ermolenko  says that he does not want to go down and talk to them; that apparently he wants to stay with either or both Professor Kabalevsky and  Mr Alexandroff. 
Are we supposed to send police in there and drag him down? Are we supposed to send police in there and evict Professor Kabalevsky and  Mr Alexandroff  from the room? What can we do about it? Surely all we can do is to go to the man and say: 'There are people down here who are interested in your case, who have understood that you cannot leave the country and who want to discuss the matter with you'. That is all we can do, is it not? Can anyone explain to me what else we can do? We cannot arrest Professor Kabalevsky. 

 - Senator Sir Magnus Cormack says: 'Try to stop him from being sent to the Gulag Archipelago'. I would not want to see somebody sent to the Gulag Archipelago, but would I suggest how we stop him from being sent to the Gulag Archipeligo if that is where he voluntarily wants to go? What are we supposed to do if we go into the room the three of them are there and  Mr Ermolenko  says that he does not want to leave the other two and go down to the meeting? I am open to correction, and someone might explain to me what we are supposed to do about it, but I am completely at a loss to know what to do. All I can say about this matter is that for many hours last night  Senator Willesee  and I and various others tried to think of the best possible means that we could provide so that not only  Mr Ermolenko  would have an opportunity of making a free and open decision as to whether he wanted to stay or whether he wanted to leave but also all those concerned would be aware of it Does anybody think that  Senator Willesee  and I are trying to curry favour with the Democratic Labor Party secretary of the Federated Clerks Union whom we wanted to be present; that we have some debts of gratitude that we have to pay to  Mr Grayden,  a Liberal Minister in Western Australia? It was our suggestion that they ought to be there. What more could we do? We believe we have done as much as we can. At the moment the information apparently is that the actions which are before the Supreme Court have not been withdrawn and that apparently the Federated Clerks Union has continued to impose a ban on the flight which is leaving Australia, so it appears that it will not be until at the earliest tomorrow that the party will be leaving Australia. 
-Senator Durack says that the Clerks Union took the effective action. He is still churlishly saying that Cowles and the 
Transport Workers Union had nothing to do with it. Is that the point he is trying to make? If that is the point he is trying to make, that Cowles and the Transport Workers Union had nothing to do with it, I suggest that that is just not true. I challenge  Senator Durack  to say that it is true. That seems to be a clear implication. He is so used to wallowing in the mire and he is so used to the stereotypes of the little old ladies in white tennis shoes that he thinks Cowles must be a Russian spy because he leads an industrial action and he refuses to believe that Cowles has taken, at cost to his own members, who have already been subject to all sorts of scurrilous abuse, action to prevent a man, who as it would appear, is perhaps being involuntarily taken back to a country to which he did not want to go. The position at the moment is that the man is still in Australia. 
We believe, and we believe it quite unashamedly, that there are two important factors involved in this matter. The first, and for my own case I believe it is the more important, is to decide whether or not  Mr Ermolenko  does wish to leave this country or not. Certainly the Soviet Union is a country which is singularly short on civil liberties. It is not a country to which I as a member of any government would want to be a party in forcibly sending someone, although at the same time I believe it would be totally improper to prevent somebody from going there if he wanted to return there. But the other issue is the question of our relations with the Soviet Union. They are important. I believe in this case that is a subordinate matter to the matter of this individual's freedom, but it is not an unimportant matter; it is not a joke; it is not a laughing matter. Certainly we believe that by offering the facilities to  Mr Ermolenko  which we did offer we did everything that we can conceivably do to see that he is given the opportunity of making up his own mind. But at the same time, if we were to do the sorts of things which are clearly implied if not expressly stated in the tabled documents, that somehow we should forcibly separate this man from Professor Kabalevsky - 
-That may well have been tried.  Senator Wright  asks why we do not try a request that they disembarrass the man by withdrawing. I do not know whether it was put to them in that form. I was not there. I agree with  Senator Wright  that this is a sensible suggestion. But certainly I think it is implicit in what happened that  Mr Ermolenko  was invited to go down and meet the interested persons concerned. To the best of my knowledge Professor Kabalevsky and  Mr Alexandroff  were not invited to go down and meet  Mr Ermolenko.  The Minister for Foreign Affairs assures me of this. Although I think it is a sensible proposition that  Senator Wright  has put forward, it seems to me that surely one is doing almost that in asking  Mr Ermolenko  to go down separately from the other 2 persons, because they were not invited down. If he had volunteered to come down, obviously they would have been out of his presence. 
The position is that the man will still be here for some more hours. The Government is continuing to try to find out what it is that he actually wants to do. The motion which is before the Senate - 
-Senator Poyser says that it is a disgraceful motion. It is not one which is helpful to the man in question. It is quite callous about his feelings. If members of the Opposition believe the things which they say, and which I certainly believe in part, about the nature of the political system in the Soviet Union, they should realize that what they are doing is placing this man in a position which, if he does now go back into the Soviet Union after this sort of thing, the position will be very serious for him. 
There is a lack of freedom in the Soviet Union. I am not denying that. I am not here to defend the Soviet Union. I thought that if the honourable senator were aware of that he might have been rather cautious of jeopardising the position of somebody who lived within that society. That is what we have tried to do. It would be monstrous if a motion like this were carried. It does not help the situation in any way. The Government is prepared to listen to any propositions which are put forward on this question in a manner which is intended to be helpful. But we do not believe that either the maintenance of Australia's diplomatic relations with the Soviet Union, which are important, or even more importantly the preservation of this person's life and liberty are served in any way by this disgraceful motion which has been moved this evening. 

 -Senator DrakeBrockman is correct in saying that the salaries of the members of the Repatriation Boards are subject to a determination by the Remuneration Tribunal and that these officers have not received a wage increase since 1972. They are in a rather similar position to a lot of people, including ourselves. The fact of the matter is, of course, that a number of anomalies have developed because statutory officers have not been receiving increases while other persons who are not statutory officers or who are not subject to the Remuneration Tribunal have been receiving increases. We find in the Department of Repatriation and Compensation that relatively junior officers are receiving considerably higher salaries than people who have very great responsibilities. That is also the case with members of the Repatriation Boards. 
This situation has resulted from a decision taken by the Senate. Presumably those honourable senators who voted against the determinations of the Remuneration Tribunal knew what they were doing when they did so. As  Senator Drake-Brockman  would no doubt imagine, in recent days I have received communications from a great number of aggrieved officers of the Department of Repatriation and Compensation and members of various boards reminding me of what has happened. The Government is considering the matter at the present time. Beyond saying that there is very little that I can add. The decision was taken- I understand that it was taken with the support of the whole Parliamentthat the conditions of employment of those officers ought to be the subject of a determination by the Remuneration Tribunal. Having decided that, if the report of the Remuneration Tribunal is rejected by the Parliament there seems at first sight to be not a great deal that one can do. 
I am aware of the industrial dispute which has developed, as  Senator Grimes  said, at the Concord Repatriation General Hospital and the Lady Davidson Hospital, both in New South Wales. Nursing aides at both of these hospitals stopped work last Friday because their industrial organisation, the Hospital Employees Federation, was dissatisfied with the offer of increased pay made by the Public Service Board. The nursing aides at the Lady Davidson Hospital returned to work yesterday, but apparently they are going to resume their strike this afternoon. Approximately 300 nursing aides are involved in the dispute. They have received 3 increases in pay since March this year. The reason for their present dissatisfaction is that the pay offer which has been made to them by the Public Service Board falls short of the rates of pay for comparable work in other New South Wales public hospitals. 
The Board has offered to reconsider the matter if further submissions are made by the union, but the nursing aides have declined to return to work until a further offer is made by the Board. The dispute has now been referred to the Public Service Arbitrator in accordance with the Act. The dispute has been notified to him by the Repatriation Commission. We have asked for an early conference to be held to examine the situation. So far there has been no serious effect on the patients at either of these hospitals, and the sisters, nursing staff and medical staff are giving the necessary attention without any great difficulties having occurred. 
This matter has been considered by the Government. As  Senator 
Brown knows, pensions are payable to exservicemen and to their dependants for matters relating to incapacity or death. They are payable in any country where the recipient cares to live. Medical treatment for service related incapacity also is provided anywhere by the Department. Upon the attainment of independence by Papua New Guinea there will be no difference in the situation of people who fall into those categories. But there are other benefits, primarily service pensions and treatment for non-service related conditions, which may be obtained only by people who reside within Australia or an Australian Territory. If nothing were to be done about this matter, upon the attainment of independence by Papua New Guinea a number of people who are at present living there would lose that benefit because Papua New Guinea would cease to be a Territory. However, the Government recently considered the matter and decided that any person who received these latter benefits and who was living in Papua New Guinea at the date of independence would be deemed to continue to be a resident of Australia or of one of its Territories and would continue to receive the benefits. However, if somebody was not a resident of Papua New Guinea at the date of independence and subsequently went to live there, he would fall into the same category as persons who have moved out of Australia and its Territories to a foreign country and would not be in receipt of the latter type of benefit. 
I am afraid I did not quite follow the latter part of  Senator Sheil  's question. I do not know the number of Department of Repatriation and Compensation medical officers who have resigned. I hope that the honourable senator is not suggesting that my accession to office has prompted their resignations. If he puts the question on notice, I will see that a detailed answer is provided. 
I think that is a question about which I would need to consult my colleague, the Minister for Social Security. I ask  Senator Guilfoyle  to put the question on notice and I shall undertake to get an answer as quickly as possible. 
-My attention has been drawn to this advertisement. In fact, it was drawn to it by  Senator Lawrie  himself who was good enough to mention that he intended to ask me a question along these lines. The advertisements, which have been very prominent advertisements, on behalf of the Oak Insurance Ltd feature a slogan which says: 'Now you can receive $1,000 a month extra cash when you're in hospital'. Apparently some very generous offers indeed are made by the company to those who would care to subscribe. It was the subject of some critical comment in the Melbourne 'Age' on 6 August when  Mr Hutchins,  who is the managing director of that company, was interviewed. One of the things which emerged from the article in the Melbourne 'Age'- I cannot vouch for its authenticity but so far it has not been denied, as I understand it- was that the company would be spending $500,000 on advertising in the first year of its operations which would be approximately half the value of the premiums it would receive. As far as I know, the company is not registered as a hospital and medical benefits fund. So far I have been unable to verify whether or not the Australian Industry Development Corporation has subscribed any money to the company or has in any way assisted the company. 
The company recently changed its name from the Allstate Insurance Co. Ltd, and it was incorporated in the Australian Capital Territory in 1970. According to the information which I have been able to obtain the Union Insurance Group of the United States holds a 14.9 per cent interest in the company and we understand that it is reinsuring 95 per cent of the policies which are underwritten by the Oak Insurance Ltd. The other interests, apart from the Union Insurance Group of the United States, are Caravan and General Finance which holds 35 per cent of the shares, a  Mr Robert  Dillon who holds 15 per cent, CIL Brokerage which holds 10 per cent, Wyong Road Holdings Pty Ltd which holds 15. 1 per cent, and the Australian Asiatic Corporation which holds 10 per cent. 
No. I do not know the capital. 
-The information I have is that the people and corporations whose names I have just mentioned are the people who hold the shares in that company. If there are others, I have been unable to obtain that information. So far our information is that the people stated are the shareholders in the company. The responsibility for these matters is divided between a number of departments. The Department of Social Security naturally is concerned with it so far as it affects any claim for medical benefits. My Department also has some involvement in matters of insurance and compensation. The Treasurer is responsible for the administration and regulation of insurance companies. The Minister for Overseas Trade is responsible for the Australian Industry Development Corporation. I shall refer those parts of the question which relate to those other departments to the responsible Ministers and as soon as I have a reply I shall see that  Senator Lawrie  is informed. The only other thing I would say is that obviously a matter such as the matter that has been raised by  Senator Lawrie  is something which must cause all of us some concern. On the basis of the advertising it certainly seems that claims are being made which at least on the face of it may be rather difficult for the company to meet. I think  Senator Lawrie  was quite correct in drawing the attention of the Senate to this matter. 
-On 2 August the Minister for Social Security made a statement in which he said that supporting fathers who had to remain at home to care for children may be paid a special benefit by the Department of Social Security. I suppose that within our traditional male chauvinist society it did cause a little confusion that the Government was at least recognising the fact that there were men who were placed in the position, which has traditionally been ascribed to women, of having the responsibility of looking after children without the assistance of the mother of the children. Naturally criteria would have to be applied in the allowing of such assistance to the supporting fathers and clearly somebody within the Department of Social Security would have to have the responsibility of determining whether the claim were a legitimate claim and one which ought to be met by the Department. I do not know precisely what the criteria are for the awarding of such payments and it may in fact be rather difficult to neatly specify them, but I shall ask the Minister to let me have a detailed answer as to what needs to be established before such payments are made. I hope that I shall be able to obtain this before the Senate rises for the 2 weeks break or whatever it is we are going to have so that I will be able to inform the Senate. If this is not the case I will see that the information is provided to  Senator Martin. 
I do not have the information as to whether the Australian Industry Development Corporation has a holding in Escor or whether in turn Escor has a holding in Caravan and General which in turn has a holding in Oak Insurance. I shall obtain this information for the Senate. The only comment I would make at this stage is that although there has been criticism of the Oak Insurance company I would think it would be rather premature at this stage to condemn it as being a dishonest or fraudulent operation or indeed something which ought to be under suspicion. All that one really knows of the matter is that the claims perhaps at first sight seem a little extravagant and that some criticisms have been made by the Melbourne 'Age'. But I would not want it to be taken that either I or the Government is setting out to condemn the company. I shall obtain the information which is being sought by  Senator Baume. 
-Yes, I can do that since, as it happens, the figures are right at my fingertips this very moment. In 1964 the standard rate of pension was $1 1.50. As a result of the increase announced in July it is now $31, so that over this period - 
-Yes, $31. If one were to compare it, by way of a percentage, with the weekly wage for the years 1964 and 1974, one finds that it has increased from 22. 1 per cent in 1964 to 24.5 per cent in July 1974. That is the seasonally adjusted weekly wage. The weekly wage, as it is otherwise described, has increased from 2 1.8 per cent to 24.1 per cent- a very considerable increase under the Labor Government. Since 1972 the pension has been increased from $18.25 to $31. It means that with regard to the comparison with the seasonally adjusted weekly wage there has been an increase from 19.2 per cent to 24.5 per cent. When  Mr Snedden,  the present Leader of the Opposition, was Treasurer in 1971 the pension was at its lowest percentage of average weekly earnings since 1946. It was then 17.9 per cent. In the 1971 Budget he actually increased it- in a very generous gesture one must say- from 17.9 per cent to 18.9 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
I am aware that an undertaking of that kind was given by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development- I think I am correct in saying that- when he was in South Australia. Certainly the quality of water supplies is a question which the Government takes very seriously. I shall refer the honourable senator's question to my colleague the Minister for Health and ask him to take whatever appropriate action he needs to take in order to achieve the objectives which the Government outlined before the last Federal election. 
-Yes, I can. I have been in touch with the offices of the Treasurer and the Minister for Social Security, both of whom are concerned in this matter. I wish to refer to the specific questions which were asked by  Senator Lawrie  and also to a question from  Senator Baume. Senator Lawrie  asked whether the company was registered under the National Health Act. I think that I told him yesterday that I did not believe that it was. In fact, the company is not registered under the National Health Act and is not in any event obliged to be as it does not offer medical or hospital benefits as defined under that Act. However, it has complied with its legal obligations and particularly with the deposit provisions of the Insurance (Deposits) Act. 

 Senator Lawrie also asked whether the first 2 weeks in hospital were covered by the policies offered by this company. The policy offered by the company contains the following statements: 
Forthe purposes of calculating benefits, a period of confinement as a result of injury shall commence on the first day of such confinement, and a period of confinement as a result of sickness shall commence on the day of confinement as shown in The Policy Schedule. 
Our understanding is that in relation to sickness the policy schedule in all of the policies which have been so far issued has stated that such benefits begin on the first day of confinement and it is not foreseen that any other provision would be included in future policies. However, should any change take place, it would be highlighted in any advertisements. Existing policies could not be changed. 
Both  Senator Lawrie  and  Senator Baume  asked me whether the company was partly supported by funds from the Australian Industry Development Corporation. Now, as I think honourable senators would know, when the previous government established the AIDC, the Corporation was established as an independent body and allowed to have the ordinary confidential arrangements with clients that any other business undertaking, whether government or private, would be able to have. It is not required to divulge such details. However, it is public knowledge that the AIDC holds approximately 11 per cent of the issued share capital of Escor Ltd and has voting proxies for a further 29 per cent to 30 per cent of the company's shares which are owned by Bowater-Ralli, the English company. It is also known that Escor Ltd has a wholly owned subsidiary, Freighter Franklin Ltd, which in turn owns Caravan and General Finance, which in turn owns 35 per cent of Oak Insurance Ltd. 
There is some other information which I think is interesting with regard to  Senator Lawrie  's question. It relates to the benefits which are offered under the policies being offered by Oak Insurance Ltd. The benefits are payable only when the policy owner is in hospital. With regard to the premiums benefit, we find it difficult to make any meaningful comparison with other sickness and accident schemes. The restriction of claims to hospitalisation rather than home confinement allows a much lower premium than a normal personal accident scheme which does not require hospitalisation for the payment of benefits. In other words, as the benefits are considerably less than are being offered elsewhere, it is possible to offer a much lower premium rate. The view of the Treasury is that although the premium rates are low there are no reasons, at least at the moment, for believing that they are unrealistic, given the rather restricted nature of the policy offered. Perhaps I should read the advice given to me by the Minister for Social Security. The Minister said: 
It is my understanding that the Company is offering a form of sickness benefit insurance; not hospital insurance. The Company is not offering coverage against the cost of hospital treatment but basically against loss of income which may result from sickness. In relation to the newspaper advertisement which gave rise to the honourable senator's question, I would point out that the Australian Newspapers Council maintains a Code of Ethics in relation to the advertisements appearing in member newspapers. I would therefore suggest that the honourable senator might like to take any question he may have about the advertisements up with the Australian Newspapers Council. Further, it is required to comply with the provisions of the Insurance Act administered by the Depanment of the Treasury. . . . 
I hope that this information is satisfactory. Certainly it is the utmost information that we have available at present. 
I think I can say in partial answer to the question that the Government at the moment has nothing in mind other than having an inquiry into the management and administration of homes for the aged. As the details of the administration in this matter are not within my province but within the province of the Minister for Social Security I would suggest that  Senator Davidson  put the question on notice and I shall see that an answer is obtained for him. 
I feel constrained to add a few words with respect to the motion of condolence which has been moved in regard to the death of  Mr Kirk.  With the Minister for the Media I happened to be in New Zealand at the time  Mr Kirk  died. It came as a very severe shock the day after I arrived in New Zealand to learn of his death. I had known him personally- although I cannot say well- for some years after he became Leader of the Opposition. I do not think that anybody could fail to have a great admiration for a man who grew from origins of rural poverty in the South Island of New Zealand not only to be Prime Minister of his country but also to be an international figure. As Prime Minister of New Zealand he played an important part in international affairs as has been mentioned. He took immediate and decisive action upon becoming Prime Minister to end New Zealand 's involvement in the Vietnam war. He played a prominent part in opposition to French nuclear tests. On what could possibly be regarded as the more constructive side he did everything he could to build co-operation among the countries of the South Pacific in which he had a particular interest and with which he had a strong association. 
With the Prime Minister and the Minister for the Media I was present at the funeral service in St Paul's Anglican Cathedral in Wellington for the late  Mr Kirk.  I think I can truthfully say that I have never seen so many people publicly show so much obvious grief as was shown at this service, particularly by the Maori people. In many respects Norman Kirk can be regarded as a man who was a model social democrat, a man who stood for parliamentary democracy, for orderly processes of law at the same time coupled with the alleviation of the conditions of the people of his country and of other countries with which his country came into association, not by warlike, aggressive or belligerent actions but by cooperation and by entering into a peaceful social contract.  His  death is a loss to a fraternal party, the New Zealand Labor Party.  His  death is a loss to New Zealand and I believe, a loss to the cause of world peace. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable senators standing in their places. 
-There is no national law which covers the advertising of pharmaceutical goods. Each State or Territory is responsible for making its own laws within its own areas with regard to these matters. 
-However, there is a body called the National Therapeutic Goods Committee and there is the Drug Evaluation Committee, as  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson has mentioned, although its role is somewhat different in that it considers the nature of drugs but not advertising associated with them. The National Therapeutic Goods Committee consists of representatives from the Federal Government and the State governments. At the meeting of the Australian Ministers for Health, which was held in August of this year, the Ministers agreed to take back to their respective States proposals that had come from the National Therapeutic Goods Committee which called for a uniform code of advertising for pharmaceutical products. This Government is still not aware of the actions which the States intend to take to implement the recommendations of the Health Ministers Conference. However, the Minister for Health in this Government does intend to introduce as soon as possible proposals to control this form of advertising in the Territories under the authority of this Government. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. Because of a severe shortage of nursing staff it was necessary to place a ceiling on the number of patients that would be admitted to certain wards at Repatriation General Hospital, Heidelberg. As the staff position improves these ceilings will be lifted. 
The Government announced on 10 April 1973 that as beds became available they would be used for treatment of patients in the community including some ex-servicemen who had no entitlement under the Repatriation system. 
Any spare capacity would be used for: 
The treatment, where medically desirable, of nonaccepted disabilities, while the ex-serviceman is in a Repatriation hospital for accepted disabilities; treatment of non-Repatriation patients from artificial limb and appliance centres, including admission of patients for amputation; cases of special clinical interest to Repatriation General Hospitals all of which are teaching hospitals. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
, (3) and (4) I pointed out that it was unreasonable that States should set standards the Australian Government has to pay for. I pointed out that either Victoria had an unreasonably high standard or Queensland at the other end of the cost spectrum had an unreasonably low standard. I saw no evidence that Queensland's situation was unreasonably low. I indicated that the Australian Government has a responsibility to the taxpayers on this matter and that accordingly an effort would be made to establish whether a more practicable and responsible system of funding through nursing home benefits could be established. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
This matter is being handled by the Canberra Hospitals Management Board, a statutory authority. The Board is dealing with all applications received in complete confidentiality and it would be inappropriate for the Minister to require the Board to provide information on the numbers of applications received or on where they came from. However, the  Chairman  of the Board has stated that well over a hundred applications have been received, including a number from leading world specialists. 

 - Mr Deputy President, I would not want to claim that this is the first time this afternoon that you are to receive some information about this sad and sorry affair. It is the third time. You have received it from  Senator Willesee  and you have received it from  Senator Murphy.  Now you will receive it from me. But I will concede that you certainly have not received any information from any Opposition senators. I must say one thing in commencing to make my remarks on this subject, which will be few because this tedious, dreary debate, in which even the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  has clearly lost interest, is not something which ought to be prolonged unduly. The one thing which I should do at the beginning- and I must say that I feel constrained to do it- is to congratulate the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Greenwood)  on the very fine feelings for human rights and civil liberties to which he has so recently been converted. I can well remember when  Senator Greenwood  was the Attorney-General. Far from applauding demonstrations such as that which took place at the Perth airport, it was  Senator Greenwood  himself who, at a similar demonstration which took place, I think, at the Melbourne University, sent in the Commonwealth Police in order to arrest those students who were taking part in the demonstration. But now he has changed. He is in favour of demonstrations. He is in favour of people in mobs preventing the transit of people through public places- something to which he told us once that in the interests of law and order he was opposed. I am interested also to find that  Senator Greenwood  is such a recent convert to the doctrines of civil liberties and freedom of speech, because I remember some years ago- in fact, it was very early on the morning of Boxing Day of one year- there was a ring at my front door, and what did I find there? I found a Commonwealth policeman who had been sent there at the instructions of the then AttorneyGeneral,  Senator Greenwood,  to interrogate me as to why I had authorised an advertisement in a newspaper in relation to the National Service Act. I find it very interesting that  Senator Greenwood,  who sent in the Commonwealth Police to arrest demonstrators at the Melbourne University, and who sent the Commonwealth Police to investigate and interrogate members of this Parliament for exercising this freedom of speech which he believes is so essential in the Soviet Union but which at least in the past he did not think was of any value in this country, has today emerged as the champion of human rights, the champion of civil liberties and the man who says that a person should be able to get up and say what he likes whenever he wants to say it and that he should not be interrogated by the police, that he should be free to insert advertisements in newspapers and should be free to demonstrate at the Melbourne University or at the Perth airport or anywhere else. I only hope that this new libertarian tendency which has become so recently discernible in the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition will continue into the future, because if it does it will show a remarkable change and a remarkable conversion on the part of the so illnamed Liberal Party. 
But let me return to this issue of  Mr Ermolenko.  If ever a subject, in my opinion, has been talked out in this Parliament, it is the subject of what did or did not happen to  Mr 
Ermolenko. We went through it all once before. It is quite obvious that honourable senators opposite want to go through it all again because they are afraid to confront the real issues which are facing the Australian people. They are afraid to discuss the issues concerning the economy. They are afraid to discuss the propositions which have been advanced by this Government. They are afraid to discuss seriously any issues relating to foreign policy. They want to get back again to Ermolenko. What was the position with Ermolenko, as we understand it and as everybody else understands it? Apparently at some stage Ermolenko said something to some people connected with the University of Western Australia, the Reverend  Mr Johnson  and the Reverend  Mr Borthwick-  although I find that on the whole honourable senators opposite, showing the same lack of knowledge of the finer points of ecclesiastical terminology, as they do of foreign policy, tend to refer to them as the Reverend Johnson and the Reverend Borthwick. But the Reverend  Mr Johnson  and the Reverend  Mr Borthwick  at some stage apparently were told by  Mr Ermolenko  that he did not want to leave Australia. I certainly do not want to rehash this business which has been gone over again and again inside this Parliament and outside of it about what they said and what they did not say. But the fact of the matter is that every possible precaution was taken by this Government to see that those persons who were interested in the security and safety of Ermolenko should find out what Ermolenko actually wanted to do. 
Ermolenko said on a television station in Perth- he said it to journalists and to all sorts of people- that he wanted to leave Australia and go back to the Soviet Union. He did leave Australia and he did go back to the Soviet Union. It would be an absolutely impossible situation, as  Senator Murphy  and  Senator Willesee  have said, for the Australian Government to say: 'We have got a civil libertarian in our place,  Senator Greenwood,  who has a very keen sense of the rights of free speech and the free movement of individuals. He is so sensitive, he gave such an earnest example of it when he was AttorneyGeneral, that because we do not want to upset this man's delicate sensibilities we are going to place  Mr Ermolenko  under arrest and compel him, whether he wants to or not, to spend 24 hours in the company of the Reverend  Mr Johnson  and/or the Reverend  Mr Borthwick,  and then we will have another look at it after he has discussed these matters with these clerical gentlemen. ' We were not prepared to do that. 
Ermolenko made it perfectly clear that he wanted to leave Australia, and he did leave. As it happens, he is now in West Berlin as a member of a Soviet musical ensemble which apparently is giving concerts in West Berlin. Are we to understand from the sort of nonsense that the Opposition is talking today that the West Berlin authorities are also a part of this Russian conspiracy, or is it perhaps that they are a part of the Chinese conspiracy, to both of which, with this tremendous versatility which is attributed to the Labor Party, members of the Government apparently are capable of being party simultaneously? Ermolenko is in West Berlin; let us find out whether he tries to seek asylum in West Berlin. Nobody, I think, would accuse the authorities in West Berlin of being communist stooges. He is there, he has travelled there; let us see what happens. 
Now there is the other issue which was raised about  Senator Willesee  's terrible attitude towards the courts in Western Australia, the contemptuous attitude that he showed to the Supreme Court of Western Australia because he arranged for  Mr Ermolenko  to leave Australia while a couple of actions were pending. As it happens, there were not 2 actions pending. One of the actions had already been quashed. It was a most extraordinary piece of litigation, a writ of habeas corpus being applied for against, I think, an inspector in the Commonwealth Police. He was supposed to be holding Ermolenko in custody, but at that stage the Commonwealth Police had never seen Ermolenko. There was another proceeding against  Mr Alexandrov  of the Soviet Embassy who, with those remarkable psychic powers which I had thought had been generally attributed to the more oriental communists but apparently are also possessed by communists from Russia, or by some sort of thought control, was able to retain  Mr Ermolenko  in custody while  Mr Ermolenko  was in Perth and  Mr Alexandrov  was in Canberra. The proceedings were not against the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The proceedings were not even against  Mr Ermolenko.  They were against  Mr Alexandrov.  Also there had been proceedings against an officer of the Commonwealth Police. 
It is of no use for the Leader of the Opposition, who has now retired from the chamber, to say that it is quite irrelevant to say that when the proceedings- the ridiculous proceedings- were being concluded in the Supreme Court of Western Australia the learned judge thanked the counsel for the Australian Government for his assistance and to say that this is merely the usual courtesy which is shown. That, of course, is not the case. If the judge believed that the counsel for the Commonwealth was representing a client who had behaved in any way improperly during the course of the proceedings, then of course he would have taken the opportunity to point it out; he would have referred to the fact that the person whom the counsel for the Commonwealth of Australia was representing in the proceedings in the Supreme Court in Perth had acted improperly. In fact as  Senator Murphy  has asked- I believe it has to be asked again- if there has been some contempt of court, if there has been some improper action taken by  Senator Willesee  or by the Australian Government with regard to the Supreme Court of Western Australia, why does not the Tory Government in Western Australia institute proceedings within the Supreme Court of Western Australia against the Minister for Foreign Affairs? It is not going to do so because it knows that it does not have the slightest grounds for doing so and it knows that this is merely a lot of puff and drivel which has been served up to us today in order to waste the time of the Australian Parliament. 
I come to the second part of this rabble motion which has been moved by  Senator Greenwood.  It reads: 
in breach of a clear undertaking to the contrary given by the Prime Minister the Government shamefully and furtively extended recognition to the incorporation of the Baltic states in the USSR, the Minister withholding any announcement or explanation of the decision. 
This part of the motion refers to 'the Baltic states'. I take it that the Opposition is referring to the 3 Baltic states of Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia. I assume that the Opposition does not mean the other Baltic states of Finland, the German Democratic Republic, Poland, Sweden and Denmark. What is the situation with regard to Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia which are or were three of the Baltic states? Their incorporation in the Soviet Union is one of the most shameful acts in modern European history. It was something which took place as a result of a disgraceful, shameful and discreditable treaty signed in Moscow in 1939 between Stalin and Ribbentrop, the then nazi Foreign Minister. 
The argument is used- I think there is a certain amount of justification for it- that the Soviet Union needed to take some steps to protect itself by entering into some sort of treaty with the nazis because the Western powers at that time had refused to co-operate with it and had rebuffed its efforts to organise a common front against the then menace of the Axis powers- nazi Germany and fascist Italy. I think there is a certain amount of justification in this argument, but only a very partial amount of justification. I do not believe that this in any way justified the Soviet Union believing that it could forcibly incorporate those 3 states inside the Soviet Union and I do not believe that it entitled the Soviet Union to occupy the eastern third of Poland and to take part conjointly with nazi Germany in a military attack upon Poland which was then, with whatever faults there may have been in the existing Polish Government, fighting alongside the democracies in defence of the world against nazism and fascism. I do not believe there is the slightest excuse for it whatsoever. 
I also do not believe the arguments which are sometimes put forward to the effect that it does not really matter about Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia because the people who were there were nazis and generally behaved in an undesirable manner during the Second World War. I certainly think that is true of many people from those countries, as unfortunately it is true of many people of a number of other countries. I do not think there is any question that the Latvian SS, for example, was one of the principal participants, and possibly the most brutal participant, in the massacre of the Warsaw ghetto. But the fact remains that these people were a minority within Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia. There are many people from those 3 countries who are now living as refugees and who are fine democrats. In fact, the Social Democratic Parties of Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia are just as illegal as any nazi or neo-nazi organisation. 
I know this from my own experience in Perth. When I was practising law there I had as clients a Latvian family who had come to this country as refugees. They were working class people. They had been members of the Latvian Social Democratic Party in Riga. They had taken part in the anti-nazi resistance and were rewarded for their troubles by being arrested by the Soviet occupation troops upon the arrival of the Soviet Army in Latvia. I do not think there is any question that the treatment of the ethnic minorities, the culture and the language of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania under the Soviet Union is something of which the Soviet Union cannot at all be proud. 
What is it that the Government is doing? The Government is recognising a fact. It is an unpalatable fact. I find it a lugubrious duty and I wish that one did not have to recognise this fact, but it is a fact. The same argument, I suppose, can be used- I am not trying to change the subject; I believe it is a parallel argument- when we find that there are certain people who say that the state of 
Israel should not exist because the Zionist movement somehow was wrong and the settlement should never have gone there. I do not agree with that and I never have agreed with it. But, even if such an argument should be maintained, the fact remains that the state of Israel is there; it exists as a state and it has to be recognised as a state. It has to be given de jure recognition as a state and one has to deal with it as a state, whatever one might or might not have thought about the Zionist movement, although, I repeat that I have always been a sympathiser of the Zionist movement. 
What we are doing with regard to Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia is recognising an unpalatable fact of life; that is, that they have been incorporated within the Soviet Union and there is no foreseeable chance, beyond a third world war, of those 3 states coming out of the Soviet Union. 
-Senator Greenwood has asked what are the reasons for the change of attitude. I am telling him my reasons for my change of attitude, which I believe reflect those of the Government. We are not welcoming the fact that these countries have been incorporated in the Soviet Union. What is it that the Opposition is asking us to do? Is it asking us to raise an expeditionary force to go to Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia and to fight there? Is that was Opposition senators are asking us to do? No, they are merely asking us to carry on with a farce or a fraud and to say to the people of the 3 states: 'De jure we do not recognise your incorporation inside the Soviet Union, but de facto we do.' As  Senator Murphy  has indicated with regard to the matter relating to extradition treaties, the previous Government de jure recognised that Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia no longer exist by virtue of the fact that their names were excluded from the list of countries with which Australia has extradition treaties. At the present time one of the most important problems facing the whole of the world's people is to bring about what for some mysterious reason- I have never quite known why- is called detente, a relaxation, an end to the cold war, a certain amount of give and take by the 2 major sides in the present world conflct. 
One of the things that has to be done in order to bring that about is to face a number of realities and some of those realities are unpalatable. There has to be some recognition of the fact that whether we like it or not or anyone else likes it or not, or whether it is just or unjust- and I believe it is unjust and I do not like it- Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia have been incorporated into the Soviet Union. To continue to say they are not part of the Soviet Union while the Soviet Government and I daresay a majority of the Soviet people believe that they are is something which lessens opportunities for bringing about peaceful settlements with the Soviet Union, and peaceful settlements with the Soviet Union are essential. 
If it were being put forward that something serious could be done in order to free Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia from the existing occupation, if some proposition were being put forward as to how this were to be done and there would not only be a de jure Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia but a de facto Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia, certainly I for one would be prepared to listen to it. But no such proposition has been put forward. No one has suggested how these countries are to regain their freedom. All that has been said is that we should continue to reject the claim of sovereignty made by the Soviet Government. In the circumstances which face us, in the curcumstances which bring about the necessity of negotiation and co-operation for world peace- and I know that well meaning, honest people will disagree with me on this- I submit that one of the essentials is to recognise the sovereignty of all of the major powers over those areas where they can make some strong de facto claim for such sovereignty. 
The third matter that is before the Senate, and about which I might say not much has been said, is the claim that the foreign policy alignments that  Senator Willesee  is promoting will not serve Australia's national interests. What are the foreign policy alignments that we are making? They are not referred to. Is it alleged that we entered into some new alliances with someone, military or otherwise? If so, with whom? What are these alliances? What we have done is to establish diplomatic relations with a number of countries with which we did not previously have diplomatic relations. We established diplomatic relations with the People's Republic of China. Is there someone who will say that this should not be done? Does the Liberal Party say that if it were elected to government it would cancel recognition of the Government in Peking and say that the real Government of China is in Taipei? This is the alternative. You cannot recognise both of them. Both the Government in Taipei and the Government in Peking claim to be the government of the whole of China. It is an all or nothing choice. Again it may be, one might say, an unpalatable choice. But you have to do one or the other- you cannot recognise both of them. Is the Opposition saying that we should go back to recognising Taipei and that we ought to try to exclude China from the councils of the world, from the trade which it is engaged in with this country and other countries? 
We have established diplomatic relations with the German Democratic Republic which is the tenth industrial power and a growing power in the world. Is it suggested that we should not have diplomatic relations with this country? Is it suggested that we should not have diplomatic relations with the Democratic Republic of Vietnam? Is it suggested that we should not have diplomatic relations with the government in North Korea? These are not alignments. But no other alignments have been referred to. These are positions for which the Australian Government is not apologetic. The Government is proud that it has taken independently steps to see that Australia is talking to all of the major forces within the world. We are not conducting our foreign policy in accordance with some sort of ideological quirk. In the same way we have diplomatic relations with Spain and we had diplomatic relations with Portugal under its previous Government. We continue to have diplomatic relations with South Africa. We have diplomatic relations with other countries with which the former Government would not have diplomatic relations. We believe that these are major contributions to world peace. Never has the reputation of the Australian Government throughout the world been higher than it stands at the present time. 
The last time there was an Australian  President  of the United Nations was when  Dr Evatt  was the  President.  The Australian Labor Party Minister for External Affairs was the  President  of the United Nations. What do all indications show? They show that the next time an Australian will be  President  of the United Nations he will also be a member of the Australian Labor Party-  Senator Willesee.  For 23 years a conservative government sat here. Would anyone have ever suggested that anyone of its motley collection of Ministers responsible for Foreign Affairs should have been  President  of the United Nations? Of course they would not, unless it were an April Fool's Day party and they were trying to amuse the delegates. Such a suggestion would have been greeted with gales of laughter. I suspect that the primary reasons for this nonsensical series of non sequiturs which have been served up to us this afternoon are to waste the time of the Parliament and to prevent the Australian Minister for Foreign Affairs from becoming the 

 President of the United Nations. We are proud of our Foreign Minister. He has carried out the policies of the Australian Labor Party. He has carried out the policies of the Australian Government which have been supported by the overwhelming majority of Australian people. This Party and the Government stand behind the Minister for Foreign Affairs and totally repudiate this ridiculous motion which has been moved this afternoon. 
I present the following petition from 16 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Federal National Parliament of Australia by Pensioners and the Public who do care to be presented to the House of Representatives (Lower House) and the House of the Senate (Upper House), to the Honourable  Speaker  of each House, we ask as members of the Public that: 
A Nationalized Government and Private transport system be established. that Pensioners transport be made free within the Federation where the Government has constitutional powers, to make all Government and Private transport free within the Federation to Pensioners and all other underpriviledged members of the community. 
Although the pension has been increased by $1.50 the high cost of living has effectively made this increase worthless, consequently the above actions are considered to require urgent National Government Action. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Australian Economy: Proposals by the Premier of Queensland 
For the information of honourable senators I present a report from the Hospitals and Health Commission entitled: 'Continuing Medical Education', dated August 1974. 
-As honourable senators would be aware, there has been a change recently in the administration of the repatriation hospitals insofar as some efforts are being made to enable people who are not recipients of repatriation benefits in the normal manner to make use of these hospitals. In particular in New South Wales, after some negotiations with the Health Commission of that State, an accident and emergency treatment centre has been established at the repatriation general hospital in Concord to handle casualty cases from an area which is yet to be defined in the western suburbs of Sydney. I think most people would agree that there may be occasions when it is necessary to have a nearby hospital available for the treatment of such emergencies. It is appropriate that a hospital such as the Concord hospital, with its first class facilities, should be available to people who are injured as a result of some accident which has occurred within the area. I think  Senator Mulvihill  asked a question along these lines during the previous sessional period. An additional facility is required at the Concord hospital and its construction has already started. It is hoped that the unit will be operating early in 1975. 
As an example of similar activities that are being undertaken in other States by the Department of Repatriation and Compensation, proposals are now in hand to examine the desirability of establishing a similar unit at the repatriation general hospital at Greenslopes in Queensland. An agreement has been reached with the Premier of Queensland to establish a working party to inquire into the desirability and feasibility of establishing that unit. 
For the information of honourable senators I lay on the table of the Senate the report of the DirectorGeneral of Health on the activities of the Australian Department of Health for the year ended 30 June 1974. 
Pursuant to the provisions of the Social Services Act 1947-74, 1 present the report of the DirectorGeneral of Social Security on the administration of the Social Services Act and on other activities of the Department of Social Security for the financial year ended 30 June 1 974. 
-On 18 July 1974,  Senator Baume  asked me, as Minister representing the Minister for Health the following question, without notice: 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware of the existence of the Therapeutic Goods Advisory Committee which was set up in 1972 by the Liberal-Country Party Government? Can the Minister say why this potentially important committee has met only once- in February 1974- since its formation? Will he confirm that a second committee meeting was proposed for June 1974 and then postponed? Will he also confirm that the minutes of the first meeting have not yet been forwarded to members of the Committee? Will he assure the Senate that it is the intention of the Labor Government to see that this Committee will continue to function efficiently and effectively and, hopefully, more frequently? 
The Minister for Health has now provided me with the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
. The Therapeutic Goods Advisory Committee was set up in 1972 under section 17 of the Therapeutic Goods Regulations. 
The functions ofthe Committee are to consider. 
any matter referred to it by the Minister relating to the administration ofthe Act; and 
the standards applicable to any goods for therapeutic use, and the requirements with respect to labelling and packaging applicable to any such goods, in so far as those standards or requirements relate to the manufacture, distribution or use of goods for therapeutic use; and to advise the Minister in relation to that matter or those standards. 
The Committee did not meet until February 1974 because during the intervening period there was no matter referred to the Committee within its terms of reference which warranted calling a meeting. During the period 1 972 to 1974 a number of draft standards were drawn up and agreed to by the Therapeutic Goods Standards Committee, an expert technical advisory body established under Section 1 8 of the Therapeutic Goods Regulations. Following agreement on the draft standards at the technical level, they were referred to the Therapeutic Goods Advisory Committee for consideration. February 1 974 was the earliest date that this could be achieved. 
The second meeting ofthe Committee was proposed for June 1974 but was later postponed to allow adequate time for groups, that might be affected in their professional or commercial activities by the proposed standards for therapeutic goods, to comment on those standards before they were considered further by the Therapeutic Goods Advisory Committee. The Committee had referred, at its first meeting, to the necessity for adequate time being granted for such comment to be provided. 
The minutes of the meeting of 5 February 1974 were dispatched to members of the Committee on 29 April 1974. However, as the honourable senator's copy has not reached him, I have arranged for another copy to be sent to him. 
I can assure the honourable senator that it is the intention of the Government that the Committee will continue to function efficiently and effectively. With regard to frequency of meetings, it is intended that the Committee will meet between each meeting of the Therapeutic Goods Standards Committee, probably three times each year. However this will depend on the speed with which the Therapeutic Goods Standards Committee is able to carry out the highly complex task of preparing draft standards for consideration by the Advisory Committee. 
The Minister for the Environment and Conservation has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The information will be contained in the annual report of my Department which will be tabled in the Senate. 
Legislation is being prepared to enable grants to be made to the States for this purpose. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No. The heavy workload for both Houses prevents this. 
I am pleased to be able to say that one of the consequences of the extension of repatriation services into the field of the provision of artificial limbs has been that this service has been extended to Aborigines, many of whom were suffering very greatly because of leprosy. Artificial limbs are now available free of charge to Aborigines, as they are available to all other citizens. The Department of Repatriation and Compensation, in conjunction with the Department of Health, has provided a centre in Darwin where artificial limbs are made available to all those who are in need of them, particularly Aborigines. 
I think the allegation has been made that the repatriation medical services do place this undue emphasis on in-patient treatment in hospitals, but I do not believe that this is in fact so. The system does stress treatment within the homes of people who are in need of medical attention and every possible effort is made by the officers of the Repatriation Commission to see that they are so treated. In fact, patients are admitted to the repatriation hospitals only when there is an acute need for them to be treated in hospital. It is curious that sometimes both complaints are being made at the same time. Some people say that there is too much emphasis on treatment in the hospitals and others say that not enough people are being admitted to the hospitals. 
The fact of the matter is that what the Department is endeavouring to do is, as far as possible, to treat people within the home and when an acute situation arises to admit them to the hospitals. The Department does provide services of domiciliary care, such as physiotherapy, home nursing, meals on wheels and other facilities, and there are a number of aids which are provided through the repatriation system to repatriation beneficiaries. These include special eating utensils, bath seats and other equipment of this nature. In short, the answer to the honourable senator's question is that we believe we are not placing any undue emphasis on in-patient treatment within hospitals and that everything that can possibly be done is being done to see that the patients are being treated within their homes. 
I do not know that I can shed much light on the reasons for the presence of excess mercury in the waters around Australia beyond saying that obviously it is a result of industrial waste being discharged into the oceans. Of course, primarily this is an environmental rather than a health problem. The Minister has advised members of the public not to eat more than 1 lb- apparently we are still in the pre-metric days in making these calculations of fish per week unless they can be assured that the fish is not flake, that is, shark meat. Apparently 10 lb of fish would be enough to cause very serious danger to the health of a person who ate it. One-tenth of that amount, that is 1 lb of fish, a week is regarded as being the maximum that one can consume and remain safe. I understand that oysters are an even worse problem than flake or shark. As  Senator James  McClelland has reminded me, apparently there are other attractions about oysters which some may think make them worth while. There is something like 10 times the concentration of mercury in oysters when compared with shark. Sharks are scavengers and oysters receive a lot of deposits from metal and other things which are cast into waters by persons who have a habit of casting these things into waters, but as it is apparently unlikely that even the most enthusiastic gourmet would eat more than 1 lb of oysters a week not many are in serious trouble in this regard. 
Certainly I shall convey to the Minister for Health the matter which  Senator Jessop  has raised. Clearly a very serious problem is involved because the incidence of mercury in fish around the Australian coast appears to be rapidly rising. As  Senator Jessop  is aware, mercury is a singularly dangerous element for people to consume. I am not at all sure about the precise powers the Australian Government would have to deal with all the problems which are involved in regulating the dumping of mercury into waters or, indeed, whether the dumped mercury all comes from Australia. I do not know to what extent it comes from some other parts of the world. I think the suggestion that there should be a conference of the Federal Minister and the relevant State Ministers is very useful. I shall see that the honourable senator's suggestion is passed on to the Minister. 
-Apparently there are constant scientific developments in the field of artificial limb making. Within the Repatriation Commission there has been established for some years an organisation devoted to research into and development of artificial limbs called the Central Development Unit. It is under the control of people who are qualified medically and it employs people whose profession is the designing and manufacturing of artificial limbs. An international organisation which deals with this matter, the International Society of Prosthetics and Orthotics, has its headquarters in Copenhagen. The Australian Repatriation Commission is represented on this Society and maintains contact through it with all the leading limb and appliance centres throughout the world. Quite frequent visits are made overseas by officers of the Repatriation Commission who are concerned with this matter. We believe that the standard of information and development in Australia compares favourably with that in most other countries. 
As honourable senators are aware, I tabled volume one of the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Compensation and Rehabilitation in the Senate on 10 July this year. At that time I said that a separate report on rehabilitation and safety would be presented. There is a third volume to the committee's report, which unfortunately I am unable to present at this time because the printing of it has not been completed. It is described as a compendium, and contains statistical and costing details together with some other background information. 
The national compensation scheme, as put forward by  Mr Justice  A. D. Woodhouse, D.S.C., and  Mr Justice  C. L. D. Meares, is a total concept, designed to guarantee the social well-being of all those in our community who encounter difficulty through illness, accident, or congenital disability. The report stresses safety as a vital preventative measure, rehabilitation as a means of reducing or eliminating incapacity when prevention has failed, and finally, compensation as a last resort when preventative and rehabilitative measures have failed. 
These are the 3 main elements of the total scheme, and for each of them to be fully effective, there needs to be an overall co-ordinated effort. The report offers suggestions for bringing together in a co-ordinated way the present fragmented rehabilitation services in Australia, and it proposes a more scientific approach to safety. I expect there will be considerable public and professional interest in the report, and copies will be widely available through the Australian Government Publishing Service shortly. I commend the report for the consideration of honourable senators. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 

 Mr Read's statement could be interpreted in this way but  Mr Read  also said in his statement that he did not know whether this was a reason for  Dr Jarvis  ' resignation. 
Doctors in salaried Health Centres are able to determine case loads and the number of patients they see. They use an appointment system and other health professionals at the Health Centre to this end. Emergency cases are seen without an appointment. During periods of high demand for medical services such as the recent influenza epidemic, the salaried medical practitioners, like their private colleagues, may have to sec more patients than desirable under normal circumstances. If necessary, additional medical and/or nursing staff may be provided at these times. 
Yes. No 'production quotas' are applied at Health Centres. One of the expressed aims of the community health program is to improve the quality of health care. 
I am afraid that my knowledge of this matter is rather slender. I hope  Senator Sheil  was not referring to me when he said that the Minister was misleading the public. All I can do is refer the question to the Minister for Social Security who is in charge of this matter and see that an answer is provided for  Senator Sheil. 
I think that  Senator Mcintosh  is the only British ex-serviceman in the Senate. So it is probably understandable that he should have raised this matter- not that I would suggest that he had a vested interest in the matter. The Treasurer announced in the Budget Speech that eligibility for service pensions would be extended to ex-service men and women of Commonwealth countries who had theatre of war service in wars or warlike situations in which Australian forces were involved. The proposed legislation will apply not only to British exservice men and women but also to ex-service men and women from other Commonwealth countries. For example, Indian ex-service men and women who now reside in Australia also will be eligible for those benefits. The proposal is that Commonwealth ex-service men and women who had theatre of war service in these conflicts will be eligible for the same service pension entitlements as Australian ex-service men and women. This is something for which many people in Australia have been agitating for many years- unsuccessfully for 23 years in the time of our predecessors in office. They will be eligible for this entitlement after 10 years residence in this country. 
If I may add something to this, I am at the present time having inquiries made to see how it will be possible for us to extend these benefits not only to Commonwealth ex-service men and women but also to ex-service men and women of other allied countries who were engaged in wars or warlike conflicts alongside the Australian forces. Without elaborating, I think it is easy to see the difficulties involved in the extension to these people. For example, is a member of a resistance movement to be classified as an exserviceman? What is the position of somebody who served for part of the time with the Vichy forces and for part of the time with the Free French forces, and so on? Precisely what is a theatre of war? Obviously there are very great difficulties in arriving at a definition not only of a theatre of war but of what constitutes an allied ex-service man or woman. But these inquiries are being made and I hope it will not be too long before adequate legislation can be brought down to cover these people? 
With regard to Commonwealth ex-service men and women, they will become eligible for the benefits as soon as the appropriate legislation has been passed through the Parliament. I hope that the Opposition will not display the same obstructive tactics on this Bill as it has on other constructive measures which the Government has brought forward. Once the Bill does become law, Commonwealth ex-service men and women will be eligible for the benefits and they will be able to obtain them by applying to the officers of the Department of Repatriation and Compensation in their respective States. The eligibility of Commonwealth ex-service men and women will be widely advertised throughout Australia. 
I must say that I have a great admiration for  Senator Baume  's intimate acquaintance with the minutiae of the Department of Health. I must confess in answering this question that, far from knowing what devilish deeds  Dr Wells  has been performing over the last few days, until this moment I had not even heard of  Dr Wells. 
-Senator Baume says that I should have and I am prepared to accept the correction, but I must confess in all honesty that I have not.  Senator Baume  apparently believes that something should be done urgently this afternoon. As he is aware, I am not in a position to do it because I cannot direct  Dr Wells  or anybody else to do anything. All I can do is undertake to convey  Senator Baume  's question and his strictures to my colleague the Minister for Health and ask him to act with the promptness which  Senator Baume,  who, as I say, appears to know a great deal about this matter, seems to think that the circumstances demand. 
-Senator Lawrie was courteous enough to let me know that he intended to ask a question on this subject. I have obtained some information on the matter from the Minister for Social Security. In fact, the reduction of the allowance to which he refers results from the phasing in of the abolition of the means test by the Labor Government. On 11 September last year the Government announced the first phase of its program to abolish the means test on age pensions. The first phase applied to all residentially qualified people aged 75 or more. In the same year the Income Tax Assessment Act was amended to make pensions and similar benefits payable to people of pensionable age, that is, 65 years for men and 60 for women, taxable, as from 1 July 1973. Pensions for the blind have been wholly free of a means test since 1954. The abolition of the means test therefore conferred no benefit on blind people. But the decision to tax those pensions received by persons of pensionable age would have been to the detriment of blind age pensioners. They were not receiving any additional pension but they were to be taxed due to the imposition of tax on pensions. This applied particularly in those cases where they had significant amounts of taxable income other than the pension. 
To look after the interests of blind people who were in these circumstances a transitional benefit for the aged blind was introduced by this Government. On 1 1 September last we announced that the benefit would be payable at the rate of $3 a week. I should stress that when  Senator Lawrie  talks about our taking away a benefit, it is a benefit which we introduced, not one which we inherited from the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. The $3 a week benefit was designed to alleviate any financial disability which blind persons of pensionable age might experience when their pensions became taxable. I think it must be emphasised that when the Minister for Social Security gave his second reading speech on the Social Services Bill (No. 2) 1974 he said: 
As its name implies, the transitional benefit was intended to be phased out over subsequent years as increases in pension rates improved the benefit rate to these pensioners. 
As there was a substantial increase in the means test pensions in August of this year, the Government decided that the first step should be taken to phase out this transitional benefit. Accordingly, a reduction of $1.50 a week was made in the amount of benefit payable to these people. The single age pensioner who is blind would nevertheless have received a substantial increase of $3.50 a week. So the total of the pension received by the blind person, far from being decreased as  Senator Lawrie  's question would suggest, has in fact been increased as a result of the actions of this Government. 
I am aware that this has been done. Far from it being confusing, it was felt that this would help remove some confusion. There have been several changes in terminology. From now on those people who previously were described as ex-service men or women are being described as veterans. The term 'war service' is no longer being used. The term ' service ' has replaced it. The term ' war pension' also has gone out of use. It is to be replaced by either 'disability pension' or 'dependant's pension', whichever is appropriate in the circumstances. This has been done because of the extension of repatriation type benefits to people other than those who had engaged in what could be narrowly described as war service. There has been an extension of various benefits to national servicemen, for example. There has also been an extension of those benefits to people who served in Malaysia and Singapore and who were not in fact engaged in war but were engaged in various other duties on behalf of the Australian Defence Forces. 
In fact, with the number of Acts and the number of benefits which were available to people for different types of service it was becoming increasingly complex to have a narrow definition for a whole range of people. As the benefits which are being paid are based on the same principles it would seem to be quite suitable to use this one set of terminology - a practice which in fact is followed in the United States, New Zealand and Canada where the word 'veteran' is commonly used to describe all of those people who are eligible for the various benefits. It is not believed that any additional cost will be involved. We are phasing the new terminology into the departmental documents as they are prepared. In fact, in the long run there will probably be a saving of expense and a saving of time in the use of the standard terminology to cover all of the veterans and the various types of benefit which they are receiving. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The IBM 370/168 computer successfully completed acceptance testing on 6 May 1974 and has been used for Departmental processing since 7 May 1 974. 
The proposed Health Insurance Scheme has not yet been introduced. 
3 ) The computer is being used for: 
Development of the Health Insurance data processing system; 
Central development and maintenance of the Social Security benefits data processing systems operating on State based computers; 
Processing of Health Insurance statistics relating to the existing scheme; 
Processing of statistical analyses of Social Security benefits; 
Evaluation, development and maintenance of special and general-purpose software to support all Departmental computer systems; 
f) Development of Management Information Systems; 
Assistance to other Departments in Canberra requiring access to computer facilities. 
The computer is being used eight hours each working day. 
The use to which the computer would be put in the event of a long delay in the implementation of the Health Insurance Program would be reviewed by the Department in the light of work priorities for computing requirements at that time. 
6 ) As already stated, the computer is in use. I would point out that had it not been for the frustration of the Opposition in the Senate, the Health Insurance Program would have been introduced on 1 July this year and the computer would have been in full use. Any criticism, therefore, of underutilisation of the computer must be and can be properly directed solely against the behaviour of the Opposition in the Senate. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Letters were sent to IBM on 26 January 1973, 2 April 1973, and 31 May 1973 seeking information regarding the availability of a computer system of the scale of an IBM 370/ 1 68 and to ask related technical questions. 
In each of these letters, it was specifically emphasised that the request for this advice was not to be taken as a commitment to purchase. 
Following the submission of a quotation from IBM Australia Limited in response to the specfication for Tender sent to IBM on 21 November 1973 formal notification of intent to purchase was given on 1 1 December 1 973. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) An inquiry is being conducted under the auspices of the Social Welfare Commission. As the honourable senator would know an interim report was tabled in the Senate on 4 December 1973. The Government acted on the proposals in that report last April. The following action was taken by the Government: 
Subsidy limits under the Aged Persons Homes Act were increased and a separate additional subsidy for land introduced. 
A three stage approval of new homes was introduced to ensure that proposals are viable both socialogically and economically having regard to such factors as the need for the particular type of care in the area, suitability of the site and proposed buildings, availability of ongoing care in the area and the overall cost of the project. 
An embargo on the soliciting of second and subsequent donations' from prospective residents of aged persons' homes is in the process of being implemented. 
Organisations are being counselled and encouraged to improve communications with residents, abolish over restrictive 'house rules' and foster the formation of residents ' committees. 
Similar measures have been agreed to in respect of the Aged Persons Hostels Act and will be introduced as soon as the necessary amending legislation can be enacted. 
A working party of senior officers from the Department of Social Security and the Treasury was formed to examine the adequacy of current maximum limits, means of cushioning the effect of rising building costs and the difficulties some organisations are experiencing in establishing aged persons homes in remote areas. 
The Committee is an independent committee set up by the Social Welfare Commission. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No new community health centres  have  been approved for the Eastern Suburbs of Sydney. It is assumed that the reference is to a proposal put to the Hospitals and Health Services Commission for the establishment of four health centres in the Eastern Suburbs and which is still under consideration  by  the Commission. 
I am not aware of any proposal to staff health centres in New South Wales using second year resident medical officers seconded from teaching hospitals. In New South Wales, medical staff employed in community health centres are employed under the NSW Public Service Act. It is possible that this question is related to a misunderstanding of the nature of the Family Medicine Program of the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners, under which some resident medical officers may attend such centres as part of their training. 
The Eastern Suburbs of Sydney do not comprise an area recognised for purposes of health care planning in New South Wales. The Eastern Suburbs would fall within the Southern Metropolitan health planning region. Within that region there are areas that do enjoy a favourable health care situation and others that do not. However, any area may display particular problems in the array of health services available in relation to the needs of the community being served. Examples might be a shortage of geriatric services in an area with a 'hidden' number of elderly people; or a shortage of educational facilities on drug abuse or alcoholism in areas with a prevalence of these problems. The Australian Government considers each proposal on its merits. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Hospitals and Health Services Commission accepts considerable freedom and variety in local usage and terminology concerning projects submitted to it under the Community Health Program. In relation to New South Wales, the Health Commission of New South Wales views a Community Health Complex as a project serving approximately 60,000 persons and providing a wide range of primary care services together with specialist back-up services. 
It views a Community Health Centre as a project serving a population of up to 20,000 persons and providing, in the main, only primary care services. 
No. 15 Centres and 2 Complexes were included in the approved 1973-74 Community Health Program for New South Wales. These projects are at various stages of development towards full operational status. 
Approval of the above projects was made by the Minister for Health on the recommendation of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission. In formulating its recommendations, the Commission took account of the needs and priorities for the provision of community health services and facilities as submitted by the Health Commission of New South Wales. The Hospitals and Health Services Commission, in consultation with the State Authority, also took account of the benefits of emphasising the allocation of Block Grants under the Community Health Program to integrated regional systems for the provision of needed community health services and facilities. The 2 Community Health Complexes funded in 1 973-74 were part of a regional plan for the Western Metropolitan Region of Sydney. The Centres at Warilla and Cringila were funded as part of a regional plan for the Illawarra Region and the Centre at The Entrance was funded as part of a regional plan for the Central Coast Region. The other Centres were each funded under a specific Grant to meet urgent needs given a high priority by the New South Wales Health Commission. 
) In reaching the decision to fund the projects referred to in (2) above, assessment was made that the proposed services were needed in the area which they would serve. The Australian Government relied heavily on the expert views of the Health Commission of New South Wales in determining the need for these initial facilities. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Investigators are required to sign an undertaking that they will adhere to the conditions for grants, which includecompliance with the Statement on Human Experimentation. 
The Council requires that each application for a research grant involving human experiments be subject to prior scrutiny and approval by the ethics committee of the institution in which the applicant proposes to undertake his research. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
I have written to State Ministers for Health, setting out the suggested contents of the proposed agreements between the Australian and State Governments on the provision of public hospital services, including funding of hospitals. The purpose of my letter was primarily to seek each Health Minister's reaction to the general principles of the proposed agreement, which is based on the Heads of Agreement set out in Schedule 2 of the Health Insurance Act 1 973. I further proposed that once the Health Ministers had given a general indication of their views, officers of my Department and the Health Ministers' Departments might proceed to develop a detailed proposal for our examination. 
The proposals contained in the document are based on the White Paper. 
No. 
The interests of open government have been better served by procedures adopted in this matter than on any other matter handled by any government previous to 1972. There was intensive public discussion on the 'Green Paper' and subsequently the 'White Paper' on the Health Insurance proposal extending over several months. The principles proposed in the letter to the States are set out in Schedule 2 of the Health Insurance Act 1973, as mentioned in paragraph ( 1 ) above. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No. Baiting and trapping is a useful guide to establishing the extent of rat infestations of vessels. It is also a convenient and effective control measure in cases of slight and moderate infestations, and in small areas and compartments such as galleys, lockers and storerooms. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The vessel was in port for 23 days undergoing extensive structural alterations and repairs. Difficulty was experienced in keeping rat guards on mooring lines at all times. The vessel was visited daily to ensure that any guards displaced by winds and tide movements were restored to their positions. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No. Fumigations using methyl bromide are carried out at the Woodman Point Quarantine Station for animal and plant quarantine purposes. The staff engaged in methyl bromide fumigations are trained and have been performing this work for many years. 
-Senator Townley did mention this matter to me while the Senate was sitting this morning. I told him then that I had not knowledge of this. I can only suggest that he put the question on notice. 
-As honourable senators will appreciate I am a frequent reader of the Border Chronicle'. I feel that it is in no way inferior in the information provided, its literary style and its intellectual content to most of the newspapers published in this country. I was therefore rather disturbed when I read the public notice that was inserted in it by the 3 medical practitioners to whom  Senator McLaren  has referred. Those practitioners made the complaints along the lines indicated in the 'Border Chronicle'. I asked my colleague to prepare some notes on this matter after I read the article. It appears that the doctors are referring to the medical services committee of inquiry in South Australia. The committee consists of 5 members of whom 4 are nominated by the Australian Medical Association. The task of this committee is to inquire into and report to the Minister or the director-general regarding the services and the conduct of medical practitioners in connection with their duties in the provision of medical services under the pensioner medical service. 
The committee, of which 80 per cent are members of the Australian Medical Association, was empowered- when this question was referred to it- to seek whatever information it considered relevant in order to enable it to conduct its investigations. It is normal practice for the committee to ask the medical practitioner concerned to forward clinical notes covering pensioner patients listed in the terms of reference. All of the information relevant to these cases is received and kept on a confidential basis. The information is available only to members of the committee, the secretary who is an officer of the Department of Social Security and senior officers of the State branch of the Department of Social Security. It is made available to those people only when the nature of the duties of these officers necessitates that they should have access to this information. The Minister for Social Security believes that the notice inserted by the doctors is couched in most unfortunate terms. It is a pity that they should have placed this notice in a paper such as the Border Chronicle'. The particular request to which they were referring was in fact addressed to  Dr Evans. 
-(Western AustraliaMinister for Repatriation and Compensation)For the information of honourable senators I present an interim statement on the operations of the home savings grant scheme for the year ended 30 June 1974. When the final report is available it will be presented in accordance with statutory requirements. 
I should like to say only a few words because in all the to and fro in the discussion on Tasmania there is still one point which has not been clarified. I might be doing some of our speakers an injustice, although there were many excellent points raised by them, but I do not think it was brought out on this side and it was left to  Senator Hall  to raise this point. The point that  Senator Hall  has raised- and he raised it in the form of a question- is: What precisely is the Liberal Party's economic policy? As I understand it, the gravamen of the Opposition's criticism of the Australian Labor Party is that it is engaging in too much public expenditure but what the Opposition says about Tasmania is that we are engaging in too little public expenditure. 
Is the argument therefore that there ought to be a reduction in the expenditure in all or some of the other States in order to make up for the increased expenditure in Tasmania? If so, which States are they to be and to what extent? If this is not the case, how is the Opposition proposing to us that the Government can couple increased expenditure on Tasmania with a Budget which in toto is reduced? This point has still not been answered and I should be delighted, even at this late hour, if somebody from the Opposition- perhaps  Senator Greenwood,  instead of pursuing his personal vendetta against  Senator Hall-  were to deal with matters of substance and matters of policy and not matters of personality and explain to us precisely what it is that they have in mind on economic policy. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move; 
That leave be given to introduce a Bill for an Act to increase certain amounts of compensation payable to and in respect of seamen. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That leave be given to introduce a Bill for an Act to amend the Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Act 1971-1973, and for other purposes. 
I replied earlier this year to a question from  Senator Keeffe  on this subject. Since then some progress has been made in this matter which the Government believes provides for a better administration of the tribunals making determinations which are so important to people who apply for repatriation benefits. The war pensions entitlement appeal tribunals have been making available to applicants the reasons for their decisions since 1 June last. The intention of the Government is that all such tribunals should make the reasons for their decisions available to applicants. Naturally, some problems have to be overcome in doing so. It is not entirely simple after many years of merely providing a decision to make the appropriate arrangements for the reasons behind the decision to be provided. However steps have been taken to see that the repatriation boards will commence to give reasons for their decisions as from 1 July 1975. At present arrangements are in hand to make the appropriate amendments to the repatriation regulations. 
I appreciate the question that  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson has asked and his interest in the matter. I am aware of the reports from the Philippines and I think that they could be particularly disturbing in view of the fact that contact between Australia and the Philippines is now much greater than it was a few years ago, particularly with the number of regular direct flights between Australia and Manila. Obviously this is a matter with which the Minister for Health himself will have to deal. I shall put to him the matter that  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson has raised today, and as soon as I have received a reply on this matter, which I agree is a matter of some urgency, I shall advise the Senate of what action the Department of Health is taking in order to prevent any possible introduction of cholera into Australia. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
One. 
It is the intention of the Government that medical and hospital treatment will continue to be available to eligible patients through the Repatriation treatment scheme upon implementation of the Health Insurance Program. 
The honourable senator will recall that the Health Insurance Levy Assessment Bill recently rejected in this House, sought to provide certain categories of Repatriation beneficiaries with partial or total relief from payment of the levy. 
Redcliffs Project: Environmental Consequences  Senator Wheeldon-On  30 July 1974,  Senator Jessop  asked me, as the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, the following question without notice: 
Will the Federal Government seek the co-operation of the South Australian Government to comply with the request of the Conservation Council of South Australia that a 3 month public review period be Redcliffs to consider an environmental impact study associated with the Redcliffs Project? 
The Minister for the Environment and Conservation has now furnished me with the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I have just completed discussions with the Minister in South Australia responsible for this matter,  Mr Broomhill,  M.P., during which it was agreed that there should be a public hearing. The report on the environmental consequences of the proposal, prepared by the Consortium which would undertake the project, has been made available to the South Australian Government and this Government. This report will form the basis of the public hearing, which commenced on Tuesday IS October 1974 and is expected to last for a couple of weeks. The report of the Hearing Commissioners will be available in time for its implications to be considered by the South Australian Government before it presents the relevant bill to the South Australian Parliament. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The preferred and recommended method is fumigation with hydrocyanic acid gas. 
Yes. 
M.V. 'Olive Bank': Fumigation (Question No. 214) 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The number of trained full-time quarantine staff (exclusive of medical officers) employed by the Australian Department of Health in Western Australia is 23. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 1 studied a number of welfare matters while in New Zealand last year. I do not propose to table any report. 
It seemed to me that this matter was one of some urgency, and I asked the Minister for Health to let me have a prompt report on the matter, which he has done. 
I do not think it is a change. I think the Minister for Health is always very prompt with his replies. The Minister's reply is: I am aware of the recent outbreak of cholera in the Manila area. The Philippines have been reported by the World Health Organisation consistently as an infected area all this year, and the latest outbreak is a resurgence of endemic disease. For some years Australia has required that passengers returning from overseas, from countries any part of which are infected with cholera, should be in possession of a valid certificate of vaccination against cholera. It was believed that vaccination would completely protect travellers from cholera so that on return to Australia they would be free of the disease and be unable to transmit it to others. Experience of epidemics in other countries has shown that the international spread of cholera is not prevented by vaccination or by prophylactic medication. The World Health Organisation in May 1973 pointed out that insistence on vaccination against cholera, while offering partial protection, did not preclude the possibility of importation of cholera into a country. This occurs because the protection afforded by current cholera vaccines is relatively low- 40 per cent to 60 per cent- and also because the vaccine is ineffective against the development of asymptomatic carriers of the disease. For these reasons the World Health Organisation, since 1973, has not supported vaccination against cholera for international travel. 
It follows that the protection of populations depends mainly on sanitation and other public health measures taken within the country. Australia is fortunate in having good sanitation systems. Experience has shown overseas that in every recent case of importation of cholera into a country where standards of personal hygiene, sanitation and nutrition are satisfactory no secondary cases have occurred. Australia had one imported case of cholera in 1969, and 41 cases in November 1972. The latter outbreak was almost certainly caused by infected food taken on board an aircraft at Bahrein en route to Australia. There were, however, no secondary cases associated with either of these importations. While, therefore, Australia still requires that travellers arriving here by air from overseas countries, any parts of which are infected with cholera, shall be in possession of a certificate of vaccination against cholera, those not in possession of such certification are not isolated in a quarantine station but are given a notice which advises persons who have entered Australia by air from overseas to seek medical opinion if they develop an illness within 14 days of arrival. It is also proposed that by amendment to the Quarantine (General) Regulations vaccination against cholera shall not be required as a condition of admission of any international traveller to this country. Officers of the Department of Health performing quarantine duties at international airports have been notified of this resurgence of cholera in the Manila area and will exercise extra vigilance in regard to passengers arriving from this part of Asia. The Department of Health continues to advise vaccination against cholera for personal protection of Australians travelling overseas and likely to visit cholera infected countries. 
-The Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Bill of 1973 had a rather strange and chequered history. It was introduced into the House of Representatives in March 1973 and was passed without any opposition on 10 April 1973. It then came to the Senate where it was referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs- of which I must confess I was a member at that time- and it was still before that Committee when the Parliament was prorogued. As the Bill had not been passed, the employees of the Australian Government were still receiving very unsatisfactory compensation, and normally efforts would have been made to reintroduce the Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Bill in a form similar to that which had previously come before the Senate and had not been passed. However, as there is at present before the House of Representatives a Bill to provide for national compensation, which from 1 July 1976 will provide cover for all employees, including Commonwealth Government employees, it was decided not to proceed with any radical changes to the existing legislation regarding compensation to Australian Government employees. 
However, as there is quite a considerable injustice being done to these employees at the present time because of the fact that the Act has not been amended for so long, I propose- in fact I think later today- to introduce into this chamber a Bill which will bring the benefits which are at present being paid to Australian Government employees to a level more commensurate with today's costs and with the value of money today than the existing Act provides. But this, I repeat, is in the nature of a transitory provision which is merely meant to take the role of a stop-gap until such time as the more general compensation proposals of the Government have been adopted by the Parliament. 
In answer to a question by  Senator Keeffe  yesterday I said that the repatriation boards would begin giving reasons for their decisions on 1 July 1975. In fact I misinformed the Senate in that answer. The boards will commence giving their reasons for decisions on 1 January 1975, 6 months earlier than the date which I announced. This certainly will mean a considerable amount of extra work for repatriation boards in preparing reasons for their decisions. It would appear from an estimate of the additional work that will be required that an extra board will be necessary in New South Wales and also in Victoria in order to cope with the additional work involved in the new procedure. 
The boards in the other States are not full-time boards. They are part-time boards and it would seem at this stage that the way in which the additional work could be coped with would be by having the boards sitting more frequently than they do at present, or possibly by making one or more of them full-time boards. It does not seem at this stage that apart from in New South Wales and Victoria additional repatriation boards will be required. The great advantage in the requirement that repatriation boards give reasons for their determinations will be that dissatisfied applicants for repatriation benefits will have a much firmer basis on which to found appeals they may subsequently make than would be available if they were, merely told, as in the past, that their applications had been rejected. 
As entitlement appeal tribunals are already making their decisions available and the repatriation boards will do so very early next year, the only tribunal determining entitlements to repatriation benefits which will not be making its reasons for decisions available as from 1 January next year will be the Repatriation Commission. It is proposed and hoped that procedures will be adopted whereby the Repatriation Commission, which is the first stage of appeal from a repatriation board, will also make its reasons for its decisions available. Some complexities are involved because the members of the Commission are also administrative officers of the Repatriation Department but I hope that in the fairly near future I will be able to announce to the Senate that appropriate steps have been taken for the Repatriation Commission also to make its reasons for decisions available. 
I believe that this possibly could be done. At the moment it is not proposed that it will be done. The Bill will be introduced this afternoon. It would be contrary, I think, to the normal practice in relation to compensation Bills to make such provisions retrospective. It is certainly something which I believe could be considered during the committee stages of the Bill. 
I agree that it would seem on the face of it that the absence of orthodontal treatment from the claims which can be made is something of an anomaly in the system. It is obviously not within my province to give any assurances as to what might be done about it, but I will see that the matter is referred to the Minister for Social Security. 
-Thank you. I shall see that it is referred to the Minister for Social Security at the earliest opportunity so that we can have a reply from him on this very important matter. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to increase the rates and amounts of compensation payable under the Seamen's Compensation Act to seamen and their dependants. The Bill will ensure that the monetary rates payable under this Act are kept in line with those contained in the Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Bill. However, I should mention that the proposed amendments will not involve any cost to the Australian Government as payments under the Seamen's Compensation Act are made by the shipowners. The Bill provides for the weekly rates of compensation for total incapacity to be increased from $43 to $57 for a seaman; from $ 1 1 to $ 1 5 for the dependent wife of a seaman; and from $5 to $7 for each dependent child of a totally incapacitated seaman. The maximum weekly amount payable in respect of partial incapacity is to be increased from $43 to $57. 
In addition to the increase in weekly incapacity payments, the Bill provides for the lump sum death benefit, to which the lump sum benefits for specified injuries and maximum compensation are related, to be increased from $14,500 to $20,000. The weekly payment for each dependent child of a deceased seaman will be increased from $5 to $7 and the maximum payable in respect of funeral costs will be increased from $300 to $450. These increases in benefits for our Merchant Navy personnel will be payable on and from the date on which the Bill receives the royal assent. I commend the Bill to the Senate and trust that honourable senators will give it a speedy passage. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator DrakeBrockman)  adjourned. 
-I move 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to provide for increases in benefits payable under the Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Act 1971-1973 which provides workers' compensation for employees of the Australian Government and its statutory authorities. Before outlining the provisions of the Bill I should mention that the Bill would not be necessary but for the Senate's failure to pass the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1973. That Bill was passed without opposition by the House of 
Representatives in April 1973 but its consideration was deferred on several occasions by the Opposition parties in the Senate and it eventually lapsed when the Parliament was prorogued last February. Because of the attitude of the Senate and also because of the Government's intention to introduce a national compensation scheme, as evidenced by the National Compensation Bill 1974 introduced into the House of Representatives on 3 October 1974 by the Honourable L. F. Bowen, Special Minister of State, the Government decided not to persevere with the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill. However, as was announced at that time, it is proposed that the national compensation scheme should be introduced in stages, with the first stage not expected to come into operation until 1 July 1976. Because of this and also because there have been significant increases in the cost of living and in the benefits payable under State workers' compensation legislation since the rates of compensation for Australian Government employees were last increased in November 1972, it is now necessary and indeed, only equitable, for the rates payable under the Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Act to be increased. 
Compensation for total incapacity 
The Act already provides for employees injured on or after 2 November 1972 to receive a weekly compensation payment equal to their normal full sick pay rate during the first 26 weeks of total incapacity for work. However, for long term cases, where the injury was sustained prior to 2 November 1972, and for cases where the injury was sustained on or after that date and total incapacity has exceeded 26 weeks, the compensation is based on fixed weekly rates specified in the Act. The Bill provides for these rates to be increased. Under the Bill, the weekly compensation for a totally incapacitated employee without dependants will be increased from $43 to $57. The additional weekly supplement for a dependent spouse will be increased from $11 to $15 and the weekly supplement for each dependent child will be increased from $5 to $7. 
Compensation for partial incapacity 
In accordance with the increase in the basic weekly rate for a single employee, the maximum amount of compensation generally payable to a partially incapacitated employee will be increased from $43 to $57 a week. 
Compensation for death 
The Bill also provides for increases in the amounts of compensation payable where an injury results in the death of an employee. The basic lump sum payable to dependants will be increased from $14,500 to $20,000. The weekly amount payable in respect of each dependent child of a deceased employee will increase from $5 to $7 and the minimum total amount payable for each child will be increased from $500 to $700. The maximum amount payable in respect of funeral expenses will be increased from $300 to $450. 
Compensation for specified losses 
The lump sums payable under the Act for specified losses will also be increased. The maximum lump sum payment for the more serious scheduled losses will be increased from $14,500 to $20,000 and there will be proportionate increases in lump sum payments for the less serious losses. Payments for loss of the capacity to engage in sexual intercourse and severe and permanent facial disfigurement will increase from $7,250 to $10,000 and compensation for loss of the sense of taste or smell will be increased from $1,450 to $2,000. 
Other increases 
The maximum amount payable for alterations to buildings or vehicles, or repair or replacement of certain aids and appliances will go up from $350 to $500. Finally, the amount of additional compensation payable where an employee requires the constant help or attendance of another person will be increased from $9 to $14 a week. 
Minor amendments 
The opportunity has been taken to make some minor amendments, some of a drafting nature and others to correct errors or anomalies, in what is comparatively new legislation. The first of these amendments will ensure that a 'prescribed Court', as defined in the Act, will include the County Court in the State of Victoria. Consequent upon the enactment of the Remuneration Tribunal Act 1973, the Bill will amend the provisions in the Act relating to salary and allowances for the Commissioner for Employees' Compensation and the Compensation Tribunal. 
At present, a claimant cannot recover any costs he incurs in connection with a request to the Commissioner for reconsideration of a determination. However, a claimant is entitled to costs if after he has instituted proceedings before a compensation tribunal or a prescribed court, the Commissioner, on his own motion, reconsiders and varies or revokes the determination and thereby renders the proceedings before the tribunal or court abortive. Under a new provision contained in the Bill the Australian Government will be liable to reimburse any costs reasonably incurred by a claimant in relation to a determination which is varied or revoked by another determination as a result of a request to the Commissioner for a reconsideration; such a liability will be imposed when the second determination is more favourable to the claimant or, if it is less favourable to the claimant, when he was not the party who made the request for reconsideration of the first determination. 
The Bill contains some amendments to the provisions in the Act relating to the calculation of an employee's average weekly earnings to remove some anomalies which have come to notice. Some amendments of a consequential nature are also included because of the enactment of the Defence Forces Retirement and Death Benefits Act 1973. These amend the provisions under which the portion of a superannuation pension not attributable to the employee's contributions is taken into account when determining the weekly compensation payable for total or partial incapacity for work. 
Amendment of other Act 
Honourable senators may also care to note that the Bill provides for amendments to the Schedule to the United States Naval Communication Station (Civilian Employees) Act 1971-1973. This Act is a companion piece of legislation which extends the terms of the Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Act to civilian employees employed by the United States Navy in connection with the naval communication station. The amendments to the Schedule are necessary to apply the amendments to the principal Act to these employees. 
Application of amendments 
The intention is that the amending legislation will come into operation on the day on which it receives the royal assent and the Bill provides for the increased weekly payments to apply on and from that date, notwithstanding that the payments relate to an injury sustained before that date. The increased lump sum payments for death and specified losses will apply on and from the date of commencement of the amending Act in all cases where the death occurs or the loss is suffered on or after that date, even though the death or the loss may have resulted from an injury sustained before that date. Increases in other benefits will apply in a similar manner. 
Cost of increased benefits 
The total cost of the increases to which I have referred is estimated to be $700,000 for the remainder of this financial year and $1.2m for a full year. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator DrakeBrockman)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes; consultation fees in connection with medical treatment of repatriation beneficiaries by Local Medical Officers were increased with effect from 1 July 1 974. The new fees are: 
Surgery consultation- $4. 10 Domiciliary visit- $6. 1 0 
The fees are not determined by the Medical Fees Tribunal. They are determined by the Government having regard to submissions made by the AMA from time to time and are currently set on a different basis from the fees for benefit purposes determined by the Medical Fees Tribunal. 
The service required by and provided for repatriation beneficiaries is a full scale general practitioner service of equivalent standard to that provided to other patients in the community. 
The determination of these fees will continue to be a matter for negotiation between the Government and the AMA. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The number of medical benefits organisations and hospital benefits organisations registered under the National Health Act as at 30 September 1974, excluding duplicate registrations because of multi-state operations, is 79 and 85 respectively. These figures do not, of course, include the numerous branch offices and agencies maintained by the organisations. 
and (3) These matters are at present under consideration in connection with the discussions taking place with private health insurance funds. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) As I have mentioned before, the cost of the Australian Health Insurance Program will be about the same as the sum of the present private health insurance scheme plus pensioner hospital and medical benefits and Repatriation medical services costs. The last costing carried out is in the White Paper: 'The Australian Health Insurance Program'. 
The rate of inflation and any other causes of increased costs effect equally both the existing scheme and the new Program. The new Program will cover everyone in the community unlike the present scheme which covers only 87 per cent of the population leaving between one and one and a half million people unprotected. The provision of adequate cover for these people would represent an enormous increase in costs for the present scheme and this is one indication of the cost-saving nature of the new Program. 
No such estimate has been made in relation to the existing scheme or the new Program.  Senator Baume  would be interested to know that previous Liberal/Country Party Health Ministers always refused to make any forward projections of the cost of private health insurance and, in fact, would only provide detailed figures for a financial year some several months after the conclusion of that financial year. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: (1-3) The Minister for Social Security has not expressed the view the honourable senator attributes to him. The Government's policy on 'direct' or 'bulk' billing is set out in paragraphs 3.15 to 3.22 of the White Paper titled 'The Australian Health Insurance Program', which was tabled in the Senate by the Minister then representing the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  on 13 
November, 1973. The three billing methods which will be available are: 
Billing of the patient, who pays the doctor and then claims benefits. (ii.) Billing of the patient, who submits the unpaid account and receives the appropriate benefits in the form of a cheque payable to the doctor. 
Assignment by the patient to the doctor of the benefit for a particular service where the doctor is prepared to accept the benefit as full payment for the service. The doctor would then claim the appropriate benefits and the patient would not have to pay anything. 
The Government believes that the assignment of benefit or direct billing' method should be available to the patients of those doctors who are willing to adopt it and that the method has advantages in terms of convenience, prompt payment and expense reduction which will appeal to doctors. The assignment of benefit' method is particularly important for low income patients and for pensioners who meet the means test applied for the purpose of the Pensioner Medical Service. In continuance of the current policy and arrangements whereby such pensioners can receive medical services without charge, the Government will ask all medical practitioners to make this arrangement for every pensioner who produces a Pensioner Medical Service entitlement card and not to make any charge to the pensioner. An exception applies in the case of unreferred specialist services. The Government is confident that the sense of responsibility of the great majority of doctors can be relied upon to make the system work for the benefit of pensioners, as is the case of the Pensioner Medical Service. The Government holds the view that 'direct billing' is important in respect of those persons who would find it difficult to lodge claims themselves or to pay anything for the service due to their financial circumstances. However, doctors are free to choose the methods of billing in respect of all their patients, including pensioners and low income earners, and there is no direction as to which method they should use. Doctors' freedom to choose their billing methods is quite clearly stated in the White Paper and has often been repeated since. If the majority of doctors do not use the 'direct billing' method, the alternative is that they will bill their patients as currently generally applies. 
Visit by Minister for Social Security to New Zealand: Report (Question No. 202) 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Quarantine procedures recommended by the World Health Organization are contained in a lengthy publication entitled- International Health Regulations 1969. 
The procedures in Australia substantially conform with those recommended by the World Health Organization. Where there is a difference in requirement the procedure in Australia is generally more demanding. For example, Australia maintains quarantine stations for the isolation of travellers who do not conform to entry requirements. Other countries adopt a system of personal surveillance which permits free movement in the community subject to periodic check of medical condition. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
The vessel was not fumigated because it was partly loaded with cargo and also contained muriate of potash. Fumigation with hydrocyanic acid gas would have been dangerous. 
A further fumigation order was prepared but was not acted upon. The Director was satisfied that fumigation was not justified in the light of the estimated presence of one rat on the vessel by two Quarantine Inspectors who made independent inspections on his specific instructions. Routine inspection after the discharge of cargo at Bunbury confirmed that the vessel was not rat infested. 
M.V. 'Lorana': Fumigation (Question No. 215) 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
No. 
No. 
The Director decided on 19 June 1974 that it was not necessary to fumigate the vessel because: 
rat indications were confined to the mid section and forepeak of the vessel; 
baiting with 1080 poison resulted in the recovery of 4 dead rats and 7 partially eaten baits. Another carcase was recovered several days later; and 
the vessel was due to be fumigated with methyl bromide for grain pests under the Exports (Grain) Regulations. This fumigation also kills rats. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to incorporate my second reading speech in Hansard. 
-On 15 August  Senator Martin  directed a question to me as Minister representing the Minister for Social Security concerning the criteria of eligibility for the payment of special benefit to supporting fathers. The Minister for Social Security has told me that special benefit may be paid to a person who, because of age, physical or mental disability or domestic circumstances, is unable to earn a sufficient livelihood for himself or herself and his or her dependants. The maximum rate of benefit cannot exceed the maximum rate of unemployment or sickness benefit. Any supporting father suffering hardship as a result of having to remain at home from work to look after his children may qualify for special benefit. It is not essential that the children be sick. It could well be the case that healthy young children who have been deprived of their mother's care because of her having to go to hospital, because of her desertion of the husband or whatever other reason it might be, need constant care and attention in the same way as do sick children. In most cases the mother ultimately does return home or some assistance is obtained from a social worker, which means that the father has found a satisfactory solution to the problem and the special benefit is required to be paid for only a short period. 
At the moment grants of special benefit for supporting fathers are approved by the DirectorGeneral of Social Security or his delegate. The question of the circumstances under which special benefit may be paid has been under examination for some time now by the Department of Social Security, as probably  Senator Martin  would gather. The examination is nearing completion, and when it has been completed it is expected that it will be possible for the wide range of claims already determined in the various States to be extended further. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In his Budget Speech the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  announced the Government's intention of increasing additional payments for children of pensioners and beneficiaries by 50c a week to $5.50 a week, raising supplementary assistance and supplementary allowance, for pensioners and sickness beneficiaries, by $1 a week to $5 a week, and increasing double orphan's pension by $ 1 a week to $ 1 1 a week. The Treasurer also announced the proposed introduction of a new allowance called handicapped child's allowance. This allowance will be payable at the rate of $ 10 a week to parents or guardians of physically or mentally handicapped children who are cared for in a family environment. This initiative will, I am sure, meet with wide acclaim. I will be providing further details of the benefit later in my speech. 
The purpose of the Bill, which is the third amending Social Services Bill introduced this year, is to give effect to these measures and to some important amendments which were foreshadowed earlier this year. The latter concern changes in the residence qualification for invalid pensions, widows' pensions and supporting mothers' benefits, payment of additional amounts for children in the care of Class B widow pensioners, the payment of additional benefit for de facto wives of unemployment and sickness beneficiaries and the repeal of the 'not deserving' and 'character' provisions of the Act. The provisions of this Bill follow the record increases in the basic rates of pensions, benefits and allowances which were outlined to the Senate on 30 July in my second reading speech on the Social Services Bill (No. 2) 1974. 
Honourable senators will recall that the standard rate of pension was increased by $5 a week to $3 1 a week and the individual married rate by $3 a week to $25.75 a week. The new rates were paid on 8 August in the case of age and invalid pensions and on 13 August in the case of widows' pensions and supporting mothers' benefits. The increases in unemployment and sickness benefits operated in respect of the benefit week ending on 31 July 1974 and each benefit week thereafter. Had we waited until the Budget sittings of Parliament to make these increases, pensioners and beneficiaries would have had to wait longer than usual for payment at the higher rates. This is because the Budget timetable was put back following the May elections which were forced upon us by the Opposition. 
With the increases now proposed single age and invalid pensioners eligible for the standard rate of pension plus supplementary assistance will receive a maximum of $36 a week. Couples eligible for the married rate plus supplementary assistance will receive a maximum of $28.25 a week, individually, or $56.50 a week combined. Single or widowed pensioners, including supporting mothers, who are eligible for supplementary assistance and have, say, 2 children, will receive a maximum of $5 1 a week. This takes into account guardian's or mother's allowance at the lower rate of $4 a week. The total amount payable is increased to $53 a week if the pensioner or supporting mother has the custody, care and control of a child under six or an invalid child. I should explain that, in future, supplementary assistance will be paid subject to the principle that the total rent allowance will not exceed the actual rent paid. This principle will extend also to supplementary allowance which is paid to sickness beneficiaries who pay rent and who have received sickness benefit for more than 6 weeks. The Government has decided, however, that no existing payments will be reduced as a result of the operation of this principle. 
When delivering the second reading speech on the Social Services Bill (No. 4) 1973, which introduced double orphan's pension, the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  said that this pension would remove an area of human neglect that should not have been allowed to continue. Double orphan's pension is paid in respect of a child both of whose parents, or adoptive parents, are dead or where one is dead and the whereabouts of the other are unknown to the claimant. The pension has proved of considerable assistance to people caring for children who, in the circumstances outlined, have permanently lost all contact with their parents. As already indicated it has been decided that it should be increased by $ 1 a week to $ 1 1 a week. There is one matter concerning this pension on which I feel I should comment. State welfare departments make financial assistance available to people caring for children who are under State control. It is my understanding that following the introduction of double orphan's pension adjustments were made to some of these payments. Double orphan's pension is akin to child endowment and it was never envisaged by the Australian Government that it should relieve the States of expenditure in this field. I accordingly hope that the States will see fit to reexamine their practices in this regard. 
I would now like to give the Senate some details of the Government's proposals relating to the handicapped child's allowance. The rate of the allowance will be $10 a week and it will be paid where, because of the nature and severity of the handicap, the child requires constant care and attention in the family home. It will not be subject to any means test and it will not be treated as income in assessing other social service benefits. The allowance is designed specifically to assist parents and guardians who have a handicapped child under 16 years of age requiring constant attention and who, for reasons that all such persons will understand, prefer to provide this attention at home rather than place the child in an institution. 
It is recognised that most persons who have a severely handicapped child in the home incur additional expenditure. The allowance will help them to meet the extra costs involved. It may be also used towards the cost of obtaining services that will afford some relief from the stresses that are experienced, especially by the mother, in these situations. This new allowance should be seen in the context of the broad program of education, training and general welfare for handicapped children being developed by the Government. The $10 a week allowance is intended to be supplementary to what is being done under that program. 
Parents or guardians who care for a handicapped child at home will be encouraged to take full advantage of the facilities that are being made available under the general welfare program and the child 's attendance at a day school or training centre will not affect eligibility for payment of the allowance. The allowance will be paid as an addition to child endowment and will therefore will be available either by cheque at four-weekly intervals, or paid into a bank or similar account each 12 weeks. It is estimated that some 20,000 children will qualify for the allowance and that the annual cost will be approximately $10m. I sincerely hope that the States do not take the same attitude in respect of this benefit as they have in respect of double orphan's pensions, that is, to reduce or terminate any payments that they may now be making to people who will qualify for the allowance. 
As a further measure to assist the handicapped, the Bill also introduces an incentive allowance for disabled people employed in sheltered workshops. This allowance will be paid to all workshop employees who are receiving sheltered employment allowance as an alternative to invalid pension. For some time the Government has been acutely aware of the disincentives and anomalies that occur when a person who is receiving an invalid pension and supplementary assistance enters a sheltered workshop. As soon as he earns more than $1 a week at the workshop, his supplementary assistance must be reduced by the excess amount until it is cancelled when his earnings reach $5 a week. The implications of this are obvious. A significant number of sheltered workshop employees are paid no more than $ 1 a week because voluntary organisations conducting sheltered workshops are disinclined to pay more until the person is able to earn in excess of $5 a week and thus derive some monetary advantage from his earnings. 
As well as providing handicapped people with the opportunity to augment their social security benefits, sheltered workshops perform what are perhaps the even more important functions of providing a social environment away from their homes or hostels and preparing handicapped people for employment in outside industry. To encourage more people to enter sheltered employment and to eliminate the disincentive effect that supplementary assistance has on earnings, the incentive allowance of $5 a week will be means test free and will be paid in lieu of supplementary assistance to all those who are receiving sheltered employment allowance. This will mean that eligible sheltered workshop employees will continue to receive an incentive allowance, without reduction, for so long as they retain some entitlement to the sheltered employment allowance. 
I now turn to the amendments which were foreshadowed earlier this year. At present, to qualify for an invalid pension a person who becomes permanently incapacitated or blind in Australia must have resided in Australia for a continuous period of 5 years at any time. On the other hand the residence qualification for widow's pension is immediately satisfied if a woman and her husband were residing permanently in Australia when she became a widow. Permanent incapacity or blindness can be just as unforeseen as widowhood. 
Accordingly, it is proposed to abolish the residence requirement for invalid pension where permanent incapacity or blindness occurred in Australia. The only persons who will need to satisfy a period of residence will be those who become permanently incapacitated or blind outside Australia, except during a period of temporary absence. For such persons a period of 10 years continuous residence at any time will continue to be required, as for age pension. As honourable senators may know this period is reduced where a person has lived in Australia for periods aggregating more than 10 years and has had a period of continuous residence of not less than 5 years. 
It is also proposed to amend the residence qualifications for widow's pension and supporting mother's benefit. Under existing conditions women whose husbands die overseas may qualify for a widow's pension immediately on their return to Australia if they have resided here for a continuous period of not less than 10 years at any time. However, cases have arisen where Australian women have been widowed on account of desertion or divorce while residing overseas and, upon their return to Australia, have had to wait a period of 5 years before becoming eligible for widow's pension, notwithstanding that they may have lived in Australia for most of their lives. Similarly, unmarried Australian girls who give birth to a child while residing overseas are required to serve a period of 5 years' residence in 
Australia on their return before qualifying for supporting mother's benefit. This applies to married women who separate from their husbands while residing overseas. 
To be consistent with the residence requirement for de jure widows it is proposed to enable any woman who becomes a widow or a supporting mother as defined in the Social Services Act while residing overseas to be residentially qualified for widow's pension or supporting mother's benefit, as appropriate, immediately on her return to Australia providing she has been continuously resident in Australia for not less than 10 years at any time. On passage of this Bill the residence qualification for widow's pension will be satisfied if a woman and her husband were residing permanently in Australia when she became a 'widow'. In other cases, 5 years' continuous residence immediately preceding lodgment of the claim will be required, but this will be waived where the woman became a 'widow' overseas if she has lived in Australia for a continuous period of 10 years at any time. Claimants for supporting mother's benefit will be required to satisfy similar conditions. 
We also propose to correct an anomaly concerning the position of class B widow pensioners. Perhaps I should first explain the basic difference between the classes of widows. A woman with a child of her own or a child who entered her care before she became a widow is a class A widow and attracts payment of a mother's allowance and additional pension for the children. A class B widow is one who has no child of her own or has no child who entered her care before she became a widow and who is not less than 50 years of age. A woman who ceases to be a class A widow because her qualifying child turns sixteen or ceases to be a full time student, may become a class B widow if she is at least 45 years of age at that time. 
Class B widows at present receive the same basic pension as class A widows but they do not receive the mother's allowance nor the additional pension for children. On the other hand an unmarried woman may be granted an age pension at age 60 or an invalid pension and, in addition, receive additional pension for each child in her care, and guardian's allowance irrespective of whether she is the mother of the children and irrespective of the date the children entered her care. lt is therefore proposed to enable a mother's allowance and additional pension for children to be payable to class B widows who have the custody, care and control of any child. 

 Mr Acting Deputy President, one of the more objectionable forms of discrimination in the Social Services Act is the treatment accorded de facto wives of unemployment and sickness beneficiaries. While de facto wives of pensioners are treated for pension purposes in the same way as legal wives if the relationship has existed for not less than 3 years, de facto wives of beneficiaries only attract additional payments if they are accepted as unpaid housekeepers, that is, if they are keeping house for the beneficiary and one or more of his children, provided they are substantially dependent on the beneficiary and not employed by him. In such cases additional benefit equivalent to the amount for a spouse may be paid. It is proposed henceforth that additional benefit be paid in respect of de facto wives of unemployment and sickness beneficiaries on a basis similar to that for de facto wives of pensioners, thus removing an unfair discrimination which now exists. Additional benefit will accordingly be paid if the parties have been living together on a normal domestic basis for not less than 3 years. Where a stable relationship exists, but is of less than 3 years standing, consideration will be given to the payment of special benefit to the de facto wife. 
One thing which has inhibited the best kind of administration of the Social Services Act has been the remnants of the infamous 'poor law' mentality which remain in the Act. The Act still contains provisions which require that a pension shall not be granted to a person unless he or she is of good character or if he or she is classed as not deserving a pension. These provisions are anachronisms reflecting undesirable moralising attitudes and are contrary to the philosophy of the Government. This Bill repeals them. The Department of Social Security will continue to review the Social Services Act to see whether there are any other provisions of a similar nature which should be eliminated. 
The Bill also varies the provisions relating to training and living away from home allowances which are payable to handicapped persons undergoing vocational training as part of their rehabilitation program. This is necessary in order to bring these allowances into line with those payable to trainees under the national employment and training system which was recently introduced by my colleague the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  Under the NEAT system trainees will receive an amount based on the average adult male weekly award wage, and adjusted quarterly. For an adult trainee this is currently $93.44 a week. Proportionate amounts are payable for part-time trainees and persons under 21 years of age. At present rehabilitees- I mention in passing that this Government is coining not only new legislation but also a new vocabulary- receive a rehabilitation allowance equivalent to the invalid pension rate plus an additional allowance of $8 a week for full-time trainees and $4 a week for part-time trainees. Thus single adult trainees have been receiving a maximum of $39 a week, excluding supplementary assistance. In the case of a married person with 2 children the allowances would amount to $69.50 a week. Continuation of these rates is obviously inequitable. 
The May 1 974 Report of the Committee of Inquiry into Labour Market Training- the Cochrane Committee- on which the NEAT system is largely based, recognises this anomaly and contains a recommendation that the levels of allowances payable under a labour market training scheme should be applicable to trainees under the Australian Government Rehabilitation Service. The Bill therefore provides for the abolition of rehabilitation and training allowances in their present form and gives authority for the determination of training allowances which can be adjusted quarterly in keeping with those that will be payable under the NEAT scheme. In the few cases where a rehabilitee would be better ofT by remaining on his pension or benefit during training, that is, a married man with a large family, or for other reasons would prefer to do so, provision has been made for him to elect to have his pension or benefit continued during the training period. 
We will come to that later. Living away from home allowance is currently payable to rehabilitees required to live away from their usual place of residence. The present rates are $ 16 a week for persons with dependants and $10 in other cases. The rate under the NEAT system is 25 per cent of the adult training allowance, to the nearest half dollar, payable to a full-time trainee. The Bill gives authority for a similar rate to be paid to rehabilitees who qualify. The annual cost of these increases will be in the vicinity of $350,000 in a full year and $260,000 in 1974-75. 
I should say finally that there are some minor consequential amendments to be made to the Social Services Act as a result of the Government's decision to abolish broadcast listeners' and television viewers' licences. These licences have been available at concessional rates to pensioners who were qualified for Australian 
Government 'fringe' benefits such as the pensioner medical service providing they were living alone, or with another eligible person or persons, or with another person whose income did not exceed a specified limit. In future no pensioner, or indeed any other member of the community, will be required to pay for the privilege of using his own radio or television set. It is estimated that the cost of the social service proposals in this Bill will be $20m in 1974-75 and $33m in a full year. In accordance with the usual practice the increases provided for pensioners under this Bill will operate from and including the pay-days following royal assent. Increases for unemployment and sickness beneficiaries will, as usual, operate in respect of the benefit week ending on the date of the royal assent and each benefit week thereafter. The provisions relating to the new handicapped child's allowance will come into operation on 30 December 1 974. This will allow time for the completion of administrative arrangements, including the printing of necessary forms.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
in reply- I appreciate the congratulations of  Senator Marriott.  I realise that he was so magnetised by his admiration for me that he found it difficult to engage in the prognostications of gloom which he found necessary to incorporate in the rest of his otherwise sensible remarks. I though that the congratulatory parts of his speech were eminently sensible but some of the others were not quite so useful a contribution to the deliberations of this chamber. There are several things which perhaps ought to be commented on very briefly- perhaps rather more briefly than  Senator Marriott  commented on them. They are, first of all, that whatever the rate of inflation may be the increase in repatriation benefits while the Labor Government has been in office has been at a much greater rate that the rate of inflation. The increase has not been merely keeping up with inflation. It has gone a long way ahead of inflation. 
In fact, among the benefits which this Government has increased- not only in these proposals but also in other proposals- have been the miserly allowances given by the previous Government to veterans of the Vietnam War. As a Party our position has been that although we were opposed to that war we believed that those Australians who were conscripted to fight in it were entitled to adequate repatriation benefits of a much greater nature than those given to them by the people who sent them off to that war. I must say that there is something of a syndrome to be found in these things. Just recently in New Zealand I happened to meet  Senator Vance  Hartke, the  Chairman  of the United States Senate Veteran Affairs Committee. He was one of the first members of the United States Congress to come out in total opposition to American participation in the Vietnam War.  Senator Hartke.  as  Chairman  of the United States Senate Veteran Affairs Committee, was responsible for a Bill which passed through both Houses of the United States Congress, giving adequate repatriationtype benefits to the American veterans of the Vietnam War. That Bill was vetoed by that great patriot and exponent of the Vietnam War, former  President  Nixon. I think something of a syndrome can be found. The generosity of the Governments in benefits to the veterans of the Vietnam War is in inverse proportion to their enthusiasm for sending conscripts to fight in it. We are proud of our record on both issues. We did not believe in sending the conscripts there, but when they were sent there they were entitled to receive adequate compensation for what they suffered as a result of serving in that war. 

 Senator Marriott has said that the Repatriation Act should be consolidated. He has mentioned the fact that this Bill goes part of the way, which indeed it does. Since I became Minister I have been concerned to have a consolidated Repatriation Act prepared. Part of that consolidation was accomplished, I believe, insofar as the amendments to various Acts were dealt with here in the one Bill. At the moment one of the problems which we have is finding sufficient time for the draftsmen to prepare these Bills. The weight of legislation- important, necessary and overdue legislation- which this Government has introduced means that the draftsmen do not have the same time available as they had in the  23  years of lackadaisical, anti-Labor government. If the Opposition when in Government had been concerned about consolidating the Repatriation Act, there were  23  wasted years in which it could have done this instead of fiddling around doing so many unnecessary things. 
When  Senator Marriott  apparently grudgingly supports these proposals but at the same time says that we must beware because they are inflationary and that the Government must take heed and be careful, and also makes some suggestion about the reduction of pensions at some future time, I think one clearly sees the thinking of the anti-Labor Parties on inflation. If the Opposition became the Government it would slash Bills such as the Bill which is before the Senate tonight which increases the benefits payable to the veterans of this country. The Opposition regards it as inflationary. I hope that every Returned Services League sub-branch in Australia is presented with a copy of  Senator Marriott's  speech on this question so that they can understand what  Senator Marriott,  speaking on behalf of the 
Opposition, believes causes inflation and the sort of thing which he suggests should be done to stop inflation. I thank  Senator Marriott  once again for his congratulations and the Opposition for its cooperation in allowing the speedy passage of this Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
In many respects I find this debate rather curious. On the one hand it would seem to indicate some sort of Scandinavianisation of Australia whereby the conservative Opposition attempts to outbid the social democratic government in the social services which it has - 
-Senator Withers, with all the erudition which befits the Leader of the Liberal Party in the Senate, said 'I thought you were a democratic socialist', which, of course, is the same thing. The terms 'social democrat' and 'democratic socialist' are the same. 
I refer the honourable senator to any standard text on the subject. I could have fooled him. I am sure that I could have. I am sure that there would be very few people who could not fool  Senator Withers.  I find it very easy to do that. I assure  Senator Withers  that the words 'social democrat' and 'democratic socialist' have precisely the same meaning. 
I will use whichever term I choose to use. For example, the Social Democratic Party of Sweden is a democratic socialist party. It describes itself as such.  Senator Withers  may or may not like it, but that is its terminology. That is that Party's name and that is the name which I think it will continue to use even if someone as easy to fool as  Senator Withers  does not like it. 
-Yes, I do believe in democratic socialism and social democracy. I think the honourable senator will find that they are interchangeable terms. 
-Senator Withers does not know that, but I think most other honourable senators know that. Apparently, what honourable senators opposite are putting forward to us tonight is the proposition that the Government is being miserly in the expenditure of public funds; that, in fact, we have a Scroogelike attitude towards the expenditure of taxpayers' money on social services. We have been told that if Opposition senators were in government they would be much more lavish and the present miserable amounts spent by this Government on social services would be greatly extended. The proposals contained in our Bill that is before the Senate at the present time provide for an annual expenditure of $33m. The estimates by the Opposition and the Government of the cost of the proposals which the Opposition has put forward for increased benefits range between $25m and $3Sm per annum. That is approximately double the expenditure under the proposal which the Government is putting forward. 
We have asked the question before: What is the Opposition's economic policy? I point out that it is no use for  Senator Martin  to say that she knows someone will raise that question and, having said that she knows someone will raise the question, to think that she has succeeded in disposing of the problem, because I state that somebody will raise the question. I will raise it now. I would like the Opposition to tell us some time precisely what is its economic policy. This is the same question as was asked during the debate on the subsidy for Tasmania. We have even had  Senator Jessop  tonight deploring the increases in postal charges. Apparently, we are to take it from the Opposition, if  Senator Jessop  is a spokesman for some element within the OppositionI am sure that there must be some loose strand on whose behalf he speaks- that the Opposition is opposed to increases in postal charges. If that were the case there would be a decrease in the revenue of the Government. But we are told that we ought to be doubling our expenditurepossibly more than doubling it or possibly somewhat less than doubling it- as proposed in the Social Services Bill (No. 3) which is before us tonight. We have heard  Senator Marriott  warning us during the debate on the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill that we must be very careful. 
I am not out of order. I am in order because this is relevant to the discussion. The same sort of proposition was put before. 
I thought that somebody might raise this question; so I have the Standing Orders in front of me. If the honourable senator refers to standing order 413 he will see that it says: 
No  Senator shall  allude to any debate or proceedings of the same Session unless such allusion be relevant to the matter under discussion. 
This is clearly relevant because it is relevant to the relationship between expenditure on social services and inflation. It is no use for  Senator Marriott  to say one minute that the Government must be very careful and that these additional moneys that are being spent on repatriation are inflationary and for  Senator Guilfoyle  to say the next minute that the Government ought to be doubling its expenditure under the Social Services Bill because somehow this is necessary. If it is inflationary in one case, it is inflationary in the other case. 
I am yet to detect what is the Opposition 's policy on inflation. The Opposition has raised the matter of inflation tonight. I would like to know what its members are saying. How it is going to cut $ 1 ,000m from Government expenditure? Yet the Opposition would spend more on Tasmania. If  Senator Jessop  is a spokesman for the OppositionI assume that he was put up as a spokesman for the Opposition- the Opposition will cut down the revenue from postal charges and it will increase the payments under the Social Services Bill. So from where will this $ 1 ,000m come? The amount involved must be much more than $ 1,000m because it will be $ 1,000m plus what the Opposition will spend on Tasmania, plus what it will spend on social services, plus what it will give back in the reduced postal charges which I take it  Senator Jessop,  on behalf of the Liberal Party, has undertaken the Opposition will reduce if the unhappy day ever comes when it is in Government. But that is so obscure a possibility that I will not waste the time of the Senate developing it at too great a length. 
Let us have a look at this Bill which the Opposition has said is so miserable. It does not only add 50c or whatever amount was mentioned to the pension. Members of the Opposition seem to have overlooked these matters in their rather churlish approach to what they see as our miserliness when compared with their tremendous generosity, their free wheeling approach to the public purse whereby no expenditure is too great for the Liberal and Country Parties. They say: Let us forget about the $ 1,000m. The sky is the limit as far as we are concerned'. We have been told that tonight by the Liberal Party. It believes in doubling the social security payments under this Bill. 
But look at the proposals we are putting forward. We are providing for an increase of 50c a week to $5.50 a week in the rate of additional payments for children of pensioners, supporting mothers and unemployment and sickness beneficiaries; an increase of $ 1 a week to $5 a week in the rate of supplementary assistance and supplementary allowance; the removal of the residence requirement for invalid pension where permanent incapacity or blindness occurs in Australia; changes in the residence qualifications for widows' pensions and supporting mothers' benefits to permit a woman who becomes a widow or supporting mother while absent from Australia to obtain a pension or benefit on return to Australia if she has lived in Australia for 10 years continually at any time; payment of a mother's allowance and an additional pension for the children of class D widows; and the repeal of the 'character' and the 'not deserving' provisions of the Act. 
I am enumerating these because we have been told that there are one or two things in the Bill. There are a lot of things in the Bill other than those which Opposition speakers were gracious enough to refer to. In addition we are providing for the payment of additional benefits to the de facto wives of unemployment and sickness beneficiaries where the relationship has existed for not less than 3 years; an increase of $ 1 to $ 1 1 a week in the rate of double orphan's pension; the introduction of a handicapped children's allowance of $10 a week- the introduction of that allowance; a means-test-free incentive allowance to $5 a week in lieu of supplementary assistance for people receiving the sheltered unemployment allowance; and changes in the rehabilitation provisions to make training and living away from home allowances payable at rates comparable with those under the national unemployment and training system. 
I can understand  Senator Martin's  desire to dissociate herself from the previous LiberalCountry Party Government. Anybody would. She can say that she was not here then so she is not responsible. But that cannot be said of very many people sitting on the Opposition benches at present. Some of them were here for part of that time, some were here for most of the time, and some of them were here for all of the time that the previous Liberal Party-Country Party Government was in office. Let us look at its record with regard to widows ' pensions. (Opposition senators interjecting)- 
It is different now that honourable senators opposite are in Oppositionit is very different- and it will stay different for a long time. Honourable senators will remember what the situation was for a deserted wife trying to obtain a widow's pension. Under the aggregation of parties which occupied the government benches for 23 miserable years, she had to prove to the then Department of Social Services that she had taken every available step to track down her absconding husband. She could not just go along and say: 'I have been deserted; I cannot find my husband '. She had to prove, and go through all sorts of rigmarole to do it, that every possible step had been taken to find her absconding husband and obtain a maintenance award against him. 
It is not a very long time that this Government has been in office but I know that a number of Opposition senators have aged a great deal in that period of little over 1 8 months. But it is still a little too soon, I would suggest, in all decency for a party which tolerated and maintained that situation to come along and complain about our lack of generosity towards these people. I suggest that it ill behoves the Opposition to talk in these terms. I come back again to what the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  said in another place when a similar amendment was proposed there. He said that the Government did not accept the amendment but promised to give considerationwe have made a promise to give considerationto the proposal. In the meantime the special benefit is available at the same rate as widow's pension and there are certain circumstances in which the special benefit is made available. 
I do not wish to detain the Senate on this issue but I do wish to say this: If anything has illustrated the total humbug of the Opposition it is its whole approach to economic policy. It can stump the country talking glibly about cutting out $ 1,000m of expenditure and every time a social security provision comes before this Parliament say it wants to increase the provision. Every time some local interest, for instance in Tasmania, says that it wants some special benefit, the Opposition promises to give it. Every time some group of farmers says that it wants the reintroduction of the superphosphate bounty the Opposition promises it. At the same time it will carry on as though it is going to reduce the expenditure of this Government. It is an Opposition which is totally devoid of any economic policy. 
If it wants to have any plausibility at all I believe that its proper position is to stand up in this Parliament, as its ideological predecessors used to do, and say that social security payments should not be made at all because people were only hanging around the pubs spending their pensions. This is the sort of thing it used to say. I believe the Opposition would be much more consistent if it stuck to that rather than coming along here and performing as though it was the founder of the welfare State while on the other hand saying that it stands for a surplus Budget. The Opposition cannot have it both ways but certainly it will have to explain what its policy is. It cannot say it is going to make a $ 1,000m reduction and then on a social security Bill, or something else of this nature, come along and say: We are going to increase whatever payments you want'. On this Bill which we have before us at the moment it says that it will approximately double the Government's expenditure when already the Bill exceeds by far in generosity anything that the miserable collection of parties which made up the previous Government produced in its 23 years of misrule. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator Guilfoyle's amendment)  be added. 
-The question which  Senator Jessop  asks has been asked by a number of people.  Mr Justice  Toose has certainly been making a most thorough inquiry into the repatriation system since the previous Government appointed him. My last correspondence with  His  Honour was to the effect that the Government would like to have a report by the end of March next year.  Mr Justice  Toose has undertaken to provide it. I can only assume from this that his report is near completion and I am sure that all of us will be very interested to see this report when it is presented. 
in reply- Thank you,  Mr President,  for summoning honourable senators to hear what I have to say, but I am afraid that they will not find it terribly interesting. 
It would be rather difficult to give too many deathless phrases on the topic which is now before us. I appreciate the co-operation of the Opposition in giving a speedy passage to both the Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Bill and the Seamen's Compensation Bill which  Senator DrakeBrockman  quite correctly has taken together. Certainly I agree with all that he has said in his remarks during the second reading debate of the Bills. Although I am one of those who believe that there are occasions when the Senate is obstructive, I do not believe that the approach which the Senate took to the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill is an example of the Senate's being obstructive. At that time I was a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs to which the Bill was referred although, as it happened, the time of the Parliament ran out before that Committee had completed its inquiries into the Bill. I agree that there were a number of matters which were deserving of some amendment if the Bill was to become law. I think that both Bills which we have before us at the present time are somewhat unsatisfactory. They are stop-gap measures. Certainly, if it were not for another proposal which is at present before the Parliament a great deal more would have been done by way of amendment to the law relating to seamen's compensation and to the provisions which are contained in the Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Bill which is now before the Senate cognately with the Seamen's Compensation Bill. 
All that these Bills do, apart from one or two minor procedural amendments, is to make somewhat more adequate the compensation payments which are available to injured and disabled persons, bringing those payments rather more into line with present-day costs and wages than are the amounts prescribed under the present Act. I agree with  Senator DrakeBrockman  that this is a complex question. I think he knows that on another matter related to compensation the Government has taken the position that there should be inquiries by the same Senate Committee as that to which he has referred. To conclude, all I do is repeat that I would not wish the Senate or anybody else to think that anything very significant is accomplished by the passage of these Bills. They are stop-gap measures. A number of people in trade unions and elsewhere are far from satisfied with the provisions which are contained in these Bills. At least up to a point they bring up to date the provisions under the existing law so far as weekly and lump sum payments are concerned. I thank  Senator Drake-Brockman  for his assistance. I assure him that in my second reading speech I was not intending in any way to reflect on the Opposition with regard to the previous history of this matter. I commend the Bills to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The National Compensation Bill 1974 will provide the framework for the compensation aspects of the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Compensation and Rehabilitation in Australia. I tabled Volume 1 of that report, dealing with compensation, on 10 July 1974 and Volume 2, dealing with rehabilitation and safety, on 26 September. Volume 3, the Compendium, was tabled on 17 October. I repeat what I have said outside the Senate on previous ocasions, namely that, so far as the total report is concerned, the Government places primary emphasis on the matters contained in Volume 2, namely, safety and rehabilitation, rather than compensation, which is dealt with in Volume 1 , and is the subject of the present Bill. 
I should like to pay tribute to the work of the  Chairman  of the Committee of Inquiry, the Right Honourable  Sir Owen  Woodhouse, D.S.C., of the New Zealand Court of Appeal, and to his learned colleague, the Honourable  Mr Justice  C. L. D. Meares, of the Supreme Court of New South Wales, who is also  Chairman  of the New South Wales Law Reform Commission. These gentlemen have performed a most admirable task and presented to the Government a scholarly and challenging report for which we are in their debt. The Government is grateful for the co-operation and assistance of the Governments of New Zealand and the State of New South Wales in making available their services. 
The Bill now before the Senate introduces a social measure of great significance. This Bill is based upon the draft Bill contained in Volume 1 of the Committee's report, with some amendments resulting from the Government's examination of the report, and from consideration of representations already received. Further amendments were introduced by the Government in the House of Representatives to give effect to the principles outlined in the report and to meet further representations made. I emphasise that, while the Government has adopted the measure in principle, it is not irrevocably committed to every detail of it. As I have already pointed out, we have made amendments to the Bill as the result of representations received and we remain open to consider further amendments in the light of representations, both now and in the period between the enactment of the Bill and the coming into operation of the scheme. The Government sees this measure as being of such importance to the Australian community that we have welcomed any views which any person or organisation, including representatives of the insurance industry, women's organisations, trade unions, and of course the Opposition parties in this Parliament, wish to place before us. 
The Bill provides for earnings-related compensation to all people incapacitated as a result of injury or sickness and to the dependants of deceased persons. The scheme envisaged in the report of the Committee embraces injury, congenital disability and sickness. The Government, at this stage, cannot see its way clear, much as it would like to see this done, to the immediate implementation of the whole scheme and has decided that it should be introduced in 4 stages. The draft Bill has been amended accordingly. 
Stage one, which will extend to personal injury and congenital disability occurring on or after 1 July 1976, will come into operation on that date. The Government sees the period between now and 1 July 1976 as being necessary to phase out existing systems, allow the insurance industry to make adjustments, and enable the Government to prepare the administrative machinery to implement the scheme. Stage two, which will extend to personal injury and congenital disability occurring before 1 July 1976, will come into operation on a date to be proclaimed. Stage three, which will come into operation on a date to be proclaimed, not earlier than 1 July 1979, will extend to sickness occurring on or after that proclaimed date. Stage four, which will extend to sickness occurring before the date proclaimed for stage three, will come into operation on a date to be proclaimed. 
As honourable senators will see, this is a longterm program. An initial waiting period of 18 months between the enactment of the legislation and the coming into operation of the scheme was recommended by the Committee. The operation of the first stage of the scheme will be closely watched, and decisions to implement the ensuing stages will be taken in the light of experience and the economic and other circumstances existing from time to time. It would not be possible for me, in the short time available, to explain all the implications of the scheme. I have arranged for the printing of an explanatory memorandum on the scheme and on the details of the Bill. This will be distributed to all honourable senators. 
Honourable senators will note that entitlement to benefits under the scheme replaces the present remedies for personal injuries at common law and under workers' compensation legislation. These remedies have an important place in the history of social justice, but they are both inadequate and unnecessarily expensive. These issues are well explained in Volume 1 of the report of the Committee. With the discontinuance of common law and workers' compensation remedies, the need for compulsory insurance in the motor vehicle third party and workers' compensation fields disappears. As honourable senators are aware, experience in these areas over the last 10 years or more has shown the need for the type of drastic re-thinking which has led to the development of this scheme. This is a measure which is designed to replace what we have now. This is a new scheme. It brings a fresh approach to compensation. It more efficiently, cheaply, and justly provides that compensation for the injured, sick and disabled, towards which those jurists who built our present system of common law remedies, were striving. It is interesting and relevant to note that both  Sir Owen  Woodhouse and  Mr Justice  Meares, are outstanding representatives of a judiciary founded upon our English common law. 
The Committee of Inquiry recommended in its report that the scheme be financed from a levy of 10c a gallon on petrol and diesel oil used on the road, replacing the third party insurance premiums; the imposition of a levy of 2 per cent on the wages bill of employers and on the net earnings of self-employed persons, replacing the present compulsory workers' compensation premiums; and the raising of any residual amounts from general revenue. The Government has considered this matter, but it has not committed itself to this or any other method of financing. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  is investigating the options available to the Government and will bring forward proposals for later consideration. 
The abolition of the present remedies will, of course, affect the insurance industry. With the cessation of compulsory motor vehicle third party and workers' compensation insurance, there may be a diminution of income to the insurance industry. However, the present experience of many insurance offices shows that, in recent years, both of these fields have become increasingly unprofitable to such an extent that many companies have either withdrawn or are anxious to withdraw from these socially essential forms of insurance. For example, in an address at a symposium conducted in Sydney on 7 June 1973 during the Australian Insurance Institute Annual Conference,  Mr D.  G. Pettigrew, the Managing Director of Sun Alliance Insurance Ltd, said: 
Workers' compensation insurance poses special problems for the insurance industry due to the natural desire of governments to increase compensation rates in response to increasing community wage levels. 
While this is essentially desirable the insurance company must pay this compensation out of the premium fixed, in many cases, years previously. 

 Mr Pettigrew then went on to say: 
Obviously, the estimation of claims costs poses difficulty and raises the question whether private enterprise is the proper medium to provide protection when liabilities are emphasised by statute and potential liabilities are unpredictable. 
The Committee of Inquiry was unable to assess the full effects which its recommendations would have upon the insurance industry, and hence was unable to make specific recommendations as to how they should be met. This matter has been placed in the hands of the Treasurer who is setting up a consultative committee comprised of representatives of the insurance industry and Government officials to look into the problems of the industry resulting from the Government's plans to introduce this national compensation scheme. 
I have been in constant touch with the representatives of various organisations representing insurance companies operating in Australia, and with the Australian Insurance Staffs Federation, and have invited these organisations to make suggestions as to amendments to the Bill, including necessary transitional provisions, and have undertaken to give my careful consideration to any advice I may receive from these quarters. I recently visited New Zealand where I discussed these matters with representatives of the insurance industry in that country, and learned something of the problems which may be expected. It is to be noted in this regard that the New Zealand compensation proposals, contained in the report which was made to the New Zealand Government by  Sir Owen  Woodhouse in 1967, were amended later in many respects. 
The Bill provides for the payment of benefits at the rate of 85 per cent of earnings, calculated on earnings of up to $500 a week, for any person unable to work because of injury or sickness. The upper earnings limit of $500 a week was reached by the Committee of Inquiry after consideration of income levels payable in Australia. Any person in receipt of an income in excess of that amount would have his benefit calculated on the basis of earnings of $500 a week. We support the principle stated by the Committee of Inquiry at page 105 of Volume 1 of its report that: 
Real compensation demands the provision of incomerelated benefits for lost income through the whole period of incapacity and the opportunity for every incapacitated person to maintain the living standards he or she had earlier achieved by energy and hard work. 
The Bill makes provision in respect of permanent incapacity. A person who suffers permanent total incapacity would be entitled to a continuation of his benefit at the rate of 85 per cent of average earnings. A person who suffers a permanent partial incapacity would be paid a benefit calculated on the percentage of his incapacity and based on national average weekly earnings. Special provision has been made by a Government amendment in the House of Representatives to ensure that compensation would be payable for loss of earning capacity if the benefit payable in any case for permanent partial incapacity were to be insufficient. The Bill also provides for payment of benefits to widows and other dependants of persons who die from injury or sickness. Once again, the benefit is related to the average weekly earnings of the deceased spouse. Benefits will be payable also to non-earners. These include housewives and others who are not members of the workforce. In these cases, the benefits payable will be based on a notional earnings figure of $50 a week. 
One of the most significant advances in the law of accident and sickness compensation proposed in this Bill is the recognition of the right to compensation of non-earners, such as housewives and children. In particular, it should be noted that although no-one could deny the important contribution made to the economy by housewives and mothers, they have until now been excluded from any scheme of workers' compensation. The report and this Bill propose that this gross injustice should be remedied, and the community should accept the same responsibility for these citizens as it does for employees receiving a wage or salary. In the same way, this Bill proposes that compensation should be paid in the appropriate circumstances to another important group, also excluded from the present workers' compensation laws, namely selfemployed persons, of whom the farming community, for example, forms a substantial part. 
Provision is made for the automatic adjustment of benefits each quarter based on movements in the consumer price index plus an element to reflect productivity growth. This will enable beneficiaries to retain relativity of income with movements in the cost of living. The minimum income figure of $50 a week and the maximum income figure of $500 a week will also be brought up to date. These will be adjusted annually on the basis of movement in seasonally adjusted average weekly earnings. As I have indicated, the Government has made some admendments to the original draft Bill. One major change which we have made is to provide that payment in respect of injuries arising from work, that is the type of industrial injury presently covered by workers' compensation, will be made for the first week of incapacity. Payments in respect of other injuries will commence, as recommended by the Committee, from the second week of incapacity in the case of injuries to earners and from the fourth week of incapacity in the case of injury to non-earners and in the case of sickness. The Government believes that it would be retrogressive to deprive workers of the rights already existing under compensation law to receive payment for the first week in respect of injuries arising at work. Equally, it would be inequitable to expect employers to be responsible for payment in the first week in these cases which at present are covered under their workers ' compensation insurance. 
Another important amendment has been made to ensure that wage earners on the lower incomes are specially protected from loss of income during incapacity. Other amendments have been made to guarantee rights of appeal against all determinations under the legislation; to give right of access to documents upon which determinations are based; to provide for payment of costs of an appellant, where a tribunal awards costs; and to protect applicants against possible administrative delay. A common criticism which has been made of the national compensation scheme, is that its administration will be left to public servants. It is, of course, necessary that public servants will be involved in handling the day to day operations of any scheme such as this. We recognise that it is undesirable that public servants be allowed any large measure of discretion without appropriate methods for holding them accountable for the decisions that they make. To this end, provisions are already contained in the Bill for appeal procedures which will protect the applicant for compensation and at the same time make it difficult for public servants to use their discretionary powers arbitrarily. Many of the amendments already made and to which I have referred are designed to protect the rights of the citizen in these circumstances. 
The permanent head of my Department will be studying a number of methods which might be used to train the sections of the Department of Repatriation and Compensation which will administer this scheme, to ensure that we have available in the Department officers especially sensitive to the needs of the people whom the scheme will serve. He will also be looking into the possibility of building into the administration of the scheme a means whereby the operation of the scheme will be continually watched so that its efficiency can be constantly under scrutiny and the returns for every dollar spent can also be regularly gauged. I am advised that some excellent methods have been developed which deal with such crucial matters as staff and man-power development, operational effectiveness, internal administration and mechanisms to ensure budgetary realism with economy. These are matters to which the Government gives the highest priority and on which it places the greatest importance. 
As honourable senators are aware, the Committee of Inquiry did an amount of research and calculation to arrive at cost estimates for the scheme recommended in the report. Work is still proceeding on the analysis of these cost figures. The major costs will, of course, occur when stage 3, related to sickness is implemented. Revised estimates have been prepared for stage I, in respect of anticipated expenditure in its first year of operation from 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1977. It is estimated that the net cost for that first year of operation, taking account of the amendments made in the House of Representatives, will be $306m. Work on the cost estimates will continue and they will be revised and brought up to date on the basis of the Government's staging of the scheme. The estimated costs in respect of each of the ensuing stages will be one of the factors which the Government will take into consideration before proclamation of those stages. 
I should like to repeat that this Bill introduces a most important social measure. We are dealing in this Bill only with the compensation aspects arising from the report, which covers also rehabilitation and safety. These are 3 arms of a total concept, namely that we must provide a safe environment at work and elsewhere, rehabilitate those unfortunate enough to suffer incapacity and ensure compensation during rehabilitation and for residual handicap. 
We must seek first to prevent, so far as humanly possible, the occurrence of injury and sickness. Already in Australia in the post-war period great advances have been made in accident prevention, particularly in industry and on the roads; but much more remains to be done. Where, in spite of all endeavours, incapacity occurs, the payment of compensation in itself is not the answer. The prime and important issue is rehabilitation to the maximum degree that society can provide. The role of compensation during the early stages of disability is to remove the financial worries which could interfere with effective rehabilitation. If all rehabilitation efforts fail to restore a person's total capacity, then compensation is paid to recompense the individual for that permanent residual incapacity. 
Until now, insufficient stress has been placed upon the rehabilitation role. This is particularly so in the common law area and has been the subject of comment by many learned judges, medical practitioners and others who see delays in litigation and settlement as being against the best interests of the injured person and, in fact, often worsening his condition by encouraging the mental approach, commonly referred to as litigation neurosis', which may lead the person to reject improvement until settlement of the claim. Through this comprehensive program, of which compensation is but one part, the Government intends to ensure that the people of Australia will enjoy the benefits of this scheme and so avoid the problems, delays and weaknesses inherent in the existing systems. 
The accident compensation scheme now operating in New Zealand, which has many similarities to the scheme proposed in this Bill, was introduced by a National Party government, and supported in principle by the New Zealand Labour Party. I am sure that all honourable senators will consider and debate this Bill in a positive and constructive manner and I assure the Senate that the Government will welcome suggestions which will allow the resultant legislation to provide an even better framework for the proposed scheme. I undertook to make available to representatives of the Opposition Parties all of the facilities and information available to me, including discussions with the officers of my Department, and the perusal of any relevant documents and statistics. I am pleased to be able to say that this offer was accepted by members of the Opposition. On several occasions,  Sir Owen  Woodhouse has met groups of Opposition members, and others have had discussions with officers of the Department of Repatriation and Compensation, and members of my personal staff. I arranged for the Opposition spokesman on repatriation and compensation,  Senator Drake-Brockman,  to visit New Zealand, and assisted him to meet those people in that country who could speak with some authority on the New Zealand scheme. 
It is naturally the Government's hope that the passage of this Bill will not be delayed for so long that the proposed date for the introduction of stage 1 would have to be postponed. At the same time, it has been the Government's wish that the exchange of ideas should in no way be stifled or that representatives of those persons in the Australian community who have an interest in this proposal should be precluded from offering suggestions to the Government. To this end, the Government has welcomed the opportunity to consider such suggestions and to support those amendments which will assist in the establishment of the national compensation scheme. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator DrakeBrockman)  adjourned. 
I think it would be quite improper for me not to offer some comment on what  Senator Drake-Brockman  has said. In fact, I was aware that he was going to make a non-second reading speech of a somewhat second reading nature and we had agreed that this procedure would be followed. When I constantly hear my reasonableness being referred to I feel somehow that over recent years I must be slipping because 1 now find myself in the position of Warren Hastings of being amazed at my own moderation. There are some matters on which  Senator DrakeBrockman  has touched and on which I could perhaps briefly comment. First of all, it was a proposal from the Government- an honourable senator on the Government side- which we agreed to quite some time ago before the debate took place in the other place, that this National Compensation Bill should be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs for further investigation. 
I certainly do not want to achieve some footnote in history as being the Minister who was responsible for some disastrous piece of legislation. Obviously any legislation of this sort needs to have very careful consideration. I did not write the report. I do not accept responsibility for all of the things which are in the report. All I say is that this was a report which we believed was prepared by the best available jurists who have worked in this field. The Committee had the best available advice and it produced the best possible report and the Bill is based on that. In fact, the Bill is part of the report which was prepared by a very distinguished parliamentary draftsman who worked with members of the committee of inquiry and particularly Professor Palmer, probably one of the leading authorities in the common law world on the law of compensation. I am well aware of the matters which  Senator DrakeBrockman  has raised about the necessity not to be unduly hasty with this BDI. That is one of the reasons, for example, provision is made that that part of it applying to sickness will not come into effect for some 5 years from now, at the earliest. That part relating to accident will not come into effect for almost 2 years from this date. It is not a precise parallel to compare this Bill with the Trade Practices Bill or with the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1973 which were due to come into force immediately. 
It is provided in the nature of this Bill itself that it should not come into force immediately; that the application should be delayed. I have made clear, and I have meant it, that we believe that this Bill, while it is still a Bill and indeed once it becomes an Act is something which, of necessity, will have to be subject to constant scrutiny and, I believe, constant amendment. I do not think it would be possible for anybody to devise a perfect piece of legislation which would remain unamended for all time. We have taken that fact into account in the way in which we have approached this Bill. 
I have had conferences with representatives of the insurance industry. One of the very great difficulties, as  Senator Drake-Brockman  said, in making predictions about future arrangements with the insurance industry is to know precisely to whom one should be talking. As far as I can tell, there seems to be 3 main streams in the general insurance industry with regard to these proposals. One of them is a group which appears to be quite categorically opposed to them. Another is a group which does not like them particularly but which thinks that in due course something like them is inevitable, that no-fault insurance of one form or another has come into force in many parts of the Western world, that, in any event, in the long run the present system is becoming a losing proposition and that somehow private insurance companies ought to be phased out of it. There is another group. One member of this group was named in my second reading speech. I refer to  Mr Pettigrew,  the general manager of the oldest and one of the biggest insurance companies in the world, who said that he is completely in favour of these proposals and that compulsory insurance work of a third party or workers' compensation nature is not a suitable field in which private enterprise insurance should engage. I think this indicates some of the difficulties that one has in actually finding out what one should do with insurance companies. 
One company with which I have had some dealings- I do not want to put words in anybody's mouth- seemed to believe that a scheme similar, if not identical, to the one that we have before us tonight will be adopted. It has a problem with regard to clinics which it has had for some years as part of its activities in the workers' compensation field. Arrangements have been made for me to inspect those clinics. I think the company is anticipating that in due course it will be going out of the workers' compensation field. It wants to make some arrangements about transitional provisions. I am prepared to do this. If I were asked to state the transitional arrangements I could not answer because the insurance companies have been unable to tell me what they want to have done. All I can say is- it is my view, and I believe it is the view of the Government- if people, because of legal obligations, have been acting as insurers in a field in which insurance is compulsory, obviously if the law is changed they should be protected. There should be transitional provisions to cover any difficult situation in which they find themselves. The reason that they are in this field of insurance is largely because Government legislation required somebody to be in that field. 
I deal now with the aspect of common law and lawyers. I am afraid that one finds a disagreement among lawyers on this subject. The closer lawyers are to practice in the field of third party insurance, running down cases, and workers' compensation, the more enthusiastic they would appear to be about the retention of the existing system. The further they are from it, whether they are working as academic lawyers, sitting as judges although their practice before they became judges was in this field, or practising in other fields, the less enthusiastic they seem to be about the retention of the existing common law remedies. All these matters can be considered by the Committee. I appreciate  Senator DrakeBrockman  's contribution tonight. All the issues which he has raised are very real problems. It would be quite useless and futile to deny that they are real problems. 
I suppose that the only thing which can be said in addition to what I have said already is to stress again the very real problems which are involved in the existing system. In the existing system, if one is not injured in the course of one's employment but is injured as a result of negligence, one is able to obtain quite substantial damages. If one is injured outside the course of one's employment but not as a result of somebody else's negligence, generally speaking one obtains nothing. There is absolutely no moral virtue possessed by the person who is injured as a result of the negligence of a motor vehicle driver as compared with the person who is injured as a result of being struck by a car whose driver died of a stroke, was stung by a bee, or whatever happened, and who was not behaving negligently. It seems rather strange that we should have a social welfare system, which is virtually what compulsory third party insurance is, which provides payments enforceable by law to one group but not to another and there is no more moral worth about one than about the other. 
Under the existing systems of workers' compensation and common law damages vast sums are spent on litigation and on all the machinery which is required to maintain these systems. For example, in Victoria, for each $1 that is paid in workers' compensation something like 50c is spent on administration and litigation. Our view is that this scheme would introduce considerable savings, however big the staff may be and whatever the number of typewriters may be, compared with the present colossal expenditure on litigation in relation to workers' compensation. Like  Senator Drake-Brockman,  I am not taking part in a second reading debate. I am discussing the reference of the matter to the Committee. I trust that the motion moved by  Senator Everett  will be carried. 
There was a story that used to circulate around the Senate a few years ago- I do not know what truth there was in it and could not vouch for it- that after the Senate adjourned at night  Senator Greenwood  would hide under the table and when the attendants had gone would come out, turn on the lights and stay here all night speaking. Whether he did this or not I do not know but certainly it would be preferable to what he has done tonight in keeping the rest of us here having to listen to him. I suppose that one has to take up some time dealing with what he has been telling us tonight.  Senator Webster  is trying to interject. He has had an opportunity to speak, but if he would like me to sit down so that he can speak again I will do so; otherwise I would like to get this over so that we can all get home where we should have been a long time ago. 
I will say plenty. The proposition has been put forward that the Government set out deliberately to destroy the Constitutional Convention by proposing an additional Government member in place of the one of the 3 senators to whom the Opposition was entitled and that that Government member apparently was  Senator Hall.  I understand that this is what happened. The Liberal Party heroically opposed it and some malicious journalist, who apparently had not carried out the instructions of his employer, wrote an article which was critical of  Senator Greenwood  and therefore he would have to denounce this journalist to the Senate. 
-Thank you. This is the nonsense that has kept us here for the best part of three-quarters of an hour.  Senator Greenwood  has talked about who constitutes the Opposition. I would like to have a look back at the days when the Liberal and Country Parties were the government and at how they set about appointing the membership of committees. Let us take as one example the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange, How was that constituted by the previous Government? It was constituted by having 3 members of the Liberal Party, 1 member of the Australian Country Party- that is, 4 Government members- 3 members of the Australian Labor Party and 1 member of the Democratic Labor Party. It is said that  Senator Steele  Hall on occasions votes with the Labor Party, which he does. I will come back to  Senator Steele  Hall in a moment because I think that something ought to be said about him for the edification of  Senator Greenwood.  If it can be said that because  Senator Steele  Hall sometimes votes with the Labor Party, which he does, that makes him in some way not a member of the Opposition, what can be said about the DLPthe Party that kept the Liberal and Country Parties in office for 17 years? Is it going to be suggested seriously that in some way  Senator Steele  Hall is not part of the Opposition whereas the DLP was part of the Opposition? 
Let us have a look at another committee- the so-called Senate Select Committee on the Civil Rights of Migrant Australians- and see how  Senator Greenwood  and his friends constituted it. In fact that Committee was constituted while the Australian Labor Party was in Government It was set up as a kangaroo court to pre-judge the issue. How was it set up? It comprised 1 member of the Liberal Party, 1 member of the Australian Country Party, 1 jocularly described independent from Tasmania-  Senator Townley-  1 member of the DLP and 3 members of the Australian Labor Party. That was 4 members of the Opposition to 3 members of the Government. That was the record of  Senator Greenwood  in dealing with these matters. 
If this matter was so serious, if it was such an affront to the Liberal and Country Parties, can the Opposition inform us why it was that not one voice was raised in the House of Representatives when that proposition was put there? Why was it that  Mr Snedden, Mr Lynch, Mr Anthony  and  Mr Sinclair  did not discover this sinister plot that  Senator Greenwood  has been able to flush out tonight in all this fury at the impudence of a newspaper reporter in criticising him? It was because members of the House of Representatives who belong to the Opposition Parties and who obviously are becoming just as fed up with  Senator Greenwood  as are members of the Senate who have to listen to him every day, did not think that such a preposterous point could be sustained because the practice has been to have 3 members from the Government and 3 members from the Opposition. Three members were allocated to the Opposition.  Senator Steele  Hall is either in the Government or he is in the Opposition, and he is not in the Government. He is a member of, the, Opposition, and much more a member of the Opposition that the Democratic Labor, Party ever was while, the Liberal, and Country Parties were in office. , 
I would like to say something' about  Senator Steele  -Hall as the matter has been raised.'The trouble with  Senator Greenwood  is that he is really a very primitive person. What he has hot been able to understand is that unless somebody behaves like one of Pavlov's dogs-.- 
Yes, I once was a member of the Liberal Party, and I grew. up. I was a very silly young man. I would rather be a silly. young man than a silly. old man, of whom there are many in this chamber. A number, of consistent, philosophical, theoretical positions can be put with a certain measure of clarity. 
-! did hot say they could be put by  Senator Jessop,  but one could put them. .There are certain . theoretical, philosophical positions which can be put with logic and clarity and with some system which take a position different from that of the Australian Labor Party. As it happens, and as it is late at night and no one will report this debate to the Press and only a handful of people who read Hansard will ever discover that we were sitting in the middle of the night, I think it should be said that  Senator Hall  really is the most dangerous opponent that the Australian Labor Party has. 
I am interested to hear  Senator Jessop  say hear, hear, because  Senator Hall  puts forward a systematic, consistent, theoretical position. I think he would be more dangerous than he is if there were people with more political understanding in- the Opposition parties. I think that most of them though are Pavlov's dogs like  Senator Greenwood.  1 do not think they can understand a consistent theme of private enterprise laissez-faire: libitarianism, if I may use that expression, of the kind  Senator Hall  puts to us. This is probably what they find so bewildering about him. This is why the indigation of somebody like  Senator Greenwood  raises itself whenever  Senator Hall's  name, is mentioned. We have had our time wasted tonight by the antics of  Senator GreenWoOd.'I  only' hope that in the future he will follow his bid practice, hide under' the table and speak after everybody else has gone and not inflict on the rest of lis the agony of listening to the nonsense he has- made us listen to this evening. ; . . ; 

The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The establishment of the Social Welfare Division of the Department of Social Security is: . , 
-Grandparents who are taking care of children are entitled to receive child endowment under the same terms and conditions as are the parents of children. In addition to receiving child endowment, they are entitled to some other benefits as well. They can receive an additional pension of $5 a week, which is about to be increased to $5.50 a week, for each child. For means test purposes a deduction of up to $6 a week is available for each child within their care. In the case of children who are double orphans- that is, children who have lost both of their parents- there is a double orphan's pension of $ 10 a week which is shortly to be increased to $11 a week. Under the legislation which was dealt with by the Senate on Tuesday of this week, a handicapped child's allowance of $10 a week is to be paid in respect of eligible children for whom child endowment is received. The receipt of child endowment or any other form of benefit of this nature does not in any way preclude the payment of any social service pensions which the grandparents would be otherwise receiving. 
I would have thought that one of the problems of the Opposition was not that the Labor Government had not honoured its promises but that it had honoured its promises. As to the specific matter which has been raised by  Senator Sheil,  I am afraid that I do not have the information available with me here, but I shall refer the question to the Minister for Social Security and see that  Senator Sheil  has an answer as early as possible. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) My Department in association with the Social Welfare Commission is currently examining the need for Government assistance to national social welfare organisations. 
It is proposed that this review will be completed prior to the 1975-76 Budget. The question of assistance to particular organisations will be decided at that time and the details will, of course, be published in the usual way. 
As already indicated there has been no decision to abandon this review. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The Australian Government was given, by referendum in 1946, the power to make laws with respect to the provisions of certain benefits, allowances and services including sickness benefits, hospital benefits and medical services. The Australian Government, by virtue of these powers, can assume certain responsibilities for the health care of the population generally, which of course, includes pensioners, but it does not have an exclusive or even dominant responsibility in that field. The State Governments have accepted that it is their role to control public hospitals and provide treatment from them and clearly asa result, the States have an obligation to the public generally including pensioners in that respect. 
The National Health Act provides for the Australian Government to pay public hospitals $5 for each day that a pensioner eligible for the Pensioner Medical Service is provided with free treatment in a public ward. However, that is not the total contribution by the Australian Government towards the bed costs for pensioners. Previous LiberalCountry Party governments adopted the view that the general revenue grants made by the Australian Government to the States, to cover their broad range of responsibilities, included an element relating to the additional cost of pensioner hospitalisation above the $5 per day directly allocated for that purpose. The present Government agrees that this is a valid position. 
It will be apparent from my answer to the second part of the honourable senator's question that a comparison of past and present relationships between the pensioner hospital benefit and average bed day costs is inappropriate when considered in isolation from the finance made available under the general revenue grants. 
At the Australian Health Ministers' Conference on 16-18 August 1974, the State Ministers for Health sought an increase in the pensioner bed day benefit. The State Health Ministers were informed that, if they so wished, I would approach the Prime Minister to have the pensioner hospital benefit of $5 a day increased, subject to a corresponding adjustment of the general finance allocations to the States. This is in accordance with my view that if State governments have difficulties in identifying appropriate amounts of the general financial allocations that assist them to meet the cost of treating pensioners in public hospitals, the Australian Government could consider earmarking an appropriate portion of general allocation in the future. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, notification of his appointment was in the Australian Government Gazette of 22 August 1974. 
) $ 14,733 within the salary range $ 1 4,229-$ 1 4,733. 
$ 15,236 within the salary range $ 1 5,236-$ 1 5,739. 
$15,236. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Earlier this year, when I became aware of the allegations concerning insufficient quarantine procedures in force in Western Australia, I immediately ordered an investigation which was carried out by the First Assistant DirectorGeneral, Quarantine Division, Canberra, the Director of Health, New South Wales Division, and the Assistant Director-General of the Department's Policy Secretariat and Legislation Branch, Canberra. At the conclusion of their inquiry, during which they interviewed every person considered to be in a position to throw light on the allegations, they reported that there was no evidence to suggest that quarantine procedures were unsatisfactory. A copy of the report was tabled recently in the House of Representatives. In light of the findings and report of the committee I do not consider that an 'open inquiry ' is necessary. 
Neither locusts nor tariffs nor 3-inch building nails fall within the ambit of my responsibilities. However, intra-uterine devices do so I shall confine myself to the matters raised by  Senator Baume.  If I understood him correctly- I think I did- the matter raised by him concerns the use of the drug rauwolfia which it appears has a causal relationship to breast cancer. 
It may have a relationship to breast cancer. He referred also to the use of certain intra-uterine contraceptive devices which appear to cause septic abortions and in some cases death. The position apparently is that the National Drug Evaluation Committee has sent a circular to medical practitioners asking for any evidence they may have or any views they may have on the relationship of this drug and these devices to the unfortunate consequences to which he referred. I understood  Senator Baume  to be saying that there already could be sufficient evidence to make it appear that rauwolfia and these devices are unsafe and that something more should be done than just collect evidence at this stage. I can only say that my knowledge of these technical matters is considerably less than that of  Senator Baume  but I think that the matter he has brought up is of some national concern. I believe it has been acknowledged to be a matter of national concern by the National Drug Evaluation Committee because of the action it has taken already in corresponding with medical practitioners. I shall ask the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  to let me have a statement on the important matters raised by  Senator Baume  this afternoon and as soon as I have received it I shall seek leave to make a statement to the Senate so that  Senator Baume  and others who are interested may be informed of what position the Minister for Health takes. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Fumigation processes undertaken by the Department of Health are earned out by trained and experienced officers. 
Where fumigation processes are carried out by commercial operators, the Department of Health has no jurisdiction over their training of experience. However, the operations are supervised by quarantine personnel to ensure that correct quantities and concentrations of fumigant are used and that the prescribed time of gas exposure is observed. 
-At present the Repatriation Commission does not provide for treatment by either chiropractors or osteopaths. The medical treatment which is provided is given by duly qualified medical practitioners. 
-Chiropractors are registered in Western Australia but their services are not covered by the provisions of the Repatriation Act. The view which the Repatriation Commission takes- I know that this has been the subject of some dispute- and the view which the Australian Medical Association and medical authorities generally take is that there is not sufficient valid convincing evidence to justify the claims which are made by the advocates of chiropractic treatment or osteopathic treatment, and for that reason repatriation benefits do not include payment for treatment by these practitioners. If the recipient of repatriation benefits wishes to receive chiropractic or osteopathic treatment it is entirely up to him but the Department itself will not pay the bill for that treatment. At present an inquiry on which the Repatriation Commission is represented is being conducted into this matter. Inquiry is being made in depth into the effectiveness and usefullness of the treatment which is provided by chiropractors. The Repatriation Commission is making a submission to the committee of inquiry. 
So far as other forms of compensation are concerned, as  Senator Baume  pointed out by way of interjection, the State of Western Australia does provide by law for the registration of chiropractors, and chiropractic services are provided for under the Workers Compensation Act in Western Australia. Some fear has been expressed by chiropractors in Western Australia that they will lose their present status in the event of a national compensation Bill being passed. This, however, is not really a matter for the National Compensation Bill itself because the Bill does not provide for medical and hospital treatment; it provides purely for earnings- related and other forms of compensation for those people who have been injured or incapacitated. It is envisaged that the medical and hospital treatment which would include chiropractic treatment, if it is to be included, would be dealt with under the National Health Act. So my Department has no proposals whatever with regard to the present position in Western Australia. However, the chiropractors association in Western Australia is making some submissions to me which I will be studying. 
One additional problem with regard to making provision for payment for chiropractic treatment is that within the ranks of the chiropractors there are 2 separate organisations, each apparently claiming that the qualifications claimed by the other are not valid qualifications. This makes it even more difficult than it would otherwise be to work out precisely what one is supposed to do about the matter. I repeat my answer to the first part of the question. So far as repatriation is concerned, we believe that as the position stands at present we must abide by the weight of scientific evidence and the weight of the opinions held by the Australian Medical Association, the medical schools of the various universities and the other organisations of duly qualified medical practitioners that there is no justification for repatriation benefits to include treatment by either chiropractors or osteopaths. 
I would like to comment briefly on the matters that have been raised by  Senator Baume  and  Senator Jessop.  Dealing first with the last point that was raised by  Senator Baume,  I am conscious and the Department is conscious of the fact that as we increase the benefits that are available to veterans- I take it that the increases in the benefits available to veterans are not being opposed- that we will obviously need more medical officers and practitioners to participate in the various services offered under the Repatriation Act. Certainly we are bearing in mind the problem that has been raised. I think it can be fairly claimed that the Department has had a good relationship with the Australian Medical Association and professional bodies. Although there have been occasions when they have not been entirely happy with the Government, I think that on the whole there have not been any heated criticisms by them of either the administration of the Department or the relationships which we have had with their members insofar as the facilities that are provided are concerned. But I do take heed of what  Senator Baume  has said. 
With regard to the child nursing centre at the Repatriation General Hospital at Concord, New South Wales, the annual cost of maintaining the centre is estimated at some $30,000. It is estimated that we will be receiving $2 per child per week which is about $8,000 by way of fees paid by the parents and guardians of children who use the centre. In addition to this, there is a saving in overtime payments and also a saving generally for the community on the provision of outside services which are being made up by the provision of this facility at the Concord Hospital. With regard to the contretemps which appears to have developed between the Department and the AuditorGeneral, it was certainly not because of any neglect of the Department's officers but rather there was a disagreement apparently between the Department and the Auditor-General as to precisely what was the authority of the Department to enter into these activities. It was not an oversight or a negligent action; it was actually a disagreement between them. In any event, the recruiting of the SO nursing staff who are being employed additionaly because of these new arrangements was done within the framework of existing vacancies so it does so happen that the expenditure has not exceeded any budgetary limitations that had been placed on the Department. The dispute between the officers of the Department and the AuditorGeneral, I suppose, is therefore rather largely an academic dispute rather than one of any great substance although obviously the views of the AuditorGeneral have to be taken into account. 

 Senator Jessop has mentioned the reopening of the nursing home at Birrallee. This had been closed. I think itwas felt that there was a need for the reopening of the home. I think generally it has been accepted with some acclaim by ex-service organisations and by other people that the home has been reopened. There has been no reduction in the care which is being provided to acutely ill patients. I am in a position to give that - 
-There will be no reduction of services. I think we can confidently say there will be no reduction. I do not know what  Senator Greenwood  finds so amusing about this. We can give  Senator Jessop  the assurance that there will be no reduction in the care which is provided to these patients. I inform  Senator Jessop  and  Senator Greenwood  who takes a lively interest in these matters that should they become aware that such has been the case, then I would certainly ask them to draw it to my attention. The administration is aware of the problems of the terrain in this area. I am afraid my knowledge of the topography of that part of  Senator Jessop  's State is not great because I usually see it from an aeroplane, and not as closely as he does while he is engaged in his parochial duties. 
Consideration interrupted. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) It is not the usual practice to do this and 1 do not intend to do so. 
All advanced western countries are experiencing rapid cost escalation in the provision of health services regardless of their system of financing. Canada is no exception, neither is Australia. There is no evidence available that would suggest that health care costs are increasing at a faster rate in countries that have universal health insurance than in countries that have other forms of financing. 
I found no indication that doctors were over-utilising or opposing the Canadian Health Insurance Scheme because of any bulk billing systems. What I did find was that Canadian Medical Associations of Provinces, in common with all political parties and the community generally, wholeheartedly supported the universal health insurance scheme and claimed that better quality health care was being provided than under the previous private health insurance arrangements. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1) to (4) The following quarantine statistics are kept at seaports in respect of vessels arriving from overseas ports: 
number of vessels medically cleared by Quarantine Officers; and 
number of vessels inspected by trained quarantine staff to determine the extent of rat and vermin infestation. 
For the twelve months ended 31 August 1974 the following statistics apply to the undermentioned seaports: 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) There is no such requirement in the National Health Act, but it is usual for premises not to be approved as a hospital under the National Health Act unless the premises have been licensed to operate as a hospital under the relevant State legislation. 
The National Health Act does not provide for conditions of approval to be imposed on private hospitals approved under that Act. 
I am informed that the Queensland Government requires private hospitals to meet fire safety specifications. 
However, where extensive work is necessary, to bring existing premises to an acceptable level of fire safety, the normal practice has been for the State authorities to set a time limit for the work to be carried out. 
I am informed that there are six private hospitals which do not meet fully the requirements of the appropriate fire brigade. The State licences of these premises have been allowed to continue during the period that the requirements outlined in the fire reports are being rectified. 
and (b) The names of the approved private hospitals which currently have adverse fire reports and the principals or proprietors of these hospitals are: 
i) Private gain hospitals 
I am informed by some sort of osmosis that this matter is under consideration but no definite decision has been made. 
-This matter has been brought to my attention several times by  Senator Mulvihill  and it is, I think, a matter of serious concern. In 1973 amendments were made by this Government to the Repatriation Act which provide the cover for repatriation benefits for Australian servicemen serving with United Nations peacekeeping forces, but do not cover civilian Australians serving with those forces. In this context members of the police forces are in fact civilians. The benefits which are available at present to members of the Australian police forces serving in Cyprus or with any other United Nations forces are the same as those which are available to other employees of the Australian Government. Any benefits that would be received either for death in the case of dependants or injury in the case of the individual himself are covered by the Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Act. My Department and I have been considering for some time means whereby full repatriation benefits could be extended to the Australian policemen who are taking part in these ventures because it seems to me that it is a cruel irony that people who are engaged in what can only be described as military or paramilitary operations at the behest of the Australian Government should not be receiving the same benefits as people who are doing identical duties but are members of the Army, Navy or Air Force. The matter has not been concluded as yet. Some problems are involved in extending repatriation benefits to people beyond those who are actually members of the armed forces. I hope to be able to make an early announcement as to the happy conclusion of this endeavour in which we have been engaged now for some months. 
I am glad  Senator Baume  has asked this question. Although there has been some dispute about the matter on this side of the chamber, there has been general agreement that over recent weeks there has been a certain improvement in  Senator Baume  's approach. Many of us feel that this probably comes from his very assiduous reading of 'The Radical', the official organ of the New South Wales Branch of the Australian Labor Party. In fact, as it happens, one of the things which the editor of the paper does is to insert a deliberate clerical error of this type in each issue to detect the keenness of the readers in discovering it. On this occasion, of the many thousands of readers of this fine journal, the first person so far to have detected this error is  Senator Baume.  Doubtless most readers, knowing of the Government's generous attitude towards social welfare in general and the close and confidential relationship between the Australian Labor Party and the medical profession, would expect that this sort of amount might reasonably have been given to the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners. As it happened it was not. The figure was as  Senator Baume  said. If he presents himself to the Sydney Trades Hall during the next week, in view of his keenness in discovering this error he will be made a suitable presentation. 
I do not think that at this stage I can give any more thorough an answer than I gave last night. That is, I am advised that the existing staff is satisfactory to deal with the additional number of patients who will be attending the newly reopened Birrallee Convalescent Home and that in fact there will be a transfer of patients and staff from the Repatriation General Hospital in Adelaide to Birrallee. I understand that the number of staff will be satisfactory. 
While I am on my feet, perhaps I could refer to another matter. During the course of the debate last night a question was asked of me by  Senator Baume  relating to the use of the child care centre at the Repatriation General Hospital at Concord. In my answer I said, amongst other things, that a fee of $2 a week was being charged for the children who are making use of this child care centre. In fact that information was incorrect. The fee is $2 per day and I should like to make that correction and apologise to the Senate for the misinformation which I provided. 
One other matter to which I should refer relates to Division 925-2-02 in the estimates of the Repatriation Department. During the course of the sitting of Estimates Committee E  Senator Baume  asked a question relating to items of expenditure involved under this heading and an undertaking was given by the Secretary of the Repatriation Commission that this information would be made available to members of the Committee. As it happens, the information was not made available to members of the Committee, although my understanding is that this was not through any failure on the part of the Commission. In fact the information was prepared but, for some reason, it was not distributed. I have made available to  Senator Baume  a copy of the information that was required and at this stage I would seek the permission of the honourable senators to incorporate that information in Hansard, which would otherwise have been incorporated as an appendix to the report of the Committee. 
My information about the problems that have been raised by  Senator Jessop  is that it is confirmed that the terrain is not ideal for wheelchairs but nonetheless it is better, although not ideal, than the terrain in most other nursing homes. Apparently flatness is not a characteristic of the landscape in nursing homes. I am informed that the structure of the buildings is reasonably suitable for the purpose and no major structural alterations are contemplated. I did not quite follow the problem that  Senator Jessop  envisaged that the waitresses- or waiters, I suppose, in a society which under a Labor Government is steadily moving towards equality of the sexes- might experience in carrying meals from the kitchen to the dining room, but I am informed again that no problems have been found in relation to this transportation in the past and no problems are expected in the future. 
I appreciate the congratulations of  Senator Jessop  to the Government on the reopening of the Birrallee Convalescent Home. It will be remembered, of course, that our colleague in another place,  Mr Jacobi,  agitated for many years, both as a member of Parliament and previously as a trade union secretary in South Australia, for the reopening of Birrallee and a large part of the credit is due to  Mr Jacobi  for his efforts. With regard to Birralee, the staff and patients of that home previously were transferred to the Daw Park Repatriation General Hospital. They are now being transferred back from the Daw Park Repatriation General Hospital to Birrallee and no additional nursing staff is needed at this stage because the nursing staff at present looking after these patients in the Daw Park Hospital are being transferred back to Birrallee with the patients. It may be necessary in the future to appoint additional staff but it is anticipated that, at most, one or two would be required. An assurance has been given to me by the officers of the Repatriation Commission that certainly there will be no reduction in the quality of the care which is given to the acutely ill patients who will be transferred from Daw Park to Birrallee. 
Proposed expenditure passed. 
Department of Social Security 
Proposed expenditure, $141,637,000. 
I think that the sort of difficulty that  Senator Baume  refers to is a real difficulty. It is one which it is very difficult to avoid completely in any small regional group where one is dependent very largely upon existing voluntary organisations for its composition. I suppose one would tend to expect that people who have not been affiliated with any sort of organisation in the past are unlikely to emerge suddenly as showing a keen interest in the body exercising regional control. In that case, small pressure groups, as the honourable senator described them, are likely to exercise influence. I do not know whether there is anything wrong with this in itself. In a plural society we are divided into pressure groups of different sizes. I suppose that there would be pressure groups both big and small and some perhaps more admirable than others which would be competing within the local authorities administering the Australian Assistance Plan. But as I understand the substance of  Senator Baume  's disquiet, it is that the problem can be that if there is not sufficient advertising and publicity given to the constitution of the regional councils, this will make it much easier for some small pressure group to exercise a quite disproportionate influence. 
The Social Welfare Commission has been aware that this sort of problem could exist. In fact, the discussion paper No. 1 which was prepared by the Interim Committee of the Social Welfare Commission and which refers to the Australian Assistance Plan, makes reference to the constitution of regional councils in paragraph 2.3 of chapter 2. It may be of advantage to the Committee of the Whole if I were to read the appropriate paragraph. It states: 
Each regional council should involve representatives of the Australian, State and local governments, trade unions and employer groups, welfare consumer groups and nongovernment bodies concerned with social welfare, lt is desirable that the regional council should be answerable to the residents of the region. It is probably desirable that boundaries of the region should relate to local government boundaries, either as at present constituted or in some reformed structure. 
I was reading from a discussion paper prepared by the Interim Committee of the Social Welfare Commission which is supposed to perform the function of giving at least some sorts of guidelines to those people who are concerned about the establishment of regional authorities. Although advertising and publicity are not specifically referred to in the paragraph which I have just read, I think it is quite clearly implicit that it is believed to be desirable and that there should be advertising and publicity. Otherwise the sorts of objectives which are enumerated will not be achieved. It is in that paragraph 2:3 that the representation on regional councils was laid down. These guidelines were repeated in the recently issued guidelines which are contained in appendix E, section 5, of the Estimates Committee's report. That specifies the same requirements of representation in the constitution of regional councils. These guidelines will be issued to all the regional councils. I can only say that I suppose any commonsense interpretation of the guidelines is that the public within the regions covered by each of these councils should be made aware of the activities of the council. This is not spelt out in so many words but it seems to me that that clearly follows from what has been said about the type of representation that is being sought because obviously wide representation will not be achieved if it is not sought. The way in which to seek wide representation is to advertise for it. 
The initiating grants will be available only to associations which give an undertaking to involve all the interests relevant to the Australian Assistance Plan. This is something which the Commission will be supervising. I think it follows from these guidelines and from the precepts that there should be advertising. All that really can be said is that the arguments which  Senator Baume  has put forward are quite compelling arguments with which I would agree. Clearly I, in my capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  will do what I can to see that these guidelines are implemented and that none of the regional councils fail through lack of representation or of public knowledge. I certainly would be most obliged if anybody who is aware of a failing of this nature would let me know so that I can convey that information to the Minister for Social Security. 
I certainly shall try to give as much clarification as I can although it will be appreciated that I do not have at my fingertips all the detail sought. It may be necessary to have some of the questions dealt with by way of questions on notice in the ordinary course of the business of the Senate. There are a couple of things I would say first of all in relation to the matters raised by  Senator Young.  I am informed that the regional councils must provide for representation by State and local governments. It is the requirement of the Social Welfare Commission, that the regional councils should have representation upon them from State and local governments. However some States have not yet nominated representatives to all the regional councils. There is certainly no intention to bypass the local government authorities. At the same time I appreciate the sort of the point that  Senator Young  is making about a fourth arm of government conceivably developing out of this in a certain field and I would hope that his fears are ill based. The fact is that there are responsibilities which local government has which are other than those of the welfare schemes of the type envisaged by the Australian Assistance Plan. Clearly it would be an all too herculean task to impose on local authorities the administration of this Plan in addition to the functions which they already have to perform as municipal and shire authorities. 
I cannot give an undertaking that no political groups will benefit from this plan. This question was asked during the Estimates Committee hearing, as  Senator Townley  would remember, and the answer was given that branches of political parties, for example, are eligible to have representation upon the regional councils. I suppose there may well be some dispute as to whether political parties ought to be excluded but one can get into difficulties if one carries that argument through to its logical conclusion. One might also say that religious groups should be excluded and that there may be a variety of people involved in some controversy of some sort who should be excluded too. The fact is that they are not excluded although I understand that they are not encouraged.  Senator Greenwood,  as is his wont, has tried to extract as many base motives and evil actions as he can on the part of this Government in respect of this scheme and has suggested that it is a means of patronage whereby the Labor Party will secure votes. But that is what  Senator Greenwood  would say about a scheme of this kind. 
I could not dream of  Senator Greenwood  speaking on any subject without saying something like that; that is what I would say. One of the things I have noticed, and I do not want to be personal, about the participation of  Senator Greenwood  in any debate is that one can have with his colleagues a reasonable discussion in which there may be reasonable submissions put forward and argued in a reasonable way but always when  Senator Greenwood  participates in the debate one finds the argument reduced to the sort of level on which we are arguing now. Certainly I did not intend this and I do not think that other honourable senators intended it either. But that is what we expect from  Senator Greenwood  and what we expect from  Senator Greenwood  we regularly get from  Senator Greenwood.  We are trying to debate a serious proposition which was supported, and I believe properly supported, by the Opposition. We have already heard from  Senator Greenwood  and he can speak again, as no doubt he will, all night, all day tomorrow, all next week and for as long as we are sitting. 
What we have been attempting to do is try to involve the people in the administration of the Assistance Plan. The practice of social we! fare down the ages had a certain pall or aspect about it whereby the beadle was handing out money to the local peasantry or villagers. We have tried to get away from this. I am not in any way reflecting on the previous Government and I am not suggesting that it was their attitude. The Liberal and Country Parties have accepted the proposition we have put forward- that we ought to try to involve local people and all sorts of organisations and people who have hitherto been unorganised, in the administration of schemes operating in their own area. Yes, there have been trade unions involved. The Government will not deliberately exclude trade unions from participation in the Australian Assistance Plan.  Senator Greenwood  may not like it but there are a lot of trade unionists in Australia. There are a number of trade unions. They play a significant role in Australia. I know that  Senator Greenwood  does not like the thought that they do but they are there and I can assure him that we will not exclude trade unions from the operation of this plan in the same way as we will not exclude Rotary Clubs, employers' organisations or any other group which is representative of citizens in the community. 
-Senator Greenwood can speak again. I listened to him without interruption. I believe he has had a disastrous effect on this debate. I listened to him without interruption and I would like to be heard without interruption. He can continue his slanders after I finish and I will deal with a fresh lot after he has finished. He referred to some episode which apparently occurred in the western region in Victoria. It is admitted that there was something of a mess there. The people were inexperienced. I am told that apparently 2 ballots were required because the returning officer or whoever was conducting the proceedings had not had previous experience in conducting meetings of this nature and there was a mess. Yes, we plead guilty. This was part of the introduction of democracy to people in an area who had not previously been active in public life. They were not lawyers. They were not lecturers in political science. They were ordinary people living in the area. We were endeavouring to involve them and they made some mistakes in the conduct of a ballot. It took some straightening out. That is what we expect to happen because we believe that this is not only a social welfare program; it is an educative program. It is a program designed to bring the mass of the Australian people into the distribution of welfare provided amongst themselves out of their taxation and out of their efforts. Of course they are going to make mistakes. We are not going to hand the program over to a group of registrars of the supreme court to conduct it for them. We believe, along with a rather distinguished American- not one of the Americans whom  Senator Greenwood  would admire but nonetheless a very distinguished American- that the people have the right to make their own mistakes. The people have the right to make their own mistakes in building up this scheme and they have made some. We are not ashamed of the fact that they have made these mistakes. 
I agree with  Senator Greenwood  that it is desirable that matters of this nature should be governed by legislation, that there should be strict rules which Parliament may supervise so that one knows how money is being expended. But at the same time the approach which the Government and the Social Welfare Commission have taken is that it would be quite wrong to lay down ab initio that these are the rules, that this is the Act, that this is precisely the way the scheme is going to operate. This would be defeating the whole purpose behind the Australian Assistance Plan. It would be wrong right from the beginning to lay down a regimen of rules as to how people should behave. What we are trying to do is to see how it works, to make the moneys available to these organisations, to bring in State government and local government, the Rotary clubs, the church organisations, the branches of political parties for that matter, trade unions, employers ' groups or anybody else, see how they work together and see how they are able to manage the administration of this scheme-  Senator Greenwood  smirks; I know he thinks it is all a Communist plot- and from this try to work out some pattern so that ultimately, when the legislation is introduced, when there is a binding Act which Parliament has the authority to administer, we will know why the Act has been introduced and that it has been based on this experience. 

 Senator Greenwood referred to the Western Regional Council in Victoria. There were difficulties involved in the early stages, as I have conceded already to the Committee, but subsequently a constitution was properly established. I understand that this regional council has been incorporated under the Victorian Companies Act and that it has satisfied the requirements of the Registrar of Companies in Victoria. 
I do not know who the subscribers to the memorandum were. If  Senator Greenwood  wishes to know I will find out. Yes, we will find that out for  Senator Greenwood.  I am sure he has some sinister motive which he thinks will be revealed by this. 
I beg your pardon? 
-Yes. The Western Regional Council in the 1973-74 period received the sum of $20,000 and it received a capitation grant of $236,004 for welfare projects. The union centre to which he referred is comprised of a number of bodies, including the Amalgamated Metal Workers' Union. Yes, the AMWU has some money. It has some assets. It does own some buildings. It owns typewriters and various other things and it collects its dues from its members. Is it therefore suggested that the AMWU should be excluded from the Australian Assistance Plan? 
If the Opposition would prefer I will concede now to  Senator Greenwood  and continue my remarks later. I can see he is bubbling over with venom. I would not want to have him in an even more serious physical condition than this mental condition would seem to be. The AMWU does have assets. Churches have assets. All sorts of voluntary organisations have assets. Are we to say that any organisation which, through the efforts of its members, has accumulated assets is ineligible to participate in the Australian Assistance Plan? Is that what is being put forward? Is it suggested that because the AMWU has $4m- according to  Senator Greenwood  but I do not know whether he is right- it therefore should be excluded? What are the assets of the Methodist Church, the Rotary Club, the Lions Club or the Salvation Army? 
-Yes, or the Chamber of Commerce. They are properly included. What are the assets of the Chamber of Commerce? This is the sort of divisive thing  Senator Greenwood  has introduced which makes it difficult to make a scheme like this successful. The purpose of the scheme is- I think the majority of members of the Opposition support itthat this should be a community endeavour. Although there might be confrontations on some other matters in the political sphere, the industrial sphere or for that matter in the religious sphere, although there might be disagreements between Methodists and Catholics, or the Chamber of Commerce and the AMWU, we are endeavouring to bring them all together within these little communities as representative bodies in that group in order to work together. To refer churlishly to the fact that there are some unions there and that some of these people belong to the Labor Party can have only a disruptive effect on the whole idea of the Australian Assistance Plan. The contribution that  Senator Greenwood  has made this afternoon is completely destructive to the idea of community co-operation. What he wants is community animosity, community hatred, and slander of those people who provide funds and those people who are working hard. Certainly other members of the Opposition who have spoken- I reflect in no way on other honourable senators here or in the Committeehave not tried to do that. They have tried genuinely to make the thing work better, but not  Senator Greenwood. 
Some reference was made to the North Altona Migrant Centre in Victoria. This organisation was developed by a group of teachers in the area. The group had existed for some 10 years. The new centre was established by means of a grant under the Australian Assistance Plan. The North Altona Migrant Centre concentrates its efforts on immigrants who are not assisted by other organisations. It is local to Altona. Although it is not yet well known it is very well regarded, I am informed, by the officers of the Department of Social Security, and those who have observed its work believe it is doing a valuable job in an area which previously unfortunately had been neglected. 

 Senator Devitt referred to statement F which is appended to the report of the Committee and relates to advertising. I do not want to weary the Senate by reading any very long extracts from a document which already is public information but I would like to say that if one refers to statement F it states, in response to information sought by  Senator Baume,  that $100,000 is the estimated expenditure for the Australian Assistance Plan publicity and that $35,000 has been set aside for natural resources material and $65,000 for promotion on a regional basis. The national promotion will include the production of a leaflet for national distribution outlining the scope and purpose of the Australian Assistance Plan. The leaflet will be translated into at least 6 languages. Posters, charts, back-up leaflets and audio visual aids will also be produced. A newsletter is also being produced and circulated regularly to regional councils for social development and people involved in the plan. (Extension of time granted.) Efforts are being made to see that these activities are being publicised. 
I return once again to the sort of criticism that  Senator Greenwood  has made. I had heard complaints in Western Australia from members of the Australian Labor Party that certain regional councils had been dominated by Liberals. They wanted me to do something about it. I did nothing about it because my view was that if members of the Liberal Party were activating themselves in this area, this reflected some credit on them, and what our people ought to be doing was to activate themselves and get to work inside the area- not to go around saying that the Liberals ought to be removed from the positions which they had apparently secured because of their diligence in working in this field. I had hoped that in an area like this all honourable senators would have adopted that attitude, but unfortunately I had temporarily and mercifully forgotten about  Senator Greenwood. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales) (5.36)- I would like to say a few words about the concept of the Australian Assistance Plan but not in the atmosphere that has been created both by  Senator Greenwood  and by the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon).  I hope what I have to say will bring the whole atmosphere of the concept and the application of the scheme into perspective. In fairness, the Minister indicated that the Opposition gave support to the concept. We all understand that in the introduction of a scheme of this nature there are bound to be teething troubles. It is true that these people of good will who have dedicated their lives to helping other people have not all had the experience in local councils, Parliaments or in their private occupations of understanding procedures and the normal conduct of affairs. It is the same as forming a club; they have to learn the hard way. All these organisations and groups in the community have the one abiding feeling- of wanting to make a contribution to helping other people. 
I have not studied the whole extent of the activities of the various regional councils. I happen to be the  chairman  of what I think- I know that a lot of other people think so- is a very important charity that operates in the Sydney metropolitan area. This charity has been operating since 1925. It is made up of people of all political affiliations. Its cardinal rule is that it is not concerned with religion, politics or anything at all. It is only a group of people wanting to help meet certain situations. I am convinced that people who join these regions feel the same way. Any organisation that abides by the laws of this land would welcome them for the contribution they can make. My observation has been that these organisations have been having teething troubles. Can anyone tell me an organisation which, at its creation, does not go through teething troubles? Those who have served in these various organisations have had this experience. The organisations will grow out of them. I understand that even political parties sometimes have their teething troubles. One could say: Let he who is without sin cast the first stone. 
I would like to put this Estimates discussion on the Australian Assistance Plan back to its proper level. People of good will are trying to do something for other people. The experience of my organisation has been that these various regional areas have become part of local government. Very often their meetings are held in municipal offices in certain areas. They are searching for people who need help. I understand that only one region in each State is to have a capitation grant. 
The creation of these regions means that a lot of people are getting the message about the need to provide aid more quickly. They do not have to go to a city office or to telephone a city office. They are able to go to some place in the region when they desperately need some aid. I can think of half a dozen charities in the metropolitan area of Sydney that are receiving a greater demand for aid than they have received before, and it is being met. The point I want to come to relates to Commonwealth assistance. In fairness I should say that I have canvassed this matter with the head of the Department of Social Security. 
Where government aid is required there is a time lag because if a person comes in needing aid, whether it be in relation to social security, a pension or a benefit, the case has to be documented. It has to be tested. Frequently the organisation in which I am involved in an honorary capacity is confronted with the problem of somebody who wants aid from the government, but he cannot get it immediately because there must be a testing time. Some examination has to be made as to whether the case is genuine, whether it is appropriate and as to what can be done. So organisations for charity- and I suppose in other States it is just the same- are meeting a gap in the short term. The point I am making is that through these regional organisaions, and indeed through the implementation of access to their capitation grants, it could well be that in certain circumstances the regions should be able to make a contribution to these charitable organisations so that they can meet the short term emergencies that frequently arise. These charities are just the same as the regions themselves, but they have the added responsibility of raising money and they do not have government backing to raise it. They raise money because people give donations to charity and then the organisations dispense it. 
We should try to put this into a different area and put the case for assistance through the regions by the regions using their capitation grants to assist various charitable organisations so that in turn those organisations can seize the nettle and give immediate aid pending the application of governmental aid. The charities cannot continue giving perpetual aid, they can only meet an emergency. Welfare departments, State and Federal, then have to take over the main burden of assistance. For instance, the New South Wales Government makes grants to various charities because it knows that in turn those charities get very close indeed to the cases involved and are able to give short term aid pending a government, State or Federal, taking over the main burden. 
I wish the concept every success. I believe that it will be a contribution to the welfare of the people in difficult times. Certainly there will be problems, teething troubles, at the start, but I am sure that, with co-operation between the regions and the various charitable and voluntary organisations that work in every State, it will be in the best interests of those people in the community who are less fortunate than others in difficult times, particularly women and children. 
I want to say briefly that I appreciate 

 Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson's contribution to this debate, as I usually do on most subjects. Without necessarily agreeing with him, most of us on the Government side do have a high regard for his contribution. The problem that  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson refers to of involving people is the major problem we have with this plan. Already even those people who belong to some organisation, whether it is a church or some sort of club, in a sense are organised in some way and do have relationships with a body operating within their area. The people who have the most need for a plan of this type are probably people who have no affiliations of any sort with any organisation, and this is one of the difficulties with advertising. When one talks about distributing pamphlets, many of these people are not the sort of people who will read a pamphlet or even a newspaper, for that matter. For this reason it would seem to me, and I think certainly it is the Government's view, that it is desirable that as many organisations of all kinds as possible should become involved in the operation of this plan, even though when one looks at the narrow objectives that the organisation has they may appear to bear very little relation to the field of social welfare. It may be a motor cycle club or a pigeon fanciers' club or something like that. 
Certainly so far as I am concerned, and I believe that I am speaking for the Government, the more people who are politically in opposition to the Labor Party who can become involved in this plan the more we will welcome it. I would certainly welcome the participation of members of the Liberal Party and of the Australian Country Party in this plan. If I were to find that within the various regional councils there were a large number of members of the Liberal Party playing active or leading roles, that I would regard this as being a sign of the success of the plan because that would show that the Government had established co-operation in an important field between people of differing persuasions- religious, philosophical and political. I know that with the type of attitude  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson has we have a real prospect of accomplishing that end. 
I want to make a number of things clear. First,  Senator Greenwood  has said that I have suggested or stated that what Opposition senators have said on this matter is in some way to be deplored and that I have subjected them to a tirade of abuse. 
I deny that. I believe that I have answered courteously all those senators who have spoken, apart from  Senator Greenwood.  I believe that  Senator Baume  has asked interesting and important questions with regard to this matter. I thought that I had answered them courteously. I certainly endeavoured to answer them courteously and to the best of my ability. Questions were raised by  Senator Davidson.  I have not yet answered them, but I certainly will not subject him to a tirade of abuse. I believe that the questions which were asked and the matters that were raised by  Senator Jessop  were worthy of respect. I thought I had answered them courteously. I cannot remember any tirade of abuse which I offered to  Senator Jessop.  I congratulated  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson for his contribution to the debate. In fact  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson used the expression 'teething troubles'. I did not use it.  Senator Greenwood  now says that I am trying to excuse the initial weaknesses- I admit there are weaknesses- of the Australian Assistance Plan by referring to teething troubles. I did not say that at all. The former leader of the Liberal Party in the Senate used that expression. I quoted  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson by saying that I agreed with him that there are teething troubles, but the expression came from  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. If  Senator Greenwood  wishes to take something up with anybody he can take it up with  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. 
I find it personally offensive- I do not say that lightly- to be accused of being a party to the giving of patronage and of being a party to some dishonest practice, which is what has been suggested by  Senator Greenwood  tonight. He has virtually accused the Government, he has accused the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  and he has accused me of corruption with regard to this Australian Assistance Plan. I find that a personally obnoxious reference. In the past outside this chamber I have been personally civil to  Senator Greenwood.  As from now I shall cease that practice. I do not doubt that it will be no loss to either of us. I did have some small regard for  Senator Greenwood  in the past, but he has lost completely whatever regard I did have for him. I regard his comments as one of the most contemptible accusations I have heard in this Parliament. It is perfectly untrue to say that I or any other senator on this side of the chamber has engaged in any sort of attacks on those senators in the Opposition who have asked questions or made any criticisms of the operation of this Plan, because we have not done so. We have dealt with the matters that have been raised. But  Senator Greenwood  has not. He has accused us of corruption; he has accused us of dishonesty; he has accused us of using the Australian Assistance Plan for the purposes of patronage. I categorically deny it. I find it personally insulting. I find it an affront to this Parliament and to this Government and I would think also that it would be an affront to those Liberal senators who sat on the Committee which inquired into these proposed expenditures. I would think it would be an affront to  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson in view of what he said tonight. I invite anybody to look at Hansard to see what  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson did say on this subject. 
I do not intend to spend any more time whatsoever on the outrageous allegations that  Senator Greenwood  has made. But I do intend to deal with some other matters that have been raised.  Senator Davidson  has raised the question of the headquarters of the South Australian Youth Council and the difficulties it has experienced, or may experience, in obtaining a grant from the Central Adelaide Regional Council under the Australian Assistance Plan. It appears that the headquarters of the Youth Council may be outside the Central Adelaide region. I am informed that this does not prevent the South Australian Youth Council from receiving assistance. It may receive assistance from the relevant regional council in whichever region it is functioning. If its headquarters are outside the Central Adelaide region it is none the less entitled to receive assistance for the work that it is doing inside the Central Adelaide region or inside any other region in South Australia. If the South Australian Youth Council has experienced difficulties of which  Senator Davidson  is aware I ask him to acquaint me with those difficulties. I undertake to take them up with the Department so that they may be overcome. Certainly under the guidelines for the regional councils it is eligible for these grants and there is no reason for its concern that its headquarters may not be in the area in which it is engaging in its work. 

 Senator Baume has raised the matter of a proper accounting system for the disbursing of moneys which are received by the various regional councils. The regional councils must obtain prior approval from the Department of Social Security and provide evidence that the funds for which they have applied are to be expended for the purposes for which they are provided. 
Yes. Regional councils are required to submit regularly to the Department of Social Security certified audited statements setting out all receipts and expenditure in each period. 
I am not speaking to  Senator Greenwood.  I am referring to the questions which were asked by  Senator Baume.  If  Senator Greenwood  wishes to make another of his typical contributions he is at liberty to do so and I will deal with it in the manner it deserves. I am now answering the serious question which was asked by  Senator Baume  with regard to the accounting and auditing of regional councils. Having been interrupted by  Senator Greenwood  I will try to get back to the explanation I was giving to  Senator Baume.  I understand he has some real interest in the matter. I repeat that regional councils are required to submit regularly to the Department of Social Security certified audited statements setting out all receipts and expenditure in each period. The Department examines these to ensure that all expenditure complies with the purposes for which the grants are made. The audited reports have to be presented to the Department. 
-The regional councils are not as regional councils subject to scrutiny by the Auditor-General. 
If the Opposition wants me to endeavour to answer a question on a rather complicated subject, a question which I thought was being seriously asked by way of making some contribution to the Plan, I am prepared to do so. If  Senator Greenwood  would like to engage in another form of debate I can assure him that I can do it just as well as he can. I have known  Senator Greenwood  for a long time and there are few people in this Parliament who frighten me less than he does. But if we want to have a discussion about the auditing and accounting arrangements- a very complicated matter- that is what I would like to do. If the Opposition does not want to listen to the answers I am prepared to sit down and keep quiet. I am not prepared to try to answer a complicated question with this hee-hawing coming from  Senator Greenwood  opposite me. He is a disgrace to the Senate and I think he is a disgrace to the Party of which he is the  Deputy  Leader. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator WebsterOrder!  I will not have  Senator Wheeldon  using those words. 
-As far as I am concerned I have no further contribution to make on the questions that have been asked. 
-Which one? 
I withdraw the statement. 
I seek leave to make a short statement relating to a matter which was raised on Tuesday 12 November during the debate on this Bill. 
I hope that the speech that  Senator Webster  has made tonight will be widely circulated throughout Australia. 
-And, so  Senator Wriedt  says, accurately reported throughout Australia, because I do not think that any speech that has been made in this Senate over recent months more accurately reflects the depths of slime in which some members of the Opposition are prepared to wallow in order to discredit this Government than the exhibition that we have heard tonight from  Senator Webster. Senator Webster  has come into the Senate and said that he has been informed of certain things, certain episodes, which, if true, would indeed reflect very great discredit upon the individual who performed these acts. If true, they would.  Senator Webster  was challenged by me by way of interjection, and he heard my interjection, during his speech to produce some evidence for the serious allegations which were being made. He declined to produce any evidence whatsoever. He has made the remarks in this Senate - 
If I may see the document I will refer to it. 
As a point of order has been raised I will speak to it. I said that allegations were made by  Senator Webster  and I challenged him to produce evidence of them. 
I will read the statement he tabled and if this is what  Senator Baume  calls evidence I suggest that he seek some advice from some of the legal luminaries he has sitting around him who are grinning and cackling so much and finding this amusing. He said that an episode had occurred when some person had vomited over somebody else. He said that an episode had occurred when a person assaulted a taxi driver, when he tried to tear the number plate off the taxi. I challenged him to produce evidence, and he now says that he produced evidence and the evidence was a statement. 
Yes, I shall read it. 
I am still on the point of order. 
I am still on the point of order. I know  Senator Greenwood  is enjoying it because he has a night when he can engage in a little more slander- and nothing  Senator Greenwood  loves better than a little personal slander. But I shall get back on to the point of order. 
The point of order to which I am speaking is that which  Senator Jessop  raised when he said I should apologise to  Senator Webster  because I had said that he had not produced evidence for his statement that somebody had vomited over somebody else, that somebody had engaged in an altercation with a taxi driver, that somebody had tried to tear off a number plate. 
I am referring to the point of order that was raised by  Senator Jessop. Senator Sheil  should ask  Senator Jessop.  He raised the point of order. 
-If there is no point of order I am perfectly happy to continue in the vein in which I had been speaking before  Senator Jessop  raised the point of order which  Senator Sheil  apparently did not hear. I said that  Senator Webster  had made allegations and had not produced evidence to support those allegations. He has produced a statement from the Acting Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who has said that an incident occurred. A statement that an incident occurred is not evidence that somebody vomited over somebody else or tried to tear the number plate off a car. What is the purpose of raising this alleged episode? The purpose is to discredit the Minister for Overseas Trade by guilt by association, by saying that because a member of his staff allegedly - 
I can produce no evidence to the contrary. I do not know whether a member of the staff of the Minister for Overseas Trade became drunk or did not become drunk. I cannot produce any evidence. What  Senator Webster  is endeavouring to do tonight- he has brought an admiring group from his own Party in another place to hear him- is to say that because a member of the staff of the Minister for Overseas Trade may or may not have done something- apparently his resignation is in hand- the Minister for Overseas Trade should be discredited. I believe that this is reducing parliamentary debates to a level to which they have never descended before. It has been a standing practice in this Senate over a long period that members on one side would not refer to the inebriation or the personal conduct outside this Parliament of another member of this Parliament. Tonight  Senator Webster  tries to discredit the  Deputy  Prime Minister of this country because of something which may or may not have been done, which he alleges to have been done, and for which he produces no evidence. If we wanted to have discussions on disgusting personal behaviour- this is the first time I have heard them raised in this vein- there are many of us here who could say many things about members of the Opposition and members of the staff of the Opposition. We could have said them but we did not. 

 -Mr President, is the conduct of this Parliament to be based on making personal allegations not only about members of this Government or members of the Aus.tralian Labor Party but also about members of the staffs of this Party, and based on innuendo without one skerrick of evidence? I ask for evidence. When this debate continues- I know that  Senator Greenwood  will want to have plenty to say about this matter because this is the sort of field in which he revels- when that great civil libertarian  Senator Missen  gets up to speak in order to support his colleague  Senator Webster,  I would like him to produce to us evidence of these episodes that are alleged to have occurred in Shanghai and Peking. Let statements be produced from people who were present. 
I do not want to read.  Senator Webster  raised this matter. He introduced it. I ask members of the Opposition, if they are going to make charges of this kind about a member of the staff of the  Deputy  Prime Minister, not just to say that they have been informed but to say by whom they have been informed.  Senator Webster  now finds this funny. He has been able to slander somebody and now he has sat down.  Senator Greenwood  finds it a subject of tremendous merriment. If ever there was an argument for the televising of the proceedings of the Parliament, we are seeing it this evening on the part of Opposition senators. I repeat that I would like  Senator Missen,  who has a high regard for civil liberties and who apparently supports  Senator Webster  in what he has said tonight, to stand and give us the evidence about these episodes which are alleged to have occurred. He is nodding his head. Apparently  Senator Webster  does have a statement about the matters that occurred in Peking and Shanghai. In view of the fact that this person whom I do not know has resigned from the staff of  Dr Cairns,  I would be interested to know what connection there is between this matter and the Government. Is it to be suggested that members of the Government or members of the Opposition are responsible for what some member of their staff does while not in the course of his duties, or even within the course of his duties if the person concerned subsequently leaves the staff? 
Now we hear mention of the left wing. We have moved now from debauchery to Marxism. I hear  Senator Jessop  asking what is the difference. That is the point of the whole magnificent contribution we have heard from the Opposition tonight. Its members are unable to tell the difference between what they describe as debauchery and Marxism. They think the two are linked. The Opposition would have us believe that it is composed entirely of teetotallers, men of total abstinence in all fields, men who have never experienced the carnal lusts of the flesh, men who never touch a drink at any reception. One of those we have never seen. We must say it ourselves- never once have we seen them touch alcoholic liquor in their lives. Nor, indeed, have they ever associated with or been in the company of anybody who has. They expect us to believe that this is the position they take. So bereft are they of policy arguments that they have to resort to personal abuse. So bereft are they of personal allegations against the  Deputy  Prime Minister to justify this behaviour they have to descend to attacking not only a member of the staff of the  Deputy  Prime Minister but also a former member of the staff of the  Deputy  Prime Minister. I hope that accurate copies of  Senator Webster's  speech are distributed to every citizen of this country. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 

 Mr President, I seek leave to have my second reading speech incorporated in Hansard. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to incorporate my second reading speech in Hansard. 
I  move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to incorporate my second reading speech in Hansard. 
I feel that I must ask  Senator Missen  to put this question on notice. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 have not read the article. 
The procedures to be used to collect the health insurance levy will be identical with those now used to collect income tax. Employers will simply deduct a single amount representing income tax and health insurance levy as shown on a published schedule, just as they do now for payasyouearn income tax instalments. The schedule will show how much of the deduction is for health insurance levy and employers will be asked to indicate this on pay slips and group certificates. 
See answer to part (2). It is not proposed to pay a commission to employers. Commissions are not paid for payasyouearn collections. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The Ludeke Medical Fees Tribunal in its determinations of 4 October 1973 and 23 December 1973 determined that 'when a procedural service or a diagnostic service is rendered at the time of a consultation, a fee shall not be charged for the procedural or diagnostic service in addition to the fees for the consultation'. On 24 January 1974, 1 announced that the Government had accepted this determination and would act as quickly as possible to introduce the new benefits arising from the Tribunal's determination. The aim was to have the changes operative from I April 1974 or as soon as possible thereafter. 
2 ) The determination was implemented in respect of procedural services and diagnostic services (other than pathology services) as from 22 April 1974, the date on which the amending regulations became effective. The implementation of this determination in respect of pathology services has been deferred pending further examination by the Government. 
Advice of the decision was contained in paragraph 58 of the Medical Benefits Booklet which was distributed to all medical practitioners at the time the new Medical Benefits became effective. Subsequently, following my decision to defer the application of the determination to pathology services rendered at the time of a consultation, a circular letter was dispatched to all medical practitioners in Victoria, Queensland and Tasmania on 7 May and in New South Wales, South Australia and Western Australia on 8 May 1 974 setting out the position. 
No. 
Appointment of ALP Members to Boards, etc.  (Question No. 293) 
The Acting Minister for the Environment and Conservation has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
l ) to ( 5 ) See the Prime Minister 's answer to Question No. 302 (Hansard of3 1 October 1 974, p. 2 1 98 ). 
I have seen reports of the statements made by the 3 scientists from Harvard. In fact, I did see one of them being interviewed on television. Certainly what they have said is very alarming and I shall see that this is referred to the Minister for Health for early investigation by his Department. If the result of the inquiries do confirm what has been said by the 3 visiting specialists from Harvard University, then indeed it may well be a matter for action under the Trade Practices Act and no doubt the matter would be referred by the Minister for Health to the Attorney-General for appropriate action. 
-The Australian Government has sought the views of all State Governments on this matter and replies have been received from all State Governments except the Government of Western Australia. The Tasmanian Government has put forward the point of view, in which the Australian Government concurs, that however desirable it may be to have women trained as school dental therapists, men should not be precluded from undergoing that training and becoming school dental therapists. In fact we are informed that the Tasmanian Government is considering legislation to amend the existing law relating to this matter so that men may be trained as school dental therapists. 
-I appreciate  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson 's question. I am sorry that such confusion has developed, if it has developed. Certainly my understanding of what the Government is trying to do is that its aim is to see that former prisoners of war have full entitlement to medical and hospital attention. If there is any ambiguity in the circular which has been sent out- obviously there must be for this doubt to have arisen- I shall see that it is corrected by the issuing of a further circular to make perfectly clear what is embodied in the Government's decision on this matter. 
In the course of an answer to a question which I gave on 12 November to  Senator Brown  concerning chiropractic treatment for repatriation patients I referred to an inquiry into chiropractice and said: 
At present an inquiry on which the Repatriation Commission is represented is being conducted into this matter. 
I am informed that the advice that I gave to the Senate is incorrect. The Repatriation Commission is not represented on the inquiry, but it is making submissions to the inquiry. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The Minister for Social Security believes that a universal health insurance scheme is the most efficient means of providing health insurance. In the context of the existing arrangements, however, the Minister for Social Security has expressed the view that there are too many health benefit organisations in the sense that they duplicate services unnecessarily and expend contributors' funds on competitive advertising which is undesirable. Until the Universal Health Insurance Scheme, 'Medibank', comes into operation on July 1 1 975 the Minister for Social Security has accepted the need to provide interim repair work to the present defective system of private health insurance by allowing registration of some small organisations which provide health insurance coverage for special groups in the community. These include organisations in particular districts, those conducted by employee groups, unions etc. In fact, because of the defects of the present system of private health insurance, the Minister for Social Security has encouraged the registration of additional organisations e.g., the Aboriginal Medical Service, to ensure that particular groups are adequately provided for pending the introduction of the Government's Universal Program. 
Four health benefits organisations have been registered under the National Health Act since 2 December 1972- three medical benefits funds and one hospital benefits fund. During the same period, six organisations have had their registration cancelled under the National Health Acttwo medical benefits funds and four hospital benefits funds. 
The names of those organisations and the dates of registration are as follows: 
Medical Benefits Funds 
Aboriginal Medical Service- 21 September 1974 (New South Wales) 
Ancient Order of Foresters Friendly Society in Queensland- 5 June 1974 
Western Region Subsidised Health Benefits Fund (Victoria) 13 August 1974 
Hospital Benefits Fund 
Ancient Order of Foresters Friendly Society in Queensland- 5 June 1974 
The reasons for the Minister's approval of these registrations are as follows: 
Ancient Order of Foresters Friendly Society in Queensland 
This organisation has been operating a medical benefits fund and a hospital benefits fund under the provisions of the National Health Act continuously since 1 July 1953 and 4 July 1967 respectively. However, all medical and hospital benefits organisations registered at 1 July 1970, wishing to continue in the National Health Scheme, were required under the provisions of the National Health Act 1970, to seek re-registration. 
This organisation applied for re-registration but was refused by the then responsible Minister. Notwithstanding this refusal, it continued to operate under 'deemed' registration provisions of the National Health Act 1970 (section 61 ) pending the hearing of an appeal lodged by the organisation under section 80 of the Act against the Minister's decision. The appeal was originally expected to be listed for hearing by the Supreme Court of Queensland in March 1971. However, the organisation took no initiating action to have the appeal brought on for hearing. Because of the technical situation that arose from the 'deemed' registration which the organisation held, there was doubt as to whether contributors would be adequately protected in the event of either the appeal being dismissed by the Supreme Court or the organisation withdrawing its appeal. For this reason the Minister for Social Security when reviewing the situation decided to restore the organisation's full registration. This ensured the protection of contributors rights. The appeal that had been lodged by the organisation then lapsed. 
Aboriginal Medical Service, and Western Region Subsidised Health Benefits Fund 
These two organisations are registered under the National Health Act as 'contract' medical benefits organisations (see section 13 (i) for definition of'contract arrangements') and as such are reimbursed for one half the salaries paid by the organisation to the doctors employed. Aboriginal Medical Service provides free medical treatment for aboriginal members of the community, given by doctors employed at the Centre. The Minister for Social Security visited the Centre in March 1973 and formed the opinion that it was an excellent project, commendable for successful local initiatives which deserved fostering. 
The Western Region Subsidised Health Benefits Fund was set up under the auspices of the Trade Union Clinic and Research Centre Limited, Footscray, Victoria, to provide a comprehensive range of free health services to eligible pensioners and their dependants, who would otherwise normally receive free treatment from participating doctors under the Pensioner Medical Service arrangements. 
Initially, representatives of the Trade Union Clinic made application to enter into an agreement with the DirectorGeneral ofSocial Security under the Pensioner Medical Service arrangements. This followed the withdrawal by certain doctors in the Footscray area from the Pension Medical Service, as a result of which the Clinic was treating an increasing number of pensioners without charge. 
As aspects of this proposal could not be resolved satisfactorily, the alternative approach of registering the fund as a contract' organisation in respect of such pensioners was adopted. 
-The only answer that I would give to that question is that of course the Government is aware of the rate of inflation, and of course it is aware of the problems of the pensioners. No government in the history of this country has done more for the rights of pensioners than has this Government, and in fact whatever may be the rate of inflation the rate of pension increases under the Labor Government has been greater than any increases in the consumer price index. We, unlike the previous Government, have acknowledged the problems of pensioners and not only have we maintained their relative position but in fact the relative position of pensioners within this community has improved during the period of Labor government since 2 December 1972. 
-As I think all honourable senators would be aware- 1 hope they would be aware- and certainly all war widows would be aware, there was a steady deterioration in the level of the pensions available for war widows after the election of a Liberal-Country Party government in 1949. An undertaking was given by the Australian Labor 
Party to restore to the 1949 level the position of war widows' pensions in this country. I am pleased to be able to say that not only are the war widows of Australia better off now than they were under the previous Liberal Governmentmuch better off than they were under that government- but they are in fact better off than they were in 1949 under the Chifley Labor Government. Not only has this Government excelled its Tory predecessors but it has excelled even the efforts of a previous Labor Government. Before the Australian Labor Party was elected to office in 1 972 the war widows ' pension was $20 a week and the domestic allowance, which is received by most war widows, was $8.50 a week. In the time since then the consumer price index has risen by about 20 per cent and the total pension and domestic allowance paid to war widows has increased by over 50 per cent. A 20 per cent increase in the consumer price index has been matched by a 50 per cent increase in the pension and domestic allowance payable to Australian war widows. 
At the present time the war widow's pension, including the domestic allowance, is well ahead of the 1949 value if it is compared with movements in the consumer price index and if it is compared with the then basic wage and the present minimum wage. If the 1949 war widow's pension had kept pace with the consumer price index its present value would be $22.96 a week; it is now almost twice that figure under the Whitlam Labor Government. If the 1949 war widow's pension had kept pace with movements in the former basic wage, now the minimum wage, its present value would be $37.07 a week; again, the pension at the present time is well above that level. It is interesting to note- and I believe that the Senate should be reminded of this-that war widows who also qualify for an age or invalid pension can receive up to $62.50 a week tax free. 

 -As Senator Greenwood has raised the question of inflation, I should say that that is precisely the point I was making. I was comparing the increase in the pension with the increase in the consumer price index. Of course,  Senator Greenwood  is one of the people who talk about inflation without really knowing what it means. One of the ways inflation is measured is through the consumer price index, and as  Senator Greenwood  has not grasped that point I will explain it to him. When I was comparing the pension with the consumer price index I was comparing it with inflation. That is what it means, and I hope  Senator Greenwood  has now learned that lesson. If he has not, there are a number of elementary text books on economics for first year high school students which he may be able to understand. 
To come back to the serious question that has been asked by  Senator Primmer,  I believe that these facts should be made known because  Senator Townley  earlier asked a similar question on this matter. That is, war widows who also qualify for an age pension can receive up to $62.50 a week tax free, and that is equivalent to a taxable income of $72. 1 5 a week or $3,752 per annum. A war widow with 2 children can receive up to $104.40 a week, which is equivalent to $128 a week if taxation is taken into account. In addition, war widows receive all of the free medical, hospital and dental treatment and a onethird reduction in their telephone - 
The Acting Minister for the Environment and Conservation has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Australian Government has provided the sum of $100,000 in 1974-75 to institute the first stage of the National Wetlands Survey. It is expected that initial work will commence early in 1975. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
2 ) Yes (except in the case of pathology services). 
The Director-General, Department of Social Security, Canberra. 
This ruling has not been circulated generally to all medical practitioners. However, medical practitioners who sought advice on this point have been informed of the decision. 
-A number of changes have been introduced in the field of repatriation since the Labor Government has been in office, as honourable senators would be aware. They include the extension of hospital and medical services to prisoners of war and to veterans of the Boer War and the 1914-18 War, the requirement that tribunals give reasons for their decisions and a whole lot of other benefits with which honourable senators are familiar. This has been probably the greatest increase in repatriation benefits since the introduction of the system. But they have not resulted from the inquiry being undertaken by  Mr Justice  Toose because the findings of  Mr Justice  Toose are still as yet not available. I have asked  Mr Justice  Toose to let us have his report by the end of March next year. The inquiry by  Mr Justice  Toose was instituted by the previous Government, and the term of the inquiry has been extended by this Government. 
The repatriation system has been in existence now for some 54 years and, as honourable senators would have noticed while we have been dealing with repatriation legislation during this sessional period, the system has become very complicated, with quite a multiplicity of Acts dealing with various aspects of the same repatriation system. I think it could fairly be said that in many respects the administration of the system and the legislation regulating the system are perhaps unnecessarily complicated, and it is on these matters that  Mr Justice  Toose is reporting. 
To date the inquiry has cost about $513,000 and, although this no doubt seems to be a considerable sum of money, the services of a judge of the Supreme Court of New South Wales and of the expert staff which he has assisting him are of necessity expensive. This Government, as I think would have been the case with the previous Government which must have envisaged that costs of this order would be incurred, believes that the costs are properly incurred if the result of the inquiry, as I am sure will prove to be the case, means that the repatriation system can be more systematically organised and simplified. I hope that the report will be in our hands early next year. As soon as  Mr Justice  Toose has delivered his report to the Government I shall see that the Parliament is informed of what  His  Honour has recommended. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question. 
1 ) This matter is currently an issue in a Supreme Court appeal in which I am a party and I do not think it appropriate to comment at this stage. 
and (3) I would remind the honourable senator that the provision in the National Health Act providing for the reporting annually on the operations of registered medical benefits and hospital benefits organisations was introduced by the previous Government. Likewise, the present form of the report follows that developed for the previous Government. I have not sought any change to it. 
I am not opposed in principle to the suggestion that the report show the amount of the reserves recommended by the Nimmo Committee's recommendation in a column segregated from the 'Balance of the Fund' column. Such a disclosure would serve to emphasise the excessive reserves held by many of the registered organisations. However, incorporation of this added information would involve the registered organisations and the Department of Social Security in considerable extra work and because of this I am reluctant to impose it as a requirement, at least for the present. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Yes. 
Yes. Until her part-time employment at the Centre terminated in October 1 974, Australian Government financial assistance under the Community Health Program was applied towards the payment of her salary by the Centre. 
It is understood that this position at the Centre was advertised. I have no information concerning the number of advertisements or the selection procedure used. 
Generally, the personnel selection procedures used by independent organisations such as the Management Committee of this Centre are matters for the organisations themselves. Government policy is to encourage the States to decentralize administration on a rational regional basis, but I understand that the Management Committee sought and received early administrative guidance from State authorities. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
I ) to (5) I draw the honourable senator's attention to the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 302 (Senate Hansard of 3 1 October 1 974, page 2 198). 
-I was concerned to see a headline above an article in this morning's Melbourne 'Sun' which reads: 'Israel doomedMinister'. There then follow remarks attributed to me. The text of the article which appears under this headline is not an inaccurate account of what I said at a meeting of Jewish Labor supporters in Melbourne but I did not say that Israel was doomed. The point I made at the meeting- I believe it is the view of the Australian Labor Party as well as being my view- is that Israel is in extremely grave danger owing to the fact that some past supporters of Israel have been placed in the position of being afraid of having their supplies of oil cut off by the blackmail of certain Arab countries. This has placed Israel in a much more difficult position than it has been in hitherto. I did not say that Israel was doomed. What I said was that there should be united action by all democratic countries to see that the sovereignty and integrity of Israel as a State are preserved. The construction that Israel is doomed certainly does not follow from what I said. I do have fears for the future of Israel but at no stage did I make any such statement. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The Department of Social Security was established on 19 December 1972. From 19 December 1972 to 3 October 1974, the net increase in the Department's operative staff was 1466 which included nearly 500 Health Insurance and benefits staff transferred from Department of Health. In the same period, there were some 3021 new staff appointed to the Department but, in many cases, these appointments were made to offset normal staff wastage. 
The majority of the new appointments were to the Clerical and Clerical Assistant classifications. Other staff were recruited to the following classifications: keyboard operators, social workers, therapists, nursing staff, doctors, psychologists, librarians, programmers, journalists and other miscellaneous Fourth Division classifications (e.g. labourers, etc.). 
The approximate expenditure incurred on salaries as a result ofthe net increase in the Department's staff since 19 December 1972, is as follows: 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Department of Social Security strictly observes all the provisions of the Audit Act. Treasury Regulations and Treasury Directions in making payment to Regional Councils for Social Development established under the Australian Assistance Plan. In addition. Regional Councils are required to comply with the conditions attached to the Australian Government grants made to them and these arc set out in a document titled Australian Assistance Plan- Guidelines for pilOt Program which has been distributed to all Councils. Among other things, the Guidelines state that Councils need to have a constitution and to bc either- 
incorporated under iiic relevant Companies Act or Ordinance: or 
registered under the appropriate Associations Incorporation Act or Ordinance in the Stale or Territory in which they are domiciled and, therefore, be bound also by the provisions of that legislation. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to incorporate my second reading speech in Hansard. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to incorporate my second reading speech in Hansard. 
1 agree completely with  Senator Missen.  I do believe that the Australian Government should have responsibility not only for this matter but for very many other matters. I am pleased to see that  Senator Missen  subscribes to the policy of the Australian Labor Party in supporting the national Government's approach to the provision of health services, and I look forward to receiving continued support from him. As to the particular details and the amounts, I am not aware of the answer but I shall obtain it for the honourable senator. In general principle, 1 am pleased to welcome  Senator Missen  to the ranks of those who advocate a national health scheme. 
1 am not familiar with all the details of this matter. All I would say at this stage is that I should hardly think that a decision of a supreme court or any other court would repudiate an action in principle taken by a Minister in regulating the fees charged by any health fund. It is merely, it would seem to me, making a judgment, possibly on a question of law, but there is not a statement of any principle about the right of the national Government to regulate health funds. As far as the details of the matter are concerned, I will pass the honourable senator's question on to the Minister for Social Security,  Mr Hayden,  and as soon as an answer is obtained from him I shall let the honourable senator have it. 
-This is a matter of some complexity which has caused some concern, and in view of the interest in the question I should like to give an answer with some precision. The loss of a pensioner medical service card means that the previous holder of the card loses his eligibility for some of the so-called fringe benefits. This is quite true. Although some concessions or fringe benefits are available to the more seriously incapacitated veterans who receive a disability pension at the special rate or the total and permanent incapacitate rate, and to war widows, fringe benefits are usually available only to those who have pensioner medical service cards issued to them by the Department of Social Security. This applies to Service pensioners as well as to age and invalid pensioners. Pensioners are eligible for pensioner medical service benefits if their means are within certain limits. There is a definition of the means, which I will not weary the Senate with, as I think that most honourable senators who are interested in the matter are aware of those levels. When the means exceed those levels pensioners cease to be eligible for the fringe benefits. 
As the Senate knows, my colleague the Treasurer said in his recent Budget speech that television and radio licence fees would be abolished immediately. That, for example, was one of the fringe benefits which had been lost by those people who held pensioner medical cards. Of course, as there are now no charges for radio and television licences, the loss of that so-called fringe benefit is of no disadvantage to anybody. The Government's current policy on telephone rental concessions- another of the fringe benefits- is that the concession is given to age pensioners only if they hold a pensioner medical service card. The possibility of extending this benefit to all pensioners comes up for review when surveys of all pensioner benefits are made and the Government's priorities in the field of social security and other pensioner benefits are established. 
The other fringe benefits, such as the transport concessions and the reductions in municipal and other charges which apply in some States, are given on the basis of the holding of a pensioner medical service card but they are given by the relevant State or municipal authorities. The Federal Government has no control over what the State or municipal authorities may do on this matter. In the past they have determined that the people who hold these cards are entitled to certain benefits. It is entirely up to the States and the local government authorities to make a determination as to whether they wish to continue to provide those benefits. I am afraid that that is not in the hands of the Federal Government. 
That, in short, is the position. I think that on balance most pensioners are better off, although 1 believe that it has to be conceded that owing to the changes in the whole structure of the pension system there are some people who should receive the so-called fringe benefits who do not receive them. But, in general, 1 think that it would be conceded that their position overall is better than it was previously. 
in reply- I thank both  Senator Guilfoyle  and  Senator Sheil  for the contributions that they have made. I know that both honourable senators have intended that their contributions should be helpful to the administration of an area in which I know that all of us, and particularly the 2 honourable senators who have spoken, are concerned. The Government appreciates the position which has been taken by the Opposition in supporting a speedy passage of the Bills. 

 Senator Guilfoyle has asked me whether the report of the Committee of Inquiry of the Social Welfare Commission has yet been presented. The Committee has completed its inquiry but the report has not yet been drafted by the Committee. Therefore it is not yet in the possession of the Government. Accordingly, the answer to the subsequent question which she asked and which was concerned with whether the Government had made financial provision for any of the recommendations of the Committee obviously is no, because we do not know precisely what the Committee will be recommending. In order to forestall an unduly long debate when we do come to the Committee stage, perhaps I should indicate that we would be opposed to the amendment which  Senator Guilfoyle  has foreshadowed primarily for the reason that we do not have the report of the Committee. We feel that we should have the report in our hands- we do not know what the Committee is likely to be recommendingbefore we try to go ahead with extending the term from 3 years to 5 years. We feel, furthermore, that it might be better to have a look at the matter in a year's time to see how we are going before we take the step of extending the period to 5 years, which is quite a long time. 

 Senator Guilfoyle has expressed some concern that at some stage the whole of social welfare might be taken over and administered by the Government to the detriment of the existing voluntary and private organisations which work in this area. I think that  Senator Sheil  has shown a similar concern. I can assure the Opposition that this is not the intention of the Government. In fact, the purpose of these Bills is primarily to give assistance to private, charitable and religious organisations which are engaged in work in these fields. We are not trying here to establish some vast government instrumentality to carry out this work. The purpose of the Bills is to assist the voluntary organisations in carrying out this work, whose value we all recognise. I think it is quite correct, as  Senator Guilfoyle  pointed out by quoting from the learned writer whom she mentioned, that a problem is developing in our society and in most Western societies and other industrially or technically advanced societies. The number of aged persons, who are incapable of productive work and, in many respects, are incapable of leading a very full or happy life, is growing. We are finding more and more of these people the more we advance in medical science and in other technical fields. We are being faced with the increasing burden- it is an obligation which we have- to look after these people to whom both  Senator Guilfoyle  and  Senator Sheil  have referred. 

 Senator Guilfoyle has suggested that perhaps there should be some increase in the taxation concessions available to those people who do take the responsibility of looking after elderly relatives. She would realise, of course, that in none of these Bills could we deal with this matter; it would be a matter to be dealt with elsewhere. I would certainly agree with her that there are some anomalies in the whole system of taxation deductions as it stands at the present time. Although there is provision for taxation deductions in certain circumstances for people who have a direct relationship of kinship to some dependent person, there is not the same provision for people who may accept this responsibility and cannot establish the same sort of relationship. An anomaly does exist but on the whole I think it would be the policy of the Government -it would certainly be my own view- that the way to handle social problems of this type is not primarily to do it by way of taxation concessions. In many respects if it is done by taxation concessions, those people who are most in need are those who receive the least benefit. Rather it should be through Bills of the kind which we are considering today that the care of the aged people should be taken rather than leaving it to the chance that there is some relative or some friend who is prepared to look after them, with or without a taxation concession. 
I should like to deal specifically with one matter which  Senator Sheil  raised and that was the mixing of young disabled people and elderly people. I must confess that I can see advantages in this. I would have thought that at least in some countries- I think Australia is one of them- there has been a tendency towards getting away from the concept of having purely geriatric institutions and having a mixture of people of various ages within the same institution so that the old people do not feel that they have been excluded somehow from the rest of society- that they are only being left there to die and that they are not seeing people who are younger than themselves. I know that in one Catholic institution in Western Australia some years ago there was some innovation by which an orphanage and an old people's home were within the same building. The order which conducted this institution was of the opinion that it was of very great benefit for the elderly people to be in close contact with these young children. 
In any event- I suppose in a way I am arguing against myself- this is not what is happening in this particular instance. The only young disabled people who will be grouped with aged people under the terms of these Bills are those young disabled people who will not be dealt with under the Handicapped Persons Assistance Act, which is the appropriate act for the generality of young disabled persons. The only disabled people who will be looked after under the Aged or Disabled Persons Homes Act are those young disabled people who, as a result of their disablement, are prematurely aged and are suffering from disabilities which one normally finds with aged people and which are a sort of para-geriatric condition, if that is an appropriate term.  Senator Sheil  will correct me if it is not. It is one I just made up. In fact, the problem which  Senator Sheil  has envisaged does not really occur in this instance. In concluding, I would once again like to thank the Opposition for its co-operation. I should like to repeat, so that there will not be an unduly long debate in Committee, that the amendment of which  Senator Guilfoyle  has given notice, will not be accepted by the Government. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
in reply- 1 should just like to briefly respond. The position is that the present term of 3 years will expire on 27 September 1975. The expiration of the present term does not mean that the proposed institutions have to be actually erected before that date, but as long as any application has been approved before 27 September 1 975 it will be covered so that all that needs to be done is for an application to have been made and accepted. In fact, the work need not have been started nor indeed any planning or anything done other than what is necessary for the acceptance of the application. 
I understand the argument which  Senator Guilfoyle  is putting forward. But she herself has referred to the report of the Social Welfare Commission 's Committee of Inquiry. The drafting of the report is in process at the present time. We hope that it will shortly be presented. The view of the Government is that as we still do not know what the Social Welfare Commission's Committee of Inquiry will be reporting it would be more satisfactory to let the matter stand as it is. Nobody will be placed in a difficult or embarrassing position as long as they get their applications in in a period of almost one a year. If they do so, they will not be prejudiced in any way. I am informed that there are a number of applications at present being prepared for submission. This would be a more satisfactory way of dealing with the matter. Accordingly, the Government will oppose the amendment which  Senator Guilfoyle  has moved. 
Question put: 
That the proposed new clause bc inserted  (Senator Guilfoyle's amendment). 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to incorporate my second reading speech in Hansard. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Georges)-  Is leave granted? There being no dissent, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
This Bill, which repeals the Sheltered Employment (Assistance) Act and the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Act, consolidates and extends the Australian Government's programs of assistance to voluntary organisations that have assumed responsibility for the welfare of handicapped people. In doing so it takes us several steps further in our endeavour to give handicapped people every opportunity to live full and useful lives. The Sheltered Employment (Assistance) Act has been in operation for more than 7 years and the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Act for more than 4 years. Both have proved beneficial and during these years both the Department of Social Security and the voluntary organisations through which the various services are provided have learned a great deal. 
The number of disabled employees in sheltered workshops in 1966 was just over 2,000. That number has now increased to almost 10,000. The gross production income of sheltered workshops in 1966 was $2.2m. By 1974 the income had risen to $16m. But it had become clear that there was need for further improvement, not only in the basic services that were being provided, but also in the peripheral activities that help the handicapped people to participate more fully in the general life of the community. 
These questions were discussed at length with representatives of the Australian Council for Rehabilitation of Disabled, the Australian Association for the Mentally Retarded and the consultants engaged by the Department of Social Security to assist the voluntary bodies to develop effective sheltered workshops and hostels. The program that was evolved as a result of those discussions forms the basis of this Bill. Although the Sheltered Employment (Assistance) Act and the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Act will be repealed the main provisions of those 2 Acts are continued and expanded. It is designed to cater for the needs of handicapped children and handicapped adults who do not require constant medical attention but who, nevertheless, need special facilities to enable them to take thenplace in the community. 
The broad details of the new measures were contained in an announcement made earlier this year by the Minister for Social Security, when he outlined a 15-point program for the welfare of handicapped people. This Bill gives effect to those of the 15 points that require legislative action. I should like to refer to several of the more important provisions. 
The subsidy for establishing sheltered workshops for handicapped adults, training centres for handicapped childen and hostels for both children and adults will be doubled from $2 to $4 for every $1 raised by voluntary organisations. This will take effect from the date the Act receives royal assent. The extension of the rental subsidy to many new types of project will, I am sure, result in the provision of many additional and much needed services. It will also enable organisations with very limited capital resources to provide facilities. The renting of an existing large home for use as a half-way house for handicapped people being re-established in the community is but one example. The Bill also transfers the provisions relating to the handicapped children's benefit which is now administered by the Department of Social Security, from the National Health Act to this Act. In doing so the rate of benefit has been increased from $3 to $3.50 a day, and provision made to enable short absences, such as when the child returns home for a weekend, to be disregarded. 
Voluntary organisations are being faced with increasing overhead expenditure, especially on wages and salaries. And they have all had the experience that while it is still possible to get donations towards the cost of a tangible project such as a new hostel or workshop, it is much more difficult to raise charity funds to meet operational costs. The Bill introduces a salary subsidy of 50 per cent for approved staff. This provision, which previously applied only in relation to sheltered employment, will now apply to the whole range of prescribed services. With new ventures 100 per cent of staff salaries may be paid for up to 2 years to enable the service to become established. 
Also as a result of this Bill, voluntary organisations will be able to obtain subsidy assistance towards the cost of establishing activity centres for those handicapped people who cannot meet the requirements of a sheltered workshop. The 
Bill will also assist the development of recreational and rehabilitating facilities that are ancillary to either the workshop training centre or activity centre. It will encourage organisations to put greater emphasis on the social interests of the disabled. 
It is not enough to provide these people with training, sheltered employment and accommodation. They also need encouragement to lead a more normal social life and to develop the capacity to accept and be accepted by the society in which they live. At this point I would like to express my appreciation of the work of the voluntary agencies. There is a very special role for them to play for there are many people whose needs are best served by these organisations. Although the Australian Government provides for the general economic welfare of the disabled, it is the voluntary organisations that are able to help, in a way not possible for a Government department, in the personal day-to-day care of many mentally or physically handicapped people. 
Voluntary organisations have an 'individual touch'. They can deal with the person as a whole, helping with not one but perhaps four or five interlocking personal difficulties. And they can be so much more flexible in their approach. This personal interest is irreplaceable and this is why the co-operation between the voluntary agencies and the Government is so vital. The Australian Government has the financial resources; the voluntary agencies have the grassroots understanding. By working together we have achieved much. This Bill opens the way for us to achieve more. 
The provisions that are contained in this Bill constitute the Government's considered program for an area of special need. It caters for physically and mentally handicapped children and adults most of whom require assistance by way of training, supervision, employment or accommodation if their lives are not to be wasted. It provides a balanced and integrated program that is intended to serve an area of social need bounded on one side by the program of the Australian Assistance Plan, and on the other by the Hospitals and Health Services Commission. It will also be necessary to ensure that the assistance provided for handicapped children is coordinated with the activities of the Schools Commission. 
All of the measures contained in this Bill deeply involve the community. But they are measures that the community wants and, indeed, in many cases has taken the initiative in supplying. It is a privilege to be able to join forces with these voluntary organisations and so make their efforts more effective. 
We, in this Government, accept that a Government's duty is not discharged simply by assisting handicapped people to live in comfort. We accept as a challenge the role of joining with community organisations to broaden the horizons of handicapped people, to promote their abilities in both occupational and recreational activities, and overall, to improve the range of their social opportunities. At a time and in a country where expectations of higher life styles are continually rising from a base of affluence and social improvement, we want to ensure that the needs and aspirations of all Australians are met. I believe some Australians whose legitimate claims on the social conscience of our community have been the highest, have in fact, been short changed. 
The morality of the social contracts written by past governments for some of these groups has been very much open to question. All too often it has been a case of those with the most financial and political influence, the most access and the most highly developed sense of their own importance to our economic and social system receiving the most attention. On the other hand the modest, the humble and the handicapped have received only token attention. The exciting new provisions covered by this Bill provide a significant measure of the social progress we have made in the past 2 years. One measure of a civilised community is the size of the gap between the reasonable aspirations and the opportunities to fulfil those aspirations of its members. With this Bill our Government is aiming to reduce one of the gaps which has existed for far too long in Australia. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Guilfoyle)  adjourned. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's question: 
) to ( 5 ) I refer the honourable senator to the Prime Minister's answer to Senate question No. 302 which appeared in Hansard on 3 1 October 1 974, page 2 1 98. 
As honourable senators would be aware, there has been quite a lot of Press coverage recently of claims made by a  Mr Soper  that a number of servicemen during the Second World War were subjected to experiments with mustard gas and other poison gases and are suffering severe disabilities as a result.  Mr Soper  has been a frequent correspondent with me since I became a Minister and, as I understand it, with various predecessors in my portfolio. My Department has no record of such experiments having taken place although no doubt such records would in any event be kept by the Department of Defence and not by the Department of Repatriation and Compensation. We do not have records of matters of this nature. 
Generally repatriation benefits are available only to servicemen who served in a theatre of war although there are other ways, such as ex gratia payments, in which a government can give compensation to people who have suffered in the manner in which  Mr Soper  claims that these servicemen suffered during the Second World War. No claims have been received, to my knowledge, from anybody who says that he is suffering a disability or injury as a result of such experiments. The only thing I can say is that anybody who does feel he is entitled to either compensation or some other repatriation benefit as a result of these matters should immediately get in touch with the  Deputy  Commissioner of Repatriation in the State in which he lives. Beyond that, there is very little that I can say. 
At the moment the information seems to be somewhat vague as to what actually occurred and who the individuals were who were involved in these episodes, but I can assure the Senate that as soon as any application is made by anyone who has a claim, or believes that he has a claim, to make as a result of these alleged experiments it will be immediately dealt with by the officers of my Department. 
I did see the statement by  Mr Snedden  that he would consider extending the Royal Flying Doctor Service to King Island and Flinders Island. It was a rather curious matter to give consideration to as it would seem to show that  Mr Snedden  is some 1 S years behind the times. In fact Flinders Island and Cape Barren Island have been receiving the Royal Flying Doctor Service since 1960, and King Island has been receiving it since 1961. This is being done with Australian Government support. That which  Mr Snedden  says he is going to extend has been going on for nearly 15 years. In addition there are modern hospitals on these islands and they are regularly visited by specialists from the Launceston General Hospital who make use of the Royal Flying Doctor Service in order to visit these hospitals. So I can only say that one can assume from this that the advice that  Mr Snedden  is receiving on Tasmania from his New South Wales expert on Tasmanian affairs is not of a highly satisfactory order. 
in reply- I thank  Senator Guilfoyle  for enabling this message to be dealt with quickly. I repeat the commitment that was given that any matters in train before the present date of expiry of the operation of the Bill will be completed. Any applications that have been accepted by the Government will not expire on the present date of expiry. As  Senator Guilfoyle  said, there is a committee of inquiry of the Social Welfare Commission. We are waiting for a report to be presented to the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  and it is appropriate that we should have the results of this report of the committee of inquiry before further legislation is proceeded with or before we commit ourselves to extend the operation of the present Bill. For that reason I appreciate the action of the Opposition at this rather late stage in agreeing to the passage of the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
in reply- I appreciate the comments by  Senator Grimes  and the attitude put on behalf of the Opposition by  Senator Guilfoyle  in not preventing a rapid passage of this Bill. We regard it as an important Bill for the reasons that  Senator Grimes  has put to the Senate. The only thing I want to say at this stage, because the Government's position was dealt with quite thoroughly in the second reading speech, is in answer to a question asked by  Senator Guilfoyle  during the course of her remarks. She referred to the two Acts which are to be repealed by the Bill now before us, namely the Sheltered Employment Assistance Act and the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act.  Senator Guilfoyle  referred specifically to the latter Act and asked whether all of its provisions are embodied in this Bill. In fact all of the provisions of both Acts to be repealed are contained in the Bill now before the Senate. All of the matters dealt with by those 2 Acts are dealt with by this Bill. The difference is that the provisions of both Acts are to be extended by this Bill. Specifically referring to the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act about which she asked her question, one will find that a greater measure of assistance will be made available to voluntary and other organisations which provide assistance for handicapped children. All of the provisions are there but they are extended and made somewhat more worthy of the very valuable cause they are serving. We certainly are not doing anything contrary to the principles of voluntary organisations playing an active role in these fields. In fact the very purpose of the Bill is to assist voluntary organisations to play an extended part in these fields of most helpful human activity. For that reason, I am glad that the Opposition supports the Bill and I trust that it will have a rapid passage through the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The information sought cannot be supplied in a meaningful manner. 
If I may explain, the division of disease into chronic and acute is an oversimplification since acute disease in some instances will become chronic or can give rise to related chronic syndromes. 
Indeed a great deal of the research supported by the National Health and Medical Research Council which appears on cursory examination to be so-called 'basic' research has links with both acute and chronic disease. The other areas mentioned also show substantial interrelationship consequently it is not feasible to account for grants in this manner. The Council does not confine its grants solely to research into disease, but into all medical aspects of the maintenance of health, which includes the investigation of body mechanisms which are necessary for health. While grants in many of the areas mentioned may not relate directly to disease, they would certainly relate to health or medical care. 
The honourable senator may wish to peruse the published reports of the Council which list details of all research grants given, or the annual report of work done under the Medical Research Endowment Act in which all grantees outline the progress of their projects and their significance. I have recently approved medical research grants and scholarships on the recommendations of the Council for use in 1 975 totalling approximately 5 million dollars. Details of these grants will be published in the proceedings of the 79th Session of the National Health and Medical Research Council which should be available early in the new year. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
63 as at 1 November 1974. 
$549,286 on an annual basis. 
The legislation authorising the establishment and functioning of the Health Insurance Commission has been passed by the Australian Parliament. The legislation comprises two separate Acts. The first of these is the Health Insurance Commission Act, which authorises the establishment of the Commission, defines its powers and functions, provides for the manner in which it is to be financed and for associated matters. The second Act is the Health Insurance Act which upon proclamation will authorise the payment of medical benefits, hospital benefits, payments to the States for hospital services and the making of Health Program Grants. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Government has no immediate plans for the abolition of the seven day waiting period for payment of unemployment and sickness benefits which, it should be noted, is not required to be served more than once in any period of thirteen weeks. However, the matter for reducing delays in making the first payment of unemployment benefit is currently under consideration by the Department of Social Security. 
RAAF Training Aircraft 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
In answering this question it should be understood that the setting and policing of fire safety standards for nursing homes is a responsibility administered by the Queensland Government. In fact the general practice followed by previous Australian Governments and now by the present Australian Government is to accept, for purposes of establishing eligibility for nursing home benefits, nursing homes licensed by the Queensland Government. In short, the registration or the cancellation of registration of nursing homes rests in practice with the Queensland Government. 
(a) 1972 -one 1973- seven 1974- nine (as at 3 1 October 1974) 
Ascot Convalescent Home, Ascot; Avonlea Convalescent Home, Auchenflower; Bayview Nursing Home, Wellington Point; Bonnie Haven, Morningside; Brig-O-Doon Nursing Home, Yeronga; Clinton Convalescent Home, New Farm; Elin Nursing Home, Shorncliffe; Grayeagles Convalescent Home, East Brisbane; Indooroopilly Convalescent Home, Indooroopilly; Lorne Convalescent Home, Ashgrove; Lynfield Nursing Home, Wynnum; Machaven Nursing Home, Kelvin Grove; Mechain Nursing Home, Ashgrove; Moreton Nursing Home, Sandgate; Novello Nursing Home, Manly; San Michele, Ashgrove; Taringa Nursing Home, Taringa. 
All of the homes mentioned in (b) were operated as commercial enterprise homes. No religious/charitable homes have ceased operation in the last 3 years because of adverse fire reports. However, one such home, Winston House, Gympie, has recently transferred all patients to a new building and the old ' fire risk' building is being demolished. 
Details relating to nursing homes currently operating under adverse fire reports are as follows: 
Commercial Enterprise Homes 
Bellevue Nursing Home, Eagle Junction 
Date of last Fire Inspection: IS November 1973 
Description of Premises: Old elevated timber dwelling converted and extended for its present use. Exterior walls of hardwood, interior walls and ceilings of pine panelling. 
Summary of Fire Report: Some 35 items are listed for correction. Recommendations include: 
Improvements to ramps, provision of emergency lighting, replacement or rehanging of doors, provision of smoke detectors, additional fire fighting equipment, installation of fire resistant materials, installation of fire doors. 
The recommendations as set out would upgrade the fire safety of the home to a standard that would ensure a margin of safety for the occupants in a fire emergency. But it is to be understood that even by implementing the recommendations the old structure could not be classified as a Fire Safe Building in the eyes of the Fire Authority'. 
Broadwater Convalescent Home, Southport 
Date of Last Fire Inspection: 29 June 1 973 
Description of Premises: The building is an old converted house and is constructed largely of timber. 
Summary of Fire Report: The fire report in this instance does not list specific recommendations. However, the Chief Officer of the South Coast Fire Brigade Board has commented as follows: 
The risk of spread of fire is very high due to the highly combustible nature of building materials. Some of the patients are bed-ridden and most are under sedation at night, and difficulty could be experienced in evacuating these people in the event of an emergency. Owing to the nature of the flammable materials of which the building is constructed, little or no fire resistance is offered, and if fire did occur, it is the Fire Prevention Officer's opinion that it would be almost certain that loss of life may result'. 
Crana Nursing Home, Herston 
Date of Last Fire Inspection: 27 February 1974 
Description of Premises: Two buildings connected by enclosed passageway. First floor of older building constructed largely of timber. 
Summary of Fire Report: Some 8 items are listed for correction. Recommendations include: provision of emergency lighting, installation of an automatic fire alarm system, improvements to means of escape, provision of fire resistant linings. 'The absence of emergency lighting would present difficulties to any evacuation of the premises during the night '. 
The steepness of the ramp could cause injury to patients being removed from the Home in an emergency'. 
A covered passageway connects both buildings at first floor level and would assist in the rapid communication of smoke and hot gases from one building to the adjoining building'. 
The readily combustible building materials used would promote a rapid spread of fire to the first floor section'. 
Dalkeith Nursing Home, Wooloowin 
Date of Last Fire Inspection: IS March 1974 
Description of Premises: Two buildings connected by covered passageway. Set on concrete and timber stumps, external walls are timber, internal walls lined with asbestos cement sheeting and timber. 
Summary of Fire Report: Some 10 items are listed for correction. Recommendations include: provision of emergency lighting, provision of additional fire fighting equipment, alterations to doorways and passageways, introduction of fire isolation measures. 
The absence of emergency lighting would present difficulties to an evacuation of the premises during the night'. 
There is insufficient fire fighting equipment to provide adequate coverage'. 
The enclosed passage connecting both buildings would permit the rapid spread of fire and smoke between buildings'. 
Herstonville Convalescent Home, Herston 
Date of Last Fire Inspection: 28 March 1974 
Description of Premises: Two interconnected two storey buildings, the older building having timber walls and partitions in the upper storey. 
Summary of Fire Report: Some 8 items are listed for correction. Recommendations include: provision of emergency lighting, alterations to fire fighting equipment, alterations to doorways and passageway, provisions of fire proofing material. 'The absence of emergency lighting would present difficulties to an evacuation of the premises during the night should normal lighting circuits fail'. 'The open dumb waiter in the kitchen would allow the rapid passage of fire and smoke onto the first floor and ceiling space. ' 
Kelvin Nursing Home, Kelvin Grove 
Date of Last Fire Inspection: 13 December 1973 
Description of Premises: This building is a converted highset residence of considerable age. The original verandahs have been enclosed to provide more accommodation space. 
Summary of Fire Report: Some 1 1 items are listed for correction. Recommendations include: provision of emergency lighting, alterations to doorways, installation of smoke detectors, installation of fire resistant material, wider passageway. 
With the exception of the installation of an automatic fire alarm system, which does nothing to overcome the high fire risk problem, there have been no improvements to the fire safety of the home since the previous fire inspection on5 October 1971 when it was stated that 'because of the age of the building and materials of construction the spread of fire would be rapid'. 
 Under existing conditions the safe evacuation of the occupants would be doubtful '. 
Le Roy Convalescent Home, Corinda 
Date of Last Fire Inspection: 8 April 1 974 
Description of Premises: A converted high set residence of considerable age, constructed almost entirely of timber. 
Summary of Fire Report: Some 20 individual items arc listed for correction. Recommendations include: alterations to doors and doorways, installation of emergency lighting, installation of smoke detectors, alterations to corridors, installation of fire resistant material. 
In an emergency situation the loss of lighting increases any difficulty in reaching exists'. 
There is no impediment to either fire or smoke travel. The nature of the materials used in the construction is such that fire spread would be rapid '. 
MarianIlla Convalescent Home, Coorparoo 
Date of Last Fire Inspection:1 May 1974 
Description of Premises: A converted residence set on sloping ground. The building is basically of timber construction. 
Summary of Fire Report: Some 14 items are listed for correction. Recommendations include: provision of emergency lighting, installation of fire resistant material, alterations to doorways, alterations to corridors, installation of an automatic fire alarm system. 
The building is deficient in fire/smoke isolation, fire protection is below an acceptable standard and the installed fire protection equipment is also below standard'. 
It is considered that the premises can be upgraded in regard to fire safety but it would not be considered a fire safe building but one in which a margin of safety exists'. 
Rangeview Convalescent Home, Toowoomba 
Date of last Fire Inspection: 13 June 1974 
Description of Premises: The home consists of an old and new wing. The old wing of timber, glass and corrugated iron, is situated at ground level on one side and is approximately 12 feet above ground on the other side. 
Summary of Fire Report: Some 29 items are listed for correction. Recommendations include:- installation of smoke or combustion detectors, improvements to means of escape, provision of fire proofing material, smoke/fire isolate sections of the home, improve supervision of patients. 
The Fire Authority has recommended that because of: 
The age, type of construction, the difficulty of access both for fire appliances and the removal of patients in an emergency from the old wing, this wing be discontinued to be used as a convalescent home and detached from the new wing'. 
The use of an early warning system only, whilst giving an early warning, would not control a lire which it is considered would spread with great rapidity'. 
St Joseph 's Nursing Home, Morningside 
Date of Last Fire Inspection: 3 May 1974 
Description of Premises: A timber frame, timber floored structure with umber and asbestos cement interior linings. 
Summary of Fire Report: Some 14 items are listed for correction. Recommendations include: replacement of portable heaters with those of a fixed type, installation of fire resistant material, modifications to exits, stairways and ramps. 
The design and material of construction do not allow for this structure to be made a fire safe building without major reconstruction which would be an uneconomical proposition. Fire, if uncontrolled, could be expected to spread rapidly throughout the building. Fire safety of the occupants must therefore depend on adequate supervision at all times. An automatic thermal alarm is installed and this, together with normal supervision of the occupied areas, gives reasonable protection for the occupied areas'. 
St Kilda's Convalescent Home, Wynnum 
Date of Last Fire Inspection: 26 March 1974 
Description of Premises: An old timber dwelling, converted for its present use. Lined with pine and various other wallboards 
Summary of Fire Report: Some 30 items are listed for correction. Recommendations include: 
Modifications to doors and stairways, installation of emergency lighting, fire isolation of various areas, installation of "Combustion" detectors. These premises were reported to be unsuitable for use as a convalescent home. Adoption of the recommendations, it was stated would only give the inmates a degree of safety. 
St Mary's Nursing Home, Manly 
Date of Last Inspection: 19 April 1974 
Description of Premises: Two storey structure. First floor of timber construction, lined with pine and fibro inside. 
Summary of Fire Report: Some 25 items are listed for correction. Recommendations include: modification of doors and stairways, installation of smoke stop elements, installation of combustion detectors. 
The upper storey of this two storey structure is not fire isolated from the lower floor and in the opinion of the Chief Fire Officer only its replacement with a fire resistant construction would render the building fire safe. 
The first floor area is unsuitable for use as a convalescent home due to the flammability of the materials of construction '. 
Sandgate Nursing Home, Sandgate 
Date of Last Inspection: 19 March 1974 
Description of Premises: An old single storey timber frame structure with timber floors and iron roof. Internal linings arc mainly hardboard and pine. 
Summary of Fire Report: Some 12 items are listed for correction. Recommendations include: installation dan automatic fire alarm system, emergency lighting, installation of self closing doors, installation of fire resistant material. 
If an outbreak of fire occurred, rapid flame and smoke spread could be expected due to the combustible nature of materials used in construction and the design of the building'. 
Seahaven Convalescent Home, Sandgate 
Date of Last Fire Inspection: 30 April 1 974 
Description of Premises: The main building consists of a large high set dwelling, converted for its present use. Walls arc of timber, internal walls of pine, masonite and asbestos cement sheeting. 
Summary of Fire Report: Some 13 items are listed for correction. Recommendations include: installation of emergency lighting, construction of exit and ramp, installation of water extinguishers, installation of fire resistant material. 
The internal partitions possess no appreciable fire resistance and would allow the unchecked spread of fire through the entire building. Glass louvers and open fanlights above ward doors in the central passageway would permit the rapid build up of smoke concentrations to all wards'. 
Weewondilla Nursing Home, Clayfield 
Date of Last Fire Inspection: 1 6 April 1974 
Description of Premises: Large timber structure set on timber stumps. Internal partitions are constructed of fibrous plaster and asbestos cement sheeting affixed to timber stud frames. 
Summary of Fire Report: Some 1 1 items are listed for correction. Recommendations include: modifications to doors and doorways, installation of fire resistant material, installation of emergency lighting. 
The materials used in the construction of the building have no appreciable fire resistance properties, this then allows the unchecked spread of fire and smoke to all sections of the building. ' 
Wooloowin Convalescent Home, Wooloowin 
Date of Last Fire Inspection: 10 April 1974 
Description of Premises: A converted low set residence of considerable age to which an annexe has been connected at the same floor level. A further annexe abuts the original building but is set about one foot above ground level. 
Summary of First Report: Some 15 items are listed for correction. Recommendations include: installation of emergency lighting, alteration of doorways, provision of smoke detectors, installation of fire resistant material, improvements to increase the capacity of fire fighting equipment. 
Due to the age and present layout it is considered that fire spread in the Ward Building (which houses the non-ambulatory patients and the nurses station) would be very rapid.' 
Means of escape are impaired.' 
Implementation of the recommendations will not make this a "fire safe" building but are designed to allow for greater ease of escape and to restrict the rate of fire spread.' 
Woolenville Convalescent Home, Wooloowin 
Date of Last Fire Inspection: 23 November 1973 
Description of Premises: An aged, highset timber building formerly a dwelling. All internal linings, floors and ceilings in the original building are pine. 
Summary of Report: Some 20 items are listed for correction. Recommendations include: alteration of exits and doorways, provision of emergency lighting, provision of smoke detectors, installation of self closing doors, installation of fire resistant material, reconstruction of ramp and corridor. 
The condition of this building is such that any outbreak of fire would spread rapidly. The implementation of the recommendations would upgrade the fire safety to a standard that would give a margin of safety to the occupants. ' 
This does not mean that the home would then be regarded as a fire safe building.' 
Wynnum Nursing Home, Wynnum 
Date of last Fire Inspection: 14 April 1974 
Description of Premises: Consists of an old 2 storey converted dwelling of timber construction, lined with pine and assorted wall boards, a new two storey masonry and concrete structure of modern design and a small single storey annexe of masonry and concrete construction. 
Summary of Fire Report: Some 25 items are listed for correction. Recommendations include: modifications to doorways and stairways, repositioning of nurses station, installation of self-closing doors, installation of detectors, installation of fire resistant material. 
 Because of design and materials of construction of the old section the spread of fire would be rapid and for this reason this section was considered unsuitable for nursing home occupancy.' 
By the implementation of the listed recommendations, the fire-safety would be upgraded to a standard that would ensure the required margin of safety for the occupants.' 
However, it must bc understood that even with the provision of the listed requirements the old section would not fall into the category of a fire-safe building and its replacement with one of fire-resistant construction is again recommended.' 
b) Religious and Charitable Homes 
Burdeu House, Brisbane 
Date of Last Fire Inspection: 5 August 1974 
Description of Premises: Two abutting two storey buildings, the upper floor of one building being constructed of timber. 
Summary of Fire Report: 7 items arc listed for attention. Recommendations include: installation of emergency lighting, improved means of escape, kitchen walls and ceiling to be lined with fire resistant materials, fit self closing fire doors, provide extinguishers with location indicators. 
Hillcrest Nursing Home, Annerley 
Date of Last Fire Inspection: 17 April 1973 
Description of Premises: These premises comprise two sections- one of brick construction and the other older section of timber construction which is set on timber piers 10 feet high on one side. 
Summary of Fire Report: Replacement of the older timber building with a fire resistant structure is recommended. 
 Because of its age and general construction it could be anticipated that the spread of fire would be extremely rapid in this building.' 
Salvation Army Nursing Home, New Farm 
Date of Last Fire Inspection: 1 7 December 1 97 1 
Description of Premises: A very old building constructed al most entirely of timber. 
I do not think I referred to World War I veterans, but the reports, as I saw them in the Press, were correct. I think in answer to a question yesterday I said something to the effect that normally repatriation benefits were not available to veterans unless the incapacity was occasioned in a theatre of war. I have been informed subsequently by my Department that in fact these benefits would be available if the incapacity of the veteran arose out of or was attributable to his service. To revert to the matter that has been under discussion, which is the question that has been raised by a  Mr Soper  who apparently has written a book concerning mustard gas experiments that were carried on during World War II in Australia: There is still no evidence available to me or to my Department that any such experiments did take place. That is not to say that they did not take place, but certainly no claims have been received from any person arising out of any such disability or alleged disability. As I think I said yesterday,  Mr Soper  has been a quite frequent correspondent with me, as he was with my predecessors, both of the Labor Party and I think other political parties. He has raised a number of matters but not hitherto this matter. I repeat what I said yesterday with regard to this question. If there is any exserviceman who does claim that he has been incapacitated or in any way harmed as a result of taking part in these experiments, he should address his claim to the  Deputy  Commissioner of Repatriation in the State in which he lives and it will be immediately attended to. 
I also am glad that the Leader of the Government in the Senate agreed to extend question time because I did have notice from  Senator Marriott  that he was going to ask this question and I have been on tenter-hooks for the last hour waiting for it to come. The facts put by  Senator Marriott  are correct. In an effort to consolidate the insurance activities of the Australian Government, the responsibility for defence service homes insurance has been transferred from the Department of Housing and Construction to the Department of Repatriation and Compensation. So I am now the Minister responsible for defence service homes insurance, whereas the Minister for Housing and Construction was previously. 
In order to complete the administrative arrangements, an amendment to the Defence Service Homes Act is required, and in view of the large amount of legislation which we have had before both Houses of the Parliament during this sessional period it has not been practicable to introduce such an amendment to the Defence Service Homes Act. So although I am now the Minister responsible for defence service homes insurance, the Director of Defence Service Homes is still the public servant who is responsible for the whole of the previous functions of the Defence Service Homes Act, including defence service homes insurance. In view of that, if anybody has any application or request to make regarding defence service homes insurance it should be addressed, as it was in the past, to the Assistant Director, Defence Service Homes, care of the Department of Housing and Construction in each of the State capitals or, if the veteran who is concerned is within the Australian Capital Territory, to the regional office of the Defence Service Homes Division in Canberra. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to incorporate my second reading speech in Hansard. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The speech read as follows)- 
The Bill before the Senate will give effect to the undertaking, announced in another place by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in his Budget Speech of 17 September 1974, by authorising the Government to enter into agreements with charitable and other non-profit organisations conducting nursing homes. Under such agreements the Australian Government will meet the financial deficits incurred by these organisations in operating the homes. The provisions contained in the Bill further indicate this Government's concern for those in the community, particularly the aged, who are in need of specialised care and treatment. 
A few weeks ago when announcing the second substantial increase, within the space of 3 months, in the levels of nursing home benefits payable under the National Health Act, the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  reiterated the Government's undertaking to introduce a system of deficit financing to meet the losses incurred by nursing homes operated by charitable or benevolent organisations as an alternative to the existing nursing home benefit arrangements. The establishment of a deficit financing system is the core of the Nursing Homes Assistance Bill 1974. 
Charitable and benevolent organisations participate with vigour and dedication in the task of caring for the sick and the aged and indeed the care provided by these organisations has become an essential part of our overall system of health care. Their motivation stems from concern for their fellow man particularly the least affluent members of our society. This concern has resulted in many of the nursing homes incurring a deficit as a result of their operations notwithstanding the frequent generous increases in nursing home benefit rates. This has meant that the organisations have had to direct funds to meeting the deficit which otherwise may have been used to expand their accommodation facilities and the services they offer. The Government feels that by providing a means of meeting the losses incurred they will be encouraged to improve and expand the traditionally high standard of patient care that they provide. Not only will this encouragement be directed to religious and charitable organisations as such but it is hoped that local government authorities will be encouraged to provide nursing home accommodation on a local community level. 
A further important ingredient of the proposal is that the Australian Government will meet the deficits incurred by eligible organisations, including local government authorities, not only in providing inpatient care in the nursing home, but also approved services when sought by the proprietor of the home for visiting patients. It is proposed that these services will include nursing, physiotherapy and occupational therapy for visiting patients- for example, those persons residing in an aged persons complex or in a particular local government area. The provision of these additional services will represent yet another step by the Government towards the establishment of complete and integrated services for the people of Australia. These arrangements will enable the aged to be kept in the community as long as possible with the knowledge that the nursing and associated services they need will be available. I would also mention that the extended services under the deficit financing arrangements will include the cost of transportation of patients to the clinics providing these services. 
Before I outline the more important provisions of the Bill I wish to emphasise to honourable senators 2 points. First, the proposed system of deficit financing was developed in close consultation with representatives of the associations in each State representing organisations operating these nursing homes and these representatives are in agreement with the concept and the system of deficit financing to which the Bill gives effect. Second, participation in the deficit financing arrangements will be entirely at the option of an organisation. An eligible organisation, as defined in the Bill, will be completely free to take stock of its situation and decide whether or not it will enter into the deficit financing agreement with the Australian Government covering all the nursing homes it operates or for any particular nursing home. If it decides there would be no advantage for a particular nursing home it is free to remain outside the deficit financing arrangements and continue to receive the Australian Government nursing home benefits provided under the National Health Act. 
Clause 12 of the Bill is a key provision. It provides for the Minister for Social Security to approve a common form of agreement. An organisation wishing to participate in the deficit financing arrangements will enter into a common form of agreement with the Australian Government in respect of each nursing home to which it wishes the new arrangements to apply. The Bill provides that the common form of agreement will be approved by the Minister only after consultation with the associations representing eligible organisations- for example, in New South Wales the association will be the Voluntary Geriatric Association. Similarly, where the common form of agreement is varied, the associations will be consulted prior to variation of the agreement. It is proposed that the associations to which I have just referred will be prescribed in the regulations to the Bill. 
For the information of honourable senators, I would like to briefly outline the more important provisions to be included in an agreement. First, the proprietor of a nursing home will submit a budget which will be examined for reasonableness having regard to the costs of operating other nursing homes participating in the deficit financing arrangements and the nursing home's own past costs. The budget may be reviewed and updated during the year to provide for unforeseen cost increases. Second, under the arrangements the Australian Government will make advances to the nursing home to meet the deficit as it is being incurred. This will relieve the cash flow problems confronting a number of these nursing homes at the present time. Third, when the actual deficit has been determined at the end of a financial year, the final settlement will be made by the Government. 
The amount a patient will be expected to pay for nursing home care has been given particular attention in the Bill. At the present time a patient is expected to meet the fee charged by a nursing home proprietor and these fees rise with increases in costs involving the patient in increased liability. This can result in the patient experiencing financial hardship or in the home having to waive a portion of the fee. This weakness will be overcome under the new deficit financing arrangements and the Bill provides for specific fees to be charged patients in the home. Most patients will contribute $32 a week. This will ensure that a pensioner receiving the standard rate single pension and supplementary assistance will be left with $4 a week for personal spending. This will be varied by regulation having regard to changes in the rate of pension. However, there is a provision for waiver or reduction of this contribution should a patient have an entitlement to free nursing home treatment under the Repatriation system, or if, because of particular circumstances the patient would not be able to meet a fee of $32 a week, the fee may be reduced. 
In relation to workers compensation and third party cases, pending introduction of the national compensation program, the Government considers that where a person is entitled to receive compensation towards the cost of his care under the law of the State or the Territory, it is reasonable that the home should be able to recover from the insurer at least part of the cost that it would otherwise have to meet. For this reason provision has been made for a higher fee to be charged in compensation cases. This fee will be prescribed by regulation but it is visualised that it will be equal to the amount that would usually be charged a patient in a nursing home which was not participating in the deficit financing arrangements. lt has been appreciated that an organisation will need to give full consideration to all the factors involved before entering into a deficit financing agreement. Clause 15 enables any organisation which enters into an agreement at any time prior to 30 April 1975 to elect to have the agreement take effect from any time on or after 1 January 1975. Should there be any dispute over the amounts detailed in the budget submitted by the proprietor or the final deficit settlement which will be met by the Australian Government, the Bill provides for a nursing home proprietor to seek a review by the Minister. A Nursing Homes Advisory Committee will be established in each State to examine and report on these matters and in giving his decision the Minister shall consider the report of the Committee. The Committee shall comprise 3 members appointed by the Minister. I have in mind that the membership will consist of a representative of the State association representing eligible organisations, a representative of either the Australian Society of Accountants or the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia and an officer from the Department of Social Security. 
The Bill also contains machinery provisions similar to those in the National Health Act for approval of nursing homes under the new legislation. In commending this Bill to honourable senators I wish to emphasize that since coming to office the Government has not only increased the pension rates by $ 1 1 a week but has also increased nursing home benefits on 2 occasions so that in the current year it will be paying 67 per cent more by way of benefits than in 1972-73. It has also improved the flow of nursing home benefits to nursing homes to improve their liquidity position, and it has doubled the amount met under the Aged Persons Homes Act for the construction or acquisition of nursing homes from $2-for-$ 1 to $4-for-$l. The proposals contained in this Bill are a further indication of the Government's concern for the welfare of nursing home patients. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Rae)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to incorporate my second reading speech in Hansard. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The speech read as follows)- 
Honourable senators will be well aware of the emphasis placed by the present Australian Government on all aspects of social welfare, especially those involving the more socially disadvantaged people in our society. Accordingly, on 26 February 1973, the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  established a working party to examine and report on the problems of homeless men and women in Australia. At their first meeting he reminded members of the working party that the problems of homelessness permeated many age groups and areas of the Australian community. Millions of dollars are spent on the enforcement of archaic laws against these casualties of society but very little government money has been spent on providing facilities for rest, nutrition, treatment, counselling and rehabilitation which would ease the burden on the law enforcement agencies and provide a reasonable standard of support for the homeless. When the Minister for Social Security released the report of the working party on 17 July 1973, he sought public comment on the recommendations which had been made. There has been an enthusiastic response to this report. 
The Government's decision to adopt the major recommendations of the working party was first announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his election policy speech on 29 April 1974. On the occasion he said that the Government had decided to introduce a program to help meet the material needs and raise the dignity of homeless men and women. He went on to indicate that capital grants would be made available over a 3 year period to organisations for projects such as night shelters, hostels, flats, day centres and specialised clinics and centres for homeless people. The Prime Minister said: 
This is a program devised in response to a much neglected need: It will be of benefit to the young as well as the old. It will be of benefit to any person in immediate need: To the permanently homeless, to the deserted or disturbed woman and her children, to the Aboriginal or teenager in want or distress, to the battered woman or the battered child, to the single parent- in short, to anyone without support or an income. 
In delivering the Government's welfare policy speech on 1 May 1974, the Minister for Social Security gave further details of the policy the Government had endorsed. He said then that this was an area of need to which the social conscience of the Government was being directed, the basic aim of the program is to assist, by the provision of funds, counselling and resource expertise, organisations undertaking special programs on behalf of homeless people. The homeless men and women to be assisted are in poverty in the sense that they have few independent resources and lack a conventional home with most of the social or economic supports a home normally provides. 
The purpose of this Bill is to assist eligible organisations engaged in providing temporary accommodation and personal services for homeless men and women and, in one-parent family situations, their children. It proposes a program of assistance for people who find themselves without what is accepted in Australia as a normal home, through social factors such as alcoholism, inadequacy, domestic conflict or similar reasons. It is not proposed to provide emergency housing for people experiencing financial or similar problems in finding suitable housing. Nor is it proposed by this Bill to intrude into the fields of child care which traditionally are the responsibility of the States. 
The Bill offers eligible organisations an opportunity to receive financial assistance to improve and upgrade existing hostels, day attendance centres and detoxification clinics; or to replace them or to establish new facilities. This particular form of assistance will be available for 3 years. These grants may be made to meet the cost of purchasing a building for use as a homeless persons assistance centre or purchasing land and having a centre built. Alternatively, the grant may be made to cover the cost of rent of premises used as a centre. Grants will also be available to improve premises, whether owned or rented, to upgrade the services offered to homeless persons. The purchase of fixtures, furniture, furnishings and equipment used in the operation of a homeless persons assistance centre may also qualify for a grant under these provisions of the Bill. Grants may be up to 100 per cent of the cost of the project. Provision has been made for expenditure of up to $ 1.45m for the remainder of the year 1974-75. These provisions should result in a significant improvement in the standard of accommodation in homeless persons centres. 
To protect the Government funds which may be granted for these projects, participating organisations may be required to enter into agreements. These agreements would provide that, in the event of the closing of the centre, the Australian Government's contribution, based on the proportion of the subsidy paid to the cost of the project, would be recovered. This is similar to provisions in other legislation administered by the Department of Social Security and corresponds with an equivalent provision in the Handicapped Persons Assistance Bill 1974. There will also be subsidies towards other expenses, generally those of a recurrent nature. The 3 year time period mentioned previously in relation to subsidies of a capital nature will not apply to these subsidies for operating expenses. 
The Bill offers a subsidy of up to 50 per cent of the salary of a suitably qualified or experienced social welfare worker employed at a homeless persons centre. The term 'social welfare worker' includes a social worker, welfare officer, psychologist, occupational therapist or other person providing a service or treatment for homeless people. In special circumstances this subsidy may be paid for more than one staff member at a centre. Provision has been made for expenditure of up to $250,000 for these purposes for the remainder of the year 1974-75. Funds were allocated in Appropriation Act No. 2 for making capital grants and paying salary subsidies. Further amounts will be sought by appropriation as required. 
The Bill provides for further subsidies for organisations providing food or accommodation or food only for homeless people, the amounts payable to be fixed by regulation. In accordance with the recommendations of the working party's report, it is proposed that eligible organisations offering food and accommodation may qualify for a subsidy of up to 75c a day per person accommodated. Similarly, it is proposed that centres providing food only may quality for a subsidy of up to 20c per meal served or meal ticket issued. The rates of these subsidies will be reviewed from time to time in the light of experience and as part of the on-going evaluation of the program. The funds for these subsidies will be provided from the National Welfare Fund and provision has been made for expenditure of up to $550,000 for the remainder of the year 1974-75. As I have just indicated the whole program of assistance will be subject to a thorough and continuous review. The scope, value and standards of the services provided will be monitored and an assessment of the total program will be made prior to the expiration of the first 3 years of its operation. 
Earlier announcements regarding the Government's intention to introduce this worthwhile program, an initiative in a completely new field as far as the Australian Government is concerned, mentioned that statutory authorities would be able to participate. We are mindful of the fact that the main burden in this area has hitherto been carried by voluntary organisations, and their experience and dedication has been long and well established. In view of the interest which the voluntary sector has displayed since the Government's intentions were made known, and the constraints imposed upon us by the finance available, it seems desirable that in the first instance priority in relation to eligibility for assistance be extended to the voluntary sector. Assistance for voluntary bodies will enable them not only to continue their existing work in this area but also to extend and further develop their activities, including innovative projects. Many of the agencies have been anxious to initiate new approaches but have been hamstrung because of financial limitations. 
Accordingly, resources available under the program will, in the first instance, be concentrated on voluntary organisations and local governing bodies. As the scheme develops, and as its operations are assessed and evaluated, its scope may be widened in the light of experience to extend eligibility also to State departments and authorities. Many of the men and women who will benefit from the improved services for the homeless are now receiving income security benefits at rates and under conditions which, in accordance with the Government's enlightened and progressive policy, have been liberalised dramatically since the end of 1972. They could, therefore, be expected to contribute towards the cost of these services. Eligible organisations receiving grants and subsidies will be able to make an appropriate charge for services provided to the homeless. 
Through this program, the Government hopes to achieve a steady improvement in the services available to homeless people. We hope that the improved facilities for temporary accommodation and for rest, nutrition, counselling and treatment, will allow may of the homeless to be given the choice and opportunity of returning to what might be regarded as a normal life. The Government's belief in social justice, which has been demonstrated by massive inputs to our social welfare program, opens up the possibility of programs such as this leading to a diminution of the problem through the rehabilitation of this group of the socially disadvantaged. This Bill is designed to provide both a reasonable standard of support and increased opportunities for homeless people, enabling them to obtain a place of dignity in the fabric of Australian society. 
The Bill provides for the establishment of advisory committees to help develop a coordinated program of assistance. It is hoped to establish these committees as quickly as possible, ensuring that all involved in the welfare of the homeless participate in the work of the committees. The Bill is an expression of this Government's social conscience and its commitment to assist in a tangible and practical way, people who have become casualties within our competitive society. The measures proposed within the Bill are based on a compassionate understanding of the needs and very real problems and homeless men and women and of their alienation, their loneliness and their despair. Our Government is determined to end such areas of neglect. This Bill is one expression of that determination. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Rae)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to incorporate my second reading speech in Hansard. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted for the Minister to incorporate his second reading speech? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The speech read as follows)- 
The Bill before the Senate contains provisions relating to a number of the Government's activities regarding health insurance and benefits authorised by the National Health Act. Following the election of this Government to office at the end of 1972, we embarked on a diversified legislative program directed to various aspects of our health insurance initiatives. They were twopronged. Our main effort, of course, was directed to the Government's own health insurance program- culminating with the passing of the Health Insurance Act and the Health Insurance Commission Act. This main effort was supplemented by investigations as to the manner in which the legislation authorising the present voluntary health insurance arrangements could be improved. Proposals directed to improvements to the legislation authorising the present health insurance arrangements were placed before the Government recently. We were then faced with a decision as to whether they should be proceeded with, in view of the imminence of our own health insurance program- scheduled for introduction on 1 July 1 975. On balance it was decided that we should proceed with proposals to improve the legislative controls directed to the present voluntary insurance arrangements so that the improvements to the legislation could apply for the remainder of the life of those arrangements. 
The existing private health insurance scheme authorised by the National Health Act, in fact, is a system supported by extremely generous direct and indirect subsidy from the Australian Government and State governments. The health benefit organisations could not have grown to their present significance nor could they continue to operate, except for the very generous support that comes from Government sources, directly and indirectly. For instance, on average over 60 per cent of the cost of medical services covered by medical ' insurance is met by direct subsidy from the Australian Government through the health insurance scheme and by indirect subsidy from the same source through tax concessions, which are a cost borne by the Government. In the case of private ward treatment in a public hospital, for instance in New South Wales the fee charged to the patient is currently $39 per day. However, the average bed-day cost of a public hospital bed in that State is estimated to be at least $60 a day. Clearly there is an explicit direct subsidy here, and similarly from Australian Government sources there is a $2 bed-day subsidy paid directly to insured patients, special account subsidies which average approximately $4.50 a day over all patients, plus an indirect subsidy available through the taxation system when hospital fund contributions and net fees are claimed as a concessional deduction. 
The overall effect is that Governments, that is Australian and State governments, are meeting in excess of 60 per cent of the average private ward treatment of a patient in a public hospital in New South Wales. Therefore it is clearly in the interests of the people of Australia that the system of a private health insurance scheme should be properly supervised by the Australian Government and it is the clear responsibility of the Government to exercise this supervision. The most important provisions in the Bill are designed to enable the responsible Minister to exercise more effectively this supervision of the operations of the health benefits organisations registered under the National Health Act in a way that will enable the Government of the day to achieve its objectives. The present Government recognises, as have previous Governments, the need for additional measures in this regard. There was established the Committee of Inquiry into Health Insurance, the Nimmo Committee, which presented its report during 1969, and the Senate also set up its own Committee to enquire into medical and hospital costs. At that time a matter of major concern was the financial policies followed by some of the health benefits organisations. Another matter of concern was that hospital and medical benefits should be more closely related to the fees being charged for hospital and medical services. 
Following consideration of the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Health Insurance, amendments to the National Health Act were introduced by the previous Government aimed at rectifying some of the unsatisfactory aspects of the health insurance scheme including the two I have already mentioned. The previous Government also announced they would be sponsoring additional measures of the nature of those included in this Bill. The then Minister for Health, the  Hon.  A. J. Forbes, in his address to the House of Representatives dated 4 March 1970, made the following statement: 
In addition to the new measures which I have just mentioned, the Government is considering the introduction of legislation providing for penalties to be imposed on funds' officers for serious neglect of their responsibilities, and enabling the replacement of funds' officers by appointed managers in certain circumstances, as proposed in the Nimmo Committee's recommendation 37. 
Recommendation 37 of the Nimmo Committee to which  Dr Forbes  referred reads as follows: 
That organisations and their officers be subject to penalties for any failures to comply with the conditions imposed by and under the National Health Act. 
The relevant paragraphs of the Nimmo Committee Report are 14.15 to 14.18 and I would refer all honourable senators to those findings of the Nimmo Committee. 
It was recognised by the previous Government, and it has caused concern to the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  that where an organisation does not comply with the Act, or actions taken under the Act, ultimately the only course of action available is to cancel the registration of the organisation. This is a most unsatisfactory punitive measure as the penalty falls on the contributor, who is deprived of Australian Government benefits. Furthermore, deregistration would effectively end any control the Australian Government could exercise over reserves. This could, in certain circumstances, be a most unhappy situation for contributors whose money has, in fact, been accumulated in reserves if, for instance, a deregistered fund no longer required to responsibly administer its affairs in the interest of contributors at the direction of the Australian Government, could direct that reserve money into some other commitment which bore no benefit for contributors and over which they had no influence or in which they held no equity. It should be borne in mind, however, that deregistration is the least preferred option. The trouble at the moment is that there are no other options and in an extreme case of a private fund flouting the reasonable directions of Government, nothing but this extremely punitive and unsatisfactory measure is really available to Government, if it wishes to ensure that funds properly discharge their responsibilities to contributors. Following careful consideration of this situation, the Government has framed provisions similar to those in the Insurance Act to protect the interests of contributors which are compatible with the intentions of the previous Government as made clear in the statement by the then Minister for Health. This Government also believes these to be proper measures which should be included in Federal legislation relating to aspects of private insurance to ensure that the administration of such insurance arrangements can be adequately supervised in the interests of contributors. 
The Bill includes provisions to enable the Minister, where he believes it to be in the contributor's interests, to request an organisation to show cause why it should not be investigated in relation to specified matters. Where the organisation fails to satisfy the Minister, and he believes it to be in the contributor's interests, he may appoint an inspector to conduct an investigation into specified matters relating to the affairs of the organisation. The Bill further provides that after he has considered the report of the inspector, the Minister may take such action consistent with the Act as he considers appropriate. This may include making an application to the Australian Industrial Court for the appointment by the Court of a judicial manager to manage the affairs of the fund or for the fund to be wound-up by the Court. 
Provision is included in the Bill to require a judicial manager, appointed by the Court, to conduct the affairs of the fund with the greatest economy consistent with efficiency and to report to the Court, as soon as possible, as to the course of action to be taken in. relation to the fund. This could include recommendations to return the fund to its former management; to transfer all or part of its affairs to another organisation with the consent of the other organisation; or that the fund be wound-up. The Bill provides for funds to be wound-up under the supervision of the Court upon an application and in accordance with a scheme submitted by the Minister, the judicial manager or the organisation conducting the fund. All schemes for winding-up are to be subject to confirmation by the Court which may vary the schemes. The Court is required where practicable to effect the transfer of contributors to a fund to be wound-up to a fund conducted by another registered organisation. 
As I stated earlier the arrangements I have outlined are along the lines of arrangements provided for in the Insurance Act and I believe all honourable senators will welcome their enactment as a positive step forward in the protection of the interests of contributors to health benefits funds. The Bill also contains provisions to provide greater flexibility as to the manner in which reserves of medical and hospital funds may be utilised. There has been considerable controversy recently regarding the reserves of funds and it will be to the general advantage of both the funds and the Government if the rigidity at present contained in the Act regarding the reserves is removed. The rigidity arises mainly from sections 67 and 68 of the present Act which provide that the reserves must remain in the fund which has accumulated them and cannot be used for any other purpose, not even to support some other fund of the organisation that is also registered under the National Health Act. To quote an actual example, the reserves of the hospital fund of a leading organisation in Victoria stand at the equivalent of 6.4 months contribution income, whereas the reserves of the medical fund of the same organisation stand at a deficit equivalent to 2.4 months contribution income. Surely it would be a sensible approach to follow if the excess reserves in the hospital fund could be transferred to remove the deficit balance in the medical fund. The BUI provides therefore that an organisation will be permitted to apply to the Minister for the transfer of reserves from one registered fund to another registered fund. It also provides that the Minister may direct the transfer of reserves in this way where the Registration 
Committee- the expert committee established under the National Health Act- so recommends. 
There is an allied provision that concerns the special accounts operated within medical and hospital funds by registered organisations. These special accounts which are authorised by Part VI, Division 2 of the National Health Act, ensure that contributors continue to receive medical and hospital fund benefits which otherwise they would be denied by the pre-existing, chronic or maximum benefit rules of the organisations restricting the payment of fund benefits. The Government has been very concerned at the tremendous rate of escalation of the cost of these special accounts. For medical and hospital funds combined, Government expenditure on them has risen from $22m in 1970-71 to $55m in 1973-74. The estimated expenditure on special accounts in the current financial year is $77m and this must be revised upwards due to substantial increases in hospital charges. This escalation in Government spending arising from underwriting the activities of health benefits funds through the special account mechanism has occurred at the time when there were extremely large reserves accumulated by the funds. It has now reached the stage where overall 20 per cent of hospital fund benefits are met by the Government through the special account and to quote an example, Government expenditure is now almost one third of the expenditure of one of the major funds on hospital fund benefits. 
The special accounts machinery provides a hidden subsidy to medical and hospital benefits funds and the structure of the legislation is such that the system can be manipulated to the advantage of organisations. Of course, most organisations do use the special account machinery in a responsible fashion, but I am concerned that not all approach it in this way. For example, the fund benefits paid from the special accounts for the medical and hospital funds operated by the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia in Queensland increased from $672,000 in the period July to September 1971 to $1,664,000 in the period April to June 1974. Further, the number of contributors transferred to the medical and hospital special accounts of that organisation increased from 277 and 2 1 8 respectively in the period July to September 1971 to 930 and 790 respectively during the period April to June 1 974. It must be realised that the special account system was designed by the previous LiberalCountry Party Government to prop up the health benefits funds. The transfer of contributors by an organisation to a special account it operates is entirely at the option of the organisation in accordance with its rules relating to contributors with pre-existing ailments, who exceed a maximum benefit level or who, in the case of the hospital special account, are chronically ill. The existing legislative provisions are loosely framed to permit the organisations to take advantage of the subsidy provided through the special account arrangements to a much greater extent than this Government believes is proper. There is not even power in the Act for the responsible Minister to withdraw the special account subsidies from an organisation. 
The fairly wide margin of interpretation permitted organisations is particularly reflected in the statistics to which I have just referred for the Medical Benefits Fund, Queensland. These figures indicate that this organisation has, since  1971,  availed itself more and more of the special account subsidies. This Bill does not propose any revolutionary change to the special account machinery but it does provide that, where it is proper for him to do so, and when he has received a recommendation of the Registration Committee that the moneys standing to the credit of a fund may properly be reduced, the Minister may direct that a portion of any excessive reserves held in a medical or hospital fund may be used to finance, in part, medical and hospital benefits for the long term and chronically ill members of the fund. The specific provision is contained in new section  74c  and visualises portion of any excessive reserves being credited to the organisation's special account for the purpose of providing benefits to high drawing members who, as I have just mentioned, are usually the long term and chronically ill. In any one year in which the Minister makes a direction under this new section, the amount to be transferred is limited to 25 per cent of the amount of the special account defict of the fund in the last completed financial year. 
There are provisions in the Bill for directions of the Minister given under new section  74c  to be the subject of review. It is intended that the reviews should be conducted by the general administrative appeals tribunal, legislation for which is being prepared by the AttorneyGeneral. However, if it is necessary for a review to be conducted in the interim period before the appeals tribunal is established the Bill provides for an independent tribunal to be established specifically for the purpose of reviewing directions by the Minister. It is intended that the tribunal which may be established by this Bill will comprise three members. One will represent the interests of health benefit organisations, another the interests of contributors to the organisations and that the third member would be a qualified accountant. 
The Bill before the Senate also includes provisions relating to four matters associated with the administration and payment of nursing home benefits. The proposed new definition of Government nursing home' in sub-clause 3 (i) and other clauses provide for public nursing homes in the Australian Territories to be exempted from nursing home admission and fees supervision under the National Health Act as are public nursing homes in the States at present. Clause 15 provides for a specific power to vary by regulation the rates of additional Australian Government nursing home benefits for pensioners with pensioner medical service entitlement and their dependants and the rates of nursing home fund benefits for insured patients. 
Clauses 16 and 25 include provisions amending section 57b and 73c of the National Health Act to provide for an increase in the nursing home patient contribution from $2.55 a day to $4.55 a day. Sections 57b and 73c are machinery provisions which are invoked only where the approved fee for a nursing home patient is less than the aggregate of the nursing home benefits payable and the patient contribution. In this situation, the invoking of these provisions means that nursing home benefits are reduced with the effect that patients in all nursing homes pay the same patient contribution. This contribution will be $4.55 a day or $3 1.85 a week and is fixed so as to leave a patient in receipt of the standard rate single pension plus supplementary allowance with approximately $4 a week for personal spending. Clause 42 provides for the incorporation of the rates of additional nursing home benefit, as currently prescribed by regulation, into the Eighth Schedule of the National Health Act with effect from 15 October 1974. There are also a number of provisions in the Bill to effect machinery amendments to the National Health Act to delete provisions relating to the payment of handicapped children's benefits, to clarify the provisions regarding directions by the Minister under section 73  b  and to enable provisions in the National Health Act relating to the supervision of registered organisations to override State laws where the statutes are inconsistent. 
I now turn to the two matters provided for in the Bill which fall within the portfolio of my colleague the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham).  As announced in the Treasurer's 
Budget Speech, stoma appliances and home dialysis equipment and supplies will be made available free of charge to those who need them. This is yet further evidence of the Government's determination to provide a high quality health care service and of its acceptance of its special responsibility to assist those members of the community who are sick or disabled. 
The Bill will allow for the preservation of the existing hearing aid scheme provided for under the repealed section 9A. It also empowers the Minister for Health to arrange for the provision of such medical or surgical aids, appliances and equipment as are prescribed in Regulations under the Act on such conditions as the Minister thinks fit. It also provides for the making of modifications to a building, vehicle or equipment necessary for the treatment or rehabilitation of the sick or disabled. It is intended, once the necessary regulations have been made, to distribute stoma appliances free of charge through hospitals and stoma associations and home dialysis equipment through hospital dialysistransplantation centres. The Government is at present considering extending the range of aids, appliances and equipment to be made available and the Bill, as drafted, will permit the extension of the scheme from time to time as the needs of disabled groups in the community are assessed. 
The second matter provided for in the Bill which comes within my colleague's portfolio relates to pharmaceutical benefits dispensed through friendly societies' dispensaries. The National Health Act now restricts in some respects the services that can be given to the general public by some dispensaries run by friendly societies. At present the number of friendly society dispensaries with full approval to dispense benefits to the public has been taken up in both Queensland and South Australia and there are currently 7 dispensaries in Queensland and 5 in South Australia which have only a limited approval to dispense benefits to members of the society, their wives and dependent children under the age of 16 years. The Bill provides that the number of dispensaries with full approvals in Queensland and South Australia be raised to permit dispensaries with limited approval in those States as at 1 November 1974 to be granted full approval. This amendment will have the effect of improving the pharmaceutical service in those States without increasing the number of pharmacies. 
The Bill further provides that full-time student dependants of members, up to the maximum age provided for in the rules of the friendly societies concerned, be afforded the same benefits as parent members and children under the age of 1 6 years.  Mr President,  I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Rae)  adjourned. 
I was particularly interested in the last words of  Senator Greenwood  in which he said that the corruption of the Government had extended to its officers.  Senator Greenwood  has said tonight that the First Assistant Commissioner of Taxation is corrupt. He said that he will repeat his statements outside the Parliament. He has made that offer, and I here and now ask  Senator Greenwood  to go outside the Senate and say outside the Senate what he has said tonight, that the First Assistant Commissioner of Taxation is corrupt. I know that he will not do it. I know that he is relying on the protection of Parliament. I know that he said it because these proceedings are being broadcast. I know that this braggadocio about what he will say outside Parliament will not be lived up to. I guarantee here and now to anybody who was listening to  Senator Greenwood  that he will not have the courage, that he will not have the honesty, that he will not have the calibre of a man to step outside this Senate and repeat what he just said about a responsible officer of the Taxation Office of this country, a man who was appointed by the previous Government. We know that he will not. Let us judge him tomorrow. Let us question him tomorrow about what he has done when he has sat in his cowardice and made this accusation against a man who is unable to defend himself. I do not intend to engage in the tedious - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! I will not have you reflect on another senator in any way. I ask you to withdraw that remark. 

 - Mr Deputy President, if you are asking me to withdraw, I do withdraw, but in doing so I would remind you that we have just been accused by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition of being corrupt. No requirement to withdraw was made then. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! There is a difference in this place between a party being said to be corrupt or a group being suggested as being corrupt and saying directly to a member of the Parliament that he may be cowardly or some other such matter. Thank you for withdrawing. 
I will withdraw, but I will not engage in the tedious repetition of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition whose paranoia seems to increase with the number of Liberal senators who vacate the benches when he speaks. It is interesting to note that he no sooner gets to his feet than the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  and the Opposition Whip find it necessary to leave the chamber. One can have full sympathy with them for doing so. 
But what is it that he said tonight? He said that there was a corrupt operation engaged in by the Government or its agent- in this case, the First Assistant Commissioner of Taxation,  Mr Curtin. Senator Greenwood,  in order to prove the dishonesty of the First Assistant Commissioner of Taxation, has established for our benefit that he was related to the former Prime Minister,  Mr John  Curtin. This no doubt is part of his corrupt motive, according to the mind of  Senator Greenwoodthe  man, if he is related to John Curtin, must of necessity be corrupt. I take it that is the point he is making to us tonight. He said that the corrupt First Assistant Commissioner of Taxation under the direction of a corrupt government has made some arrangement whereby donations can be made to the John Curtin House Appeal. It is interesting that he makes these allegations while Parliament is being broadcast and it is interesting that he makes them while he is under privilege and without casting any moral aspersions. I once again repeat that it will be interesting to see whether he carries out his promise and repeats his allegation of corruption against the First Assistant Commissioner outside this chamber. He need not fear that we shall forget that he has made this allegation. 
What is it that he said? He said that a corrupt arrangement was made by the corrupt First Assistant Commissioner of Taxation under the direction of a corrupt government. This question was put yesterday in the House of Representatives by his friend  Mr Fraser,  the man who wanted to become the Leader of the Opposition and take over that good permanent job from  Mr Snedden.  That same allegation was made by way of a question asked yesterday of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  The Treasurer answered the question admirably. He answered the question completely and, in fact, the arrangement which the First Assistant Commissioner of Taxation specified in his letter to the secretary of the John Curtin House Appeal was precisely in the same terms as the arrangement which was made when the appeal was made for John McEwen House on behalf of the Australian Country Party. It is exactly the same arrangement which occurred under the previous Government- exactly the same arrangement. Yet  Senator Greenwood  comes along tonight and says that we are corrupt when precisely the same arrangement was made for the benefit of the Country Party under the previous Government. The question has been answered already in the House of Representatives; already it has been dealt with. 
I have grave doubts that any of the Press will be carrying  Senator Greenwood's  story. I think the Press has lost interest in him except out of some sort of curiosity. The Australian Labor Party can certainly stand up to anything that  Senator Greenwood  has to offer but I think it is a disgraceful situation that a public servant should have made against him an allegation of the nature that  Senator Greenwood  has made tonight. I believe that this shows the level of  Senator Greenwood.  I must say in fairness to them that I do not think what has been said reflects, generally speaking, the views of members of the Liberal Party. I doubt whether the allegations of corruption will be repeated by other members of the Liberal Party. It is interesting that  Senator Greenwood's  own leader and his Party's Whip chose quite ostentatiously to leave the chamber as soon as he started to speak. I think the people of Australia will be able to judge how much reliance they can place on  Senator Greenwood  's evidence, how much reliance they can place on  Senator Greenwood's  integrity, and how much reliance they can place on  Senator Greenwood's  word when they see whether outside this Senate he repeats all that he has said tonight, as he promised to do while he was speaking. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  I call  Senator Bishop. 
I will give consideration to a number of matters that the honourable senator has raised. I am delighted but, I must confess, somewhat surprised to learn that there is a socialist government in Tasmania. I accept  Senator Bessell  's assurance that that is the case. I was not fully acquainted, I have to confess, with the policy. I do not know whose policy point this was. I take it that it is  Senator Bessell  's policy. It is someone's policy, anyway. In itself, it does not sound a bad sort of a policy. As I remember the question, it was stated that  Mr Snedden  had said that a Royal Flying Doctor Service would be installed by a Liberal Government to serve King and Flinders Islands. There already has been a Royal Flying Doctor Service serving those Islands for approximately 15 years.  Senator Bessell  tells me now that somebody has a policy- someone I take it who deplores the rampant socialism in Tasmania- that the Royal Flying Doctor Service will provide an aircraft to be engaged in social purposes. This could have mixed value, I suppose. I thank the honourable senator for his suggestion and I will pass it on to the responsible Minister for investigation. 
I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I seek leave to make a personal explanation as one who took part in the debate last night. I claim to have been misrepresented in what I said last night by implication in what  Senator Greenwood  has now said. I refer to Hansard and the final paragraph of  Senator Greenwood's  speech where he said, referring to the Government: 
. its own corruption extends to the officers for whom it is responsible. 
This statement followed references to the Commissioner and the First Assistant Commissioner of Taxation. I stand by what I say, and that is that last night  Senator Greenwood  said that they were engaged in corruption. 
I wish to reply very briefly to what has been said by some Opposition speakers. The purpose of clause 38 (b) is to retain the number of existing friendly society pharmacies. We think it would be most disgraceful if the friendly society pharmacies- they are small in number and do provide services for many people who would not, in the past at any rate, have been able to afford to obtain pharmaceutical goods without the existence of friendly societies- were to be destroyed through the introduction of a national health scheme. I would be interested to know what suggestion could be made as to how the same sort of taxation provisions as are applied to a private entrepreneur could be applied to a cooperative of the nature of friendly societies which conduct pharmacies. I think this is contrary to the encouragement to which lip service is paid by most governments which would be content at least to say that they were in favour of cooperative enterprises. I believe that the Opposition should be clear about what it is saying here. It is saying something which is consistent with the whole theme of its approach to a national health scheme. The Opposition Parties believe that health services ought to be conducted for profit, whether it is by a private medical practitioner, a private hospital or a private pharmacy. What we are trying to do in this case is to encourage the sort of thing which they have said in debates on other Bills in relation to social welfare which have come before this place ought to be encouraged, namely private initiative. Although it is not private enterprise in the ordinary sense of the words 'co-operative enterprise', it is private initiative. I am informed that according to the Commissioner of Taxation- I know he is not held in very high regard by some members of the Opposition, or at least by one of themthere is no differentiation in taxation as between friendly society pharmacies and private pharmacies. That is what the Commissioner of Taxation informs us. I know that reflections were cast last night on the Commissioner and I hope that we will not hear the same reflections cast on him again this evening. If the argument of the Opposition Parties is that there is some differentiation in taxation, all I can say is that my advice from the Commissioner of Taxation is that this is not so. We do believe in co-operative enterprise as far as health is concerned. We do not believe that health is something which ought to be in the hands of private enterprise for individuals to make private profits from, and for that reason we are opposed to the deletion of sub-clause 38 (b). 
Question put: 
That clause 38(b) be agreed to. 
in reply- I do not want to speak at any length on this matter. The Government regards all of the provisions of the Bill as being integral to the Government's purpose in establishing a national health scheme throughout Australia. We believe that it was part of the mandate on which we were elected to office. I do not think that any purpose is served at this time in going into the matters to which  Senator Guilfoyle  has referred in detail. They will certainly be raised again in the Committee stage of the debate. I think that it would be much to the Senate's satisfaction if I were to leave the debate on the motion for the second reading of this Bill at this stage. 

<graphic href="062232197412055_70_14_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="062232197412055_70_14_1_A.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 2 1 -by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clauses 22 and 23- by leave- taken together. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
The article correctly states my views in the context of facilities and services for the early detection, treatment, rehabilitation and education of young handicapped children in the Australian Capital Territory. 
There is ongoing departmental monitoring of the effectiveness of the child screening and rehabilitation services, and continual team assessment of the treatment of individual cases. In addition, a Rehabilitation Advisory Committee comprising a variety of health and medical professionals from a number of Government and hospital departments reviews and makes recommendations on the adequacy of rehabilitation services in the Australian Capital Territory and co-ordinates departmental initiatives in this area. 
No objective assessments are currently being undertaken. 
The Minister for Health has provided the the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I ) to (5) I refer the honourable senator to the answer to question No. 302, provided by  Senator Murphy,  published in Hansard, 31 October 1974, page 2 198. 
-The Department of Repatriation and Compensation primarily through its activities in the field of repatriation, specifically the Repatriation Commission, provides extensive medical services. Obviously it is necessary, if we are to provide adequate medical services for the large number of people whom we must serve, that training be given in the medical and nursing fields. All the repatriation general hospitals are now teaching hospitals. For the year ended 31 March last 364 medical undergraduates underwent training in repatriation general hospitals, and 320 student nurses underwent this training. In addition considerable numbers of graduate nurses, nursing aides and postgraduate nurses also received their training in repatriation general hospitals. The Department was responsible, through its initiatives, for securing the establishment by the State of Victoria of a 3-year diploma course in prosthetics and orthotics. I must confess that I do not know precisely what they are- perhaps some of the other senators can enlighten me- but I am told that they are of considerable importance to the general medical services. Overall the Department is concerned about this matter and does use its own hospitals and through its initiatives makes use of other services for the training of medical and paramedical staff. 
I know nothing of these matters which have taken place in Moorabbin and which have so agitated  Senator Missen.  I find it difficult to believe that the Minister for Health has not engaged in proper consultation before he has established a hospital or before he has done anything else. I do find it very interestingand a matter from which the Government should take great heart- that a Liberal senator,  Senator Missen,  is not complaining about a shortage of medical services but a superabundance of medical services. I think it is an indication of the kinds of actions which have been taken by this Government that the Opposition cannot complain about a shortage of medical services; all it can say is that there are too many hospitals under a Labor government. I would certainly far rather be accused of having too many hospitals than of having too few hospitals which was the case under our miserable predecessors. As for the remainder of these matters, I shall put them to the Minister. If he lets me have a reply before the Senate rises I shall see that  Senator Missen  gets it. 
-The Department of Repatriation and Compensation and its predecessor the Department of Repatriation, have been using computers in their medical services now for more than 3 years. A national computer centre for the Department has been set up in Sydney. It is used both for the branch office of the Department and also for the services related to hospital patients in that State. As far as the hospitals are concerned, computers are used in a number of ways, but particularly in the pathology department, to assess automatically and to print out the results of various tests. There are a number of other purposes for which they are used in addition to those I have mentioned. So far, the results which have been obtained from the use of these computers have been very encouraging. The computer system of the Repatriation General Hospital at Concord, New South Wales, which is one of the largest hospitals in Australia, is in the forefront, I am informed, of medical computing in Australia. 

 Mr DITCHBURN 

I shall refer to the Minister for Social Security that part of the honourable senator's question regarding the tabling of the report, and I hope to let  Senator Guilfoyle  have an answer as soon as possible. I find it interesting that people who speak on behalf of the Opposition should be talking about the provision which is made for unemployed people when in fact the provision which is made by this Government for unemployed people far exceeds any provision which has been made for unemployed people in the history of Australia. If one compares the present situation in relation to the retraining of unemployed people and the social security provisions for unemployed people with that which applied under the Menzies Government when there was a higher rate of unemployment than there is at the present time under this Government, one can see the very strong differences which have occurred. As for the Opposition's policy in relation to the 7-day waiting period, the Opposition had 23 years in which to abolish the 7-day waiting period but did nothing about it. We are faced with an economic crisis. There is no question about that. We are faced with a world wide economic crisis, and there is no point in denying it. 
I know that  Senator Greenwood,  with his masterly erudition in Keynesian economics and latest theories of von Hayek, would have these matters at his fingertips, but unfortunately he has kept his solutions to these economic problems a secret. He will not tell us yet how he is going to solve the problems of inflation and unemployment. We are all waiting for the great day of revelation to come, but so far he has played his cards so close to his chest that they have disappeared inside his singlet. I shall refer the question to the relevant Minister, but in the meantime 1 assure the Parliament that we shall continue to make every adequate provision for social security payments to and retraining and relocation of any unemployed persons in Australia. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 

 Mr Deputy President, I seek leave to have my second reading speech incorporated in Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The speech read as follows)- 
Honourable senators will be aware of worldwide concern for the conservation of wildlife and of places of natural, scenic, scientific and recreational significance. The environment produced by the billions of years of evolution which has resulted in man in his present state, is being drastically altered in a few decades by man himself. Everywhere the natural systems which evolved with man and of which he is part are under threat. We must make a strong stand and determine that this generation will ensure that evolution itself will proceed as much as possible without deliberate or unthinking intervention by man. Over 100 nations have taken action for the permanent reservation of natural areas to represent the range of landscapes and ecosystems within their boundaries, and to protect their unique wildlife resources. They have assembled professional staff to ensure the effective planning and management needed to consolidate legislation and area reservation. 
Despite the excellent initiatives taken in some States, our record in Australia has not been good. Since the arrival of the white man some 5 species of marsupial and several species of bird have been wiped out. Many other species have been endangered. The area of our vast continent dedicated as parks and reserves is far from sufficient. Both the House of Representatives Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation and the Committee of Inquiry into the National Estate have underlined the pressing need for action at various levels to rectify deficiencies in the system in this country. 
This Government is taking action which accords with the sentiments of those reports. The Bill proposes the establishment of a professional service to enable the Australian Government, for the first time, to bring a co-ordinated approach to the management of nature conservation resources in the areas under its direct control. The Bill is the product of 18 months of careful work and thought and is a major initiative aimed at overcoming the inactivity of the past. The Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  will also soon be introducing a Bill to make finance available to the States for nature conservation purposes and a Bill creating a Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority. In this year's Budget $9m has been provided for National Parks and Nature Reserves. The Council of Nature Conservation Ministers set up on this Government's initiative will, I hope, help in the development of a national approach to the conservation of our unique fauna and flora. The National Parks and Wildlife Service will also facilitate co-operation with the States in the national nature conservation effort, and the meeting of Australia's obligations under the increasing number of international agreements for the conservation of wildlife to which this Government has become a signatory. Its functions will include education of park rangers and the provision of assistance to other countries in nature conservation matters. 
The Bill makes special provision for agreements with Aboriginal people for the cooperative conservation management of their land and its wildlife resources. In land vested in the Service, regulations will be made where necessary to meet the special needs of the Aboriginal people while ensuring that overall wildlife conservation objectives are met. In all cases, there will be consultation with the Aboriginal people and proper consideration of their traditions and culture which have so much to contribute to the heritage of this nation. The Government has dealt positively with the question of minerals in national parks. Where minerals occur in a park or reserve, no operations for their recovery may take place except in accordance with a plan of management approved by both Houses of the Parliament. We believe that Parliament itself should make the vital decision on whether operations for the recovery of minerals should take place in a park or reserve and then only in the genuine interests of the nation. Under the Bill, the Service will be able to manage parks for a variety of purposes in addition to nature conservation, such as tourism, recreation, and for scientific investigation. 
With the passage of this legislation, the Government will move quickly for the proclamation of a number of outstanding areas. Foremost is the proposed Kakadu National Park, in the Northern Territory, which the then Minister for the Interior in July 1970 referred to in the following terms:   . . the area's ingredients of scenic grandeur, interesting and unique flora and fauna and cultural and historical elements, if blended and managed successfully, could produce a great park for public interest and enjoyment as well as making a major contribution to conservation. 
We agree with this assessment, and will be proud to proclaim this long-promised, world class, national park. We will also proclaim Gudgenby National Park in the Australian Capital Territory, promised but not established by a former government. 
In commending this Bill to honourable senators, I would like to stress that it is high time that this Parliament enacted legislation on behalf of all Australians to permit the Australian Government to play its proper part in the conservation of our natural heritage, which indeed is part of a world heritage becoming increasingly precious to mankind. I regard this Bill as a significant part of this Government's response to the growing awareness of our fragile world. It exemplifies our willing acceptance of the obligation to set the example required of a national Government. 
In conclusion I would like to say that this action accords with the sentiments of the Labor Party platform where it is recognised that ' man lives within and depends upon a complex natural system which must be protected and managed as a whole '. The platform further states: 
The advance of agricultural pursuits and the expansion of cities and their industries have been the cause of much of the natural habitat of Australia's native flora and fauna being severely reduced and in some cases lost completely. Our natural heritage should be fostered and our natural landscapes protected for the sake of social, cultural, educational and scientific purposes as well as for Australia 's future tourist potential. 
To achieve this protection the Australian Labor Party in its platform has pledged to 'conserve for future generations adequate samples of Australia's unique flora and fauna by the development of a comprehensive system of national parks, nature and recreation reserves'. This Bill is a vital first step and will be complemented by further legislation. This will deal with important aspects of environmental concern, in addition to nature conservation, aimed at halting man's unthinking degradation of the total environment, the genesis of life on this planet.  Mr Deputy President,  I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Carrick)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 

 Mr Deputy President, I seek leave to have my second reading speech incorporated in Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The speech read as follows)- 
This Bill is concerned with the provision of grants to the States over the financial years 1974-75 and 1975-76 as an interim program of financial assistance for soil conservation. The Australian Government is seeking to protect those natural resources upon which the nation's well being is founded, in the interests of present and future generations. In particular, this Bill gives tangible expression to the importance which the Government places upon the preservation of the nation's soil resources. This subject first attracted significant Federal attention in February 1 97 1 when the Australian Agricultural Council received a report from its Standing Committee on Soil Conservation, entitled 'The Study of Community Benefits of and Finance for Soil Conservation'. The recommendations of this report provided a factual basis for the States to request financial assistance for their soil conservation programs. 
The matter was raised at the Premiers' conference in 1 972. However, the Government of the day preferred not to make a decision, and instead referred the question to the Interdepartmental Committee of Australian Government officers. The Interdepartmental Committee reported in July this year, after having discussions with representatives of the State soil conservation organisations, and after having examined the report of the Standing Committee. The Interdepartmental Committee agreed that soil conservation activity should be considerably increased above present levels and that it would be appropriate for the Australian Government to provide financial assistance for this purpose. 
The Government has now decided in principle to assist the States with a long term program of soil conservation. At the same time it has recognised that there is an urgent need for a collaborative, nation-wide study of soil conservation in the context of land management, involving the State and Australian governments, with a view to providing a sound basis for a long term accelerated soil conservation program. This Bill provides for an interim program of financial assistance for the States to step up their soil conservation activities over the duration of the proposed joint study, in preparation for a long-term program. Participation of the States in the proposed study will be a pre-condition for the provision of financial assistance in the interim program. Agreement to participate in the study has been received from all States except New South Wales. The Bill has been amended in the House of Representatives to clarify its objectives and, to this end, during the debate the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  quoted from a letter from the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to the Premiers which elaborated the conditions of the grants as mentioned in Clause 4 (5) of the Bill. The relevant section of the letter reads: 
The main condition associated with the allocation of these funds is that the State and Australian Governments should collaborate in a study program to be completed by 30 June 1976 to establish a basis for a long-term national program of soil conservation in the context of an integrated approach to land management.  Major components  in the study program will be: 
The development of a national approach to land resources survey and evaluation. 
The drawing up of a co-ordinated research program aimed at meeting the most urgent needs associated with soil conservation. 
Study of legal, administrative, financial and land tenure systems associated with soil conservation and land management, including the matter of cost allocation and reimbursement in relation to works on private property. 
Requirements for the recruitment and training of all categories of staff. 
Integration with other areas of Government policy including rural reconstruction, conservation and flood  mitigration 
Other conditions are that your Government will not reduce its planned level of expenditure on soil conservation unci that funds for the interim program will not be made available for works on private property unless the landholder undertakes responsibility for complementary land management activities. In accordance with its current practice, the Australian Government also reserves the right to consider the environmental implications of projects prior to agreeing to provide funds for those projects. 
The Australian Government recognises that gearing up for a major long term program of soil conservation will take time. For this reason it regards the interim program as essential so that the results of the joint study can be applied to this most urgent problem without delay. 
While the Australian Government's proposed contribution to each State in this first instance is small in relation to the magnitude of the work which is urgently required, it is a significant first step in dealing with this national problem. With the completion of this essential first program, the Government will then assess its responsibilities in the implementation of a national plan to protect and restore Australia's soil resources- which is perhaps, along with water, the most vital of all our natural resources. The sums to be made available were carefully determined after discussions with State officers and examination of the available human and technical resources. The total Australian Government finance to be made available to the States under this program is $0.5m to June 1975 and $2.5m to June 1976. These funds will supplement the provisions for soil conservation already committed or foreshadowed by the States for this period. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Carrick)  adjourned. 
in reply- I was told before the debate started this evening that it would be very brief, that  Senator Carrick  would say a few words on the subject, that the Bill would not be opposed by the Opposition and would go through without delay. I must confess that I had a rather uneasy feeling about the matter from the very start before I came into the chamber. It was only as the debate progressed that I realised what gave me this sense of diquiet. Lurking in the back of my mind were memories of the Chowilla and Dartmouth debate- an issue which has riven Australian society. Few other issues since 1788 have divided this country into such factions. There seems to be a sort of romantic quality about the River Murray that brings out the passions of those who frequent its banks. This has certainly been illustrated this evening. I would not wish to dwell on the matter because  Senator Carrick  has complimented the Government,  Senator Davidson  appears to agree with the Government,  Senator Laucke  was casting strictures in various directions but I took it they were not in mine - 
I am looking forward to that with eager anticipation. It would be nice to go back to the Dartmouth-Chowilla debates. They had a certain soothing feeling for those of us who did not come from that part of the country.  Senator Laucke,  I think, has told us we should keep politics out of water. I gather that was his message to the chamber this evening, but it was a little difficult after hearing the exchanges between  Senator Hall  and  Senator McLaren.  The only issues that have been raised to which I feel I need reply- the others referred to the South Australian Government, for which I am not responsible, and to past causes which have already been fought and won or lost- were matters which were raised by  Senator Hall.  He asked that there should not be any change in the River Murray Commission. There is no intention that there should be any change in that Commission. No change is proposed in this Bill, nor has it been suggested, so far as I know, by anybody at all. So if  Senator Hall,  who looks very worried at the moment, is seriously concerned about this I should like to allay his fears; he really has nothing to worry about. 
He also offered us a few other apercus during the course of his remarks on the subject. He said that the Australian Labor Party was the most conservative and reactionary Party in Australia. The only 2 things I would say about that is that it is an interesting departure to be outflanked from the left. Generally people have been telling me to go back to either Moscow or Peking, so to be outflanked from the left in this way by  Senator Hall  is a new experience. The other thing I would say about this is that if the Australian Labor Party is the most reactionary and conservative Party in Australia it must be a most reactionary and conservative Party indeed.  Senator Hall  said that the Australian Labor Party was unable to match 'the moving scene in front of it'. The moving scene in front of it at the time I was looking seemed very passive indeed. I must say again that if I could not match the moving scene I was looking at at the time when he made these observations to me then I must be totally paralysed. All I would say on this matter in conclusion is that I am glad that, despite the sharp exchanges that have occurred- reminiscent of earlier days gone by- there is so much unanimity on this measure. I think that the Opposition has - 
Still waters indeed do run deep but they do not run very silently. It is to be noted that this important legislation is the product of an Australian Labor Party government. I am glad to see that for once the members of the Opposition are following a constructive course of rallying behind the Government and not pursuing their usual obstructive role. It is quite a red letter day in that sense although I suppose that, in view of what  Senator Hall  has said, it would be rather surprising for me to be using the word 'red'. I thank the Opposition for its cooperation in the passage of the Bill, although in future I would suggest that when Opposition senators are supporting a Bill it might be better if they were to put in writing any other remarks they wished to make. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
If I may say so, without being in any way offensive to anyone,  Senator Sheil  I find a very puzzling figure. When one speaks to him outside the Senate he is a very amiable fellow indeed. But once he enters the Senate chamber he seems immediately to subscribe to a most extravagant conspiracy theory of history. He sees dangers lurking where none have otherwise perceived them. In fact he told us tonight in his own, I would say, inimitable phraseology that the fiery fangs of the Federal Government have brought the nation to its financial knees. What he is telling us in order to establish this point about the fiery fangs of the Federal Government bringing the nation to its financial knees is that the Federal Government has decided to pay quite substantial subsidies to religious and charitable nursing homes. In the past- I think this is where  Senator Sheil  's conspiracy theory comes in- he has detected a conspiracy. In the past there have been the extreme left wing parties like the Australian Labor Party. Here he differs with  Senator Hall  who told us earlier that we were the most conservative and reactionary Party in Australia.  Senator Sheil  cannot go along with that; he can see only our fiery fangs.  Senator Sheil  is of the opinion that there is a sinister plot and that instead of deliberately setting out to persecute the religious and charitable organisations, we are much more subtle and sinister- that what we do is to pay substantial sums of money to religious and charitable institutions in order to conduct their nursing homes and this shows how much opposed we are to religious and charitable nursing homes. Apparently the way we should show our support of religious and charitable institutions would be to pay them no money at all. The less one gives them, on  Senator Sheil  's doctrine, the more one shows one's sympathy for religious and charitable institutions. 
I do not know whether he puts this view forward with regard to Government aid to private schools. Does he also argue that by giving state aid to church schools we are setting out to subvert the churches, because it would seem to me that if one is subverting religious and charitable institutions which conduct nursing homes by paying them these substantial sums of money, the same would apply to the schools which are conducted by religious and, if not charitable, then non-profit making organisations? However, that is what he tells us. He tells us also that we are interfering with the nursing homes industry. I must say that I was a little startled to hear, even from  Senator Sheil,  that the provision of nursing homes for sick and incapacitated people is an industry. I would have thought that this was a public service, and was recognised by all people as being a public service, and hardly an industry. I can only infer from this that  Senator Sheil  would have an ideological disagreement with religious and charitable institutions which do not conduct their nursing homes as an industry but conduct them not to make a profit. Apparently  Senator Sheil  would tell us that nursing homes should be an industry, a profit-making industry, and should be asking the maximum amount that the market will allow them to ask in order to extract as much as they can from the unfortunate people who have to live in them and from the relatives and friends of those unfortunate people who have to look after them. 
We repudiate that proposition. We do not believe that nursing homes should be an industry. We believe that they are a social service which ought to be provided by the community to the people of Australia. We do not say that they ought to be provided solely by the State or solely by the Federal Government with or without fiery fangs. We say that if religious and charitable institutions are to provide those services to the sick, incapacitated and aged people of Australia they should be supported in doing so by the Federal Government and this is what we are proposing to do by the Bills which are before the Senate tonight. 
It will be entirely open and entirely optional for the religious and charitable institutions to take the aid which is provided by the Bills. It is not in any way mandatory upon them to take it. It is entirely optional. If  Senator Sheil  is able to convince any religious or charitable institution that it should not offer competition to the private entrepreneurs in the nursing homes industry, that it should fear the fiery fangs of the Federal Government which has brought this country, as he puts it, to its financial knees and if he is able to convince it of these dire threats then it does not need to accept this assistance which is being offered to it by the Federal Government. It is entirely up to the institutions whether they take it or leave it. The Government does not believe that there are many religious and charitable institutions which would be so silly as to reject the assistance which is being offered to them by the Government. 
With regard to the position of private nursing homes about which  Senator Sheil  is so agitated, I am informed that there has been a decline in the number of approved beds operated by private gain entrepreneurs over the past financial year. However, this decline has been covered by an increase in State and voluntary non-profit homes, the latter being the sort of homes which are being assisted by the Bill we are discussing, resulting in a net gain of some 1,100 nursing home beds throughout Australia in 1 973-74. 
There are a number of factors involved in the decline of nursing home beds in the private sector of the nursing homes industry, as  Senator Sheil  would call it. In Queensland, the main reason has been the closing down of premises which have been the subject of adverse fire reports. In other cases, closure has largely been due to the dissatisfaction of individual proprietors with their profit margins- the growth of which has been limited by the controls imposed over the fees charged by the proprietors. I think that at this stage I should remind honourable senators that the supervision of fees was introduced, not by this Government, but by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government, in amendments to the National Health Act in 1972. We did not introduce these restrictions. They were introduced by the previous Federal Government which felt so embarrassed by the private nursing homes that they had to take some action to regulate their fees. 
This Government, however, does recognise the role of the private gains sector in the nursing homes industry, in that it does provide care and accommodation for some sick aged people. The Government has no intention of forcing the closure of private profit nursing homes which are operating satisfactorily and which are fulfilling a need in the community by providing a good standard of nursing care and treatment for our aged people. We do not believe they are entitled- as they are in the industry for the purpose of making a profit- to the same sort of financial assistance that we are giving to religious and charitable institutions which are conducting nursing homes without any thought of private profit by way of service to the public. 
Possibly it is in the spirit of Christmas, or maybe it is because of the fact that the title of the Bill- The Homeless Persons Assistance Billaroused some sympathetic spark in the breasts of honourable senators, that we are still here when everybody else has gone home. The Opposition spokesman on this matter,  Senator Guilfoyle,  agreed to the passage of the Bill and, in fact, supported it.  Senator Guilfoyle  did raise one small point and that was to the effect that it would be advantageous to provide for a percentage increase in the patient contribution rather than a flat rate fee. The view of the Government is that this would impose intolerable administrative burdens on the provision of these contributions. For that reason, as  Senator Guilfoyle  suggested herself, this provision has not been introduced. However, the Bill does provide for the patient contributions to be varied by regulations having regard to movements in the pension rates, which is very much the same sort of thing that  Senator Guilfoyle  was talking about without making provision for an actual percentage. The Opposition, I am told, is supporting these Bills. There seems to be some division in the Opposition as I take it that  Senator Sheil  is opposed to the Bills. 
I thought he was opposing them. When one hears the references of  Senator Sheil  to the fiery fangs of the Government, it sounds as though he is opposing the legislation. But I am told he is not opposing it. I can only say that if that is support, it is the strangest support of which I have heard. But we are prepared to welcome any support. I commend the Bills to the Senate. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Usage of polyvinyl chloride resin in 1974 is expected to be 90,000 to 100,000 tonnes about 80 per cent of which will be produced locally. 
Vinyl chloride monomer was first introduced in Australia in 1949. 
Legislative responsibility for the administrative control of vinyl chloride as an atmospheric contaminant outside the Territories rests with the State Governments. There is no legislation in the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory for the control of vinyl chloride as a contaminant. 
The National Health and Medical Research Council at its 79th Session on 14-13 November 1974 recommended a ceiling value of SO parts per million and a time weighted average value of 25 parts per million and, wherever practicable, exposure be brought as near as possible to zero concentrations. These levels will be reviewed at 6 monthly intervals. All Health Ministers are advised of Council recommendations. 
-On 31 October 1974,  Senator Sheil  asked me a question relating to statements by the Minister for Social Security that additional money would be allocated to Queensland for health services. At the end of my statement in reply I said that I would refer the question to the Minister for Social Security for an answer. The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable Senator's question: 

 Senator Sheil seems to suffer some confusion on the operation of ' Medibank '. 
The fact is that the Minister for Social Security has pointed out that there would be a substantial allocation of additional money to the Queensland public hospitals system once the universal health insurance program was in operation: Senate Opposition has delayed the introduction of the program. The  Senator may  have forgotten that he was one of the speakers who opposed the introduction of the 'Medibank 'program as recently as the Joint Sitting of the House of Parliament last July. The Opposition was, of course, unsuccessful and it is expected that the 'Medibank' program of universal health insurance will be operating from 1 July 1973. Expenditure by the Queensland Government in respect of the running costs of public hospitals will be reduced by an estimated $30m- $40m in the first year of operation of the Program by virtue of the fact that the Australian Government will meet 50 per cent of hospital operating costs. The impact of the Government's initiative will be more apparent in future years in view of steeply rising costs in this vital area of health care delivery. 
Finance for Semi-government and Local Government Bodies 
We regard this provision as being necessary for the successful carrying out of the purposes of the Bill and will not accede to the amendment proposed by  Senator Carrick. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report adopted. 
 This amendment, of course, is much more satisfactory from the Government's point of view. The Government is primarily concerned about the territories, particularly the Northern Territory, so far as this Bill is concerned, although we are mindful of the sort of matter raised by  Senator Mulvihill.  We would prefer the amendment not to be passed and we shall vote against it. 
Amendment agreed to. 
in reply- I do not want to prolong this debate. I am pleased that the Opposition supports the Bill. As  Senator Carrick  has said, it is an important Bill. The matter of soil conservation is of tremendous importance to Australia, which is still primarily an agricultural and pastoral country, and the purposes of the Bill are to see that we preserve this great natural asset of the Australian people. I welcome the support of the Opposition and trust that the Bill will have a speedy passage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
For reasons that I think have been dealt with already in debate both here and in another place, the Government is not prepared to accept this amendment. We believe that legislation of this sort should have primacy over any legislation relating to mining, such as the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act. The amendment is not acceptable to the Government. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator Durack's amendment)  be added. 
Another Bill provides that environmental impact studies should be made in any case. In fact, the amendment is quite unnecessary. But a certain question of principle is involved in that we do not wish to establish the precedent of Bills making provision for environmental impact statements when it is intended that in any event a proposed Act will provide that this requirement should apply. Not only is the amendment unnecessary, but it could give rise to the idea that there were certain Acts of Parliament to which this requirement did not apply, whereas in fact it will. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 8 and 9- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
The amendment is not acceptable to the Government. We do not have any intention of intervening in parks which have been established by States. We believe that the manner in which the amendment is worded will place an undue restriction on the normal functioning of the national Government. Therefore we oppose the amendment. 
The Government will accept this amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No systems for comprehensive reporting of cases exist. Experience with notification of infectious disease suggests that if the syndrome were to be made notifiable there would be under-reporting to such an extent that few sufferers would benefit. One feasible alternative might be to adapt medical record linkage systems, once established, to alert the authorities to cases of repeated injury to the same child or to siblings. All cases would then be identifiable,' however, the medico-legal problems inherent in this proposal have yet to be overcome. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: (1)I refer the honourable member to my reply to Question on Notice No. 1 79. 
There are approximately two cases per year in the Australian Capital Territory. In the Northern Territory the only information available is from Darwin Hospital where there have been three proven and three suspected cases in the last five years. 
3 ) It is probable that there are unsuspected cases. 
Battered Children (QuestionNo. 178) 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Cases have been referred by general practitioners, hospitals, infant welfare sisters, social workers, and police. However the detailed information sought is not available. 
I have not told anybody that there was a shortage of funds. I do not know whether anybody in my Department has told anybody that. To the best of my knowledge I have received no complaints. I do not know whether anyone in my Department has received any complaints. As apparently  Senator DrakeBrockman  is aware of somebody who does have some complaints, I will make inquiries as to what has happened about this. As far as I know there is no shortage of funds which would be needed to pay these specialists. I will find out and, when I have an answer, I will let  Senator DrakeBrockman  know. 
-The policy of the Government is to make provision for casualty sections in the repatriation general hospitals when they are in areas where there are populations not served by other general hospitals. In fact already in the Concord Repatriation General Hospital in a southern suburb of Sydney a casualty section has been provided which is performing a lot of useful work for people who live in that area. We are at the moment examining the position of the Greenslopes Repatriation General Hospital and it is hoped that in the fairly near future we will also have a casualty section operating in that hospital. 
in reply- I think it is very fitting that  Senator Mulvihill  should speak on legislation of this nature because he was probably one of the earliest members of Parliament in Australia, if not the earliest, to be consistently advocating the cause of conservation and the cause of national parks. He did it for many years before it became fashionable, before it became trendy, before many people had even given the slightest consideration to the matter. I can well remember that there was a time when a lot of people used to make jokes about  Senator Mulvihill  bringing up matters relating to the red kangaroo. It has now become quite common for everybody to pay at least Up service to the principles of nature conservation in which  Senator Mulvihill  played an early role, in fact the earliest role I think of us all in this Parliament, with his advocacy from the very first day that he became a member of the Senate. 
The Opposition is supporting the 2 Bills which are before the Senate, although  Senator Carrick  has told us that he will be moving some amendments. We had a quite long discussion last night on the amendments. I do not want to go into them at this stage because they will be dealt with in Committee, albeit briefly, I trust. Some of the amendments tend to delimit the constitutional assumptions which are made by the Bills. Whether or not this is a good thing is a debatable point. If we are exceeding our constitutional power in the Bill it would seem that there is another place where that can be dealt with rather than here in the Senate. . 
The only thing I would like to add at this stage is some reference to the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Carrick  to the effect that the Australian Government has in some way bypassed the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory and that the statutory authorities and voluntary environmental and conservation groups in the Territory should be involved in these matters. I have been provided with some information on the Government's role with regard to the Northern Territory which I think refutes the substance of the amendment. The material which has been given to me by the Secretary of the Department of the Environment and Conservation reads as follows: 
On 6 November 1973,  Dr McMichael  and  Dr Boden  -  who are both officers of the Department -  attended a meeting of the Northern Territory Legislative Council in Darwin. The Government leader,  Mr Martin  Finger drew the attention of the Council to the fact that Drs McMichael and Boden were in attendance and available to discuss the proposed National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Bill with Members. 
Only  Mr W.  J. Fisher and  Mrs D.  Lawrie took the opportunity to have discussions with Drs McMichael and Boden. 
Discussions were had on 6 November 1973 and again on 20/21 November 1973 by Drs McMichael and Boden with the Secretary of the Department of the Northern Territory and Members of the Northern Territory Reserves Board. 
On 27 April 1974  Dr McMichael  and  Mr Gare  - 
Also an officer of the Department of the Environment and Conservation -  attended a public seminar on National Parks held in Darwin and answered questions in relation to the proposed legislation. 
Subsequently, despite conflicting legislation introduced in the Northern Territory Legislative Council through the Department of the Northern Territory, the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Bill was prepared as authorised by Cabinet, and two copies were forwarded to the Secretary, Department of the Northern Territory, on 1 9 August 1974. One of these was for the comment of the Northern Territory Reserves Board. The Secretary, Department of the Northern Territory, forwarded his comments on 10 September 1974. Despite a written request to the Department of the Northern Territory on 29 October 1974, no comments from the Reserves Board itself have yet been received, though the Director of the Board did forward his personal comments on 3 September 1974. 
The Department's view is that every effort has been made to consult with those in authority in the Northern Territory in this matter. Difficulties have been created by persons unwilling to see the Australian Government set an example in the management of national parks and wildlife in relation to areas and problems of national significance. An example of the product of such attitudes is the Northern Territory National Parks Ordinance 1974, a most defective piece of legislation, to which the Governor-General's assent has so far been withheld. 
Cabinet's approval of 17 September 1973 recognised the need to manage nationally significant areas in the Northern Territory, (e.g., Simpsons Gap, Katherine Gorge, Finke River and Kakadu National Parks) through an Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service, and to place wildlife management in the Northern Territory under such a body also. 
There is nothing in Cabinet's decision, nor in the Bill at present before Parliament, to prevent continued management of parks and reserves not of national significance by the Northern Territory Reserves Board or any other appropriate Northern Territory agency. 
Northern Territory involvement in management decisions regarding wildlife and declared areas under control of the Service will be through effective delegation from the Director of National Parks and Wildlife to properly trained professional staff resident in the Territory, who will consult with local interests. In addition, arrangements can be made for a Northern Territory advisory committee on national parks and wildlife to advise the Minister. The director could be a member of such a Committee, however, it should be recalled that Cabinet specifically decided against a statutory Advisory Committee or Council. 
A telegram was sent by  Dr Goff  Letts, the majority leader in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, to the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  to which the Minister has replied. I think that the matters which have been raised in the amendment moved by  Senator Carrick  are probably dealt with quite adequately in those telegrams in addition to the information which I have just given to the Senate. The telegram from  Dr Letts  was in fact addressed to  Mr Whitlam  and was dated 18 November.  His  telegram reads: 
National Parks and Wildlife Bill due further consideration this week will have greatest impact Northern Territory stop There have been no public hearing or proper consultations as suggested in first principle of stated functions of Dept Environment and Conservation stop I have prepared statement for first meeting Legislative Assembly this week stop Not opposed certain concepts in Bill e.g. greater national coordination facilities for training consolidation existing statutes and organisations but must insist on local participation in control and management wildlife and national park stop Without any consultation the Canberra Bill will supersede local legislation stop Minor amendments not enough stop Recommend defer or withdraw Bill until (a) Joint Parliamentary Committee on N.T. tables report (b) Government considers executive role newly elected Assembly after studying above report (c) Ministers for Northern Territory and Environment have discussions Assembly representatives (d) Northern Territory public properly consulted stop Further passage Bill this week would show contempt Territory people and new Assembly. 
That is a very strong telegram from  Dr Letts  particularly in view of the circumstances which were outlined in the memorandum from the Secretary of the Department of Environment and Conservation.  Dr Cass  replied in a telegram of 20 November last to  Dr Letts  as follows: 
Appreciate your interest and concern National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Bill stop. 
Legislation has been drafted after attendance of senior officers at Legislative Council meeting of 6 November 1973, and subsequent discussions with Northern Territory Reserves Board and officers of Department of Northern Territory stop. 
Bill has been prepared to empower Australian Government to set national example by management of nationally significant areas and wildlife resources, in accordance with declared Government policy and with recommendations of House of Representatives Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation stop. 
No objection to areas of local significance being managed by an appropriate Northern Territory agency stop I have always envisaged also that a local advisory body would advise on national park and wildlife matters in Northern Territory stop. 
Government's legislative program must proceed stop Please be assured of Northern Territory interests being considered at all times in matters of environment and conservation. 
I believe that these telegrams and the facts which I have presented to the Senate make completely unnecessary the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Carrick.  I trust that the amendment will be rejected and in any event that the Bill will rapidly proceed through its second reading stage. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator Carrick's amendment)  be added. 
Although I realise that we do not want to take too long over these matters, there are a couple of observations that I would like to make. The Government would be quite happy to include the word 'Governor-General' instead of the words 'Minister of State for Minerals and Energy', were that all that the amendment proposes. In any event, if one reads the whole Bill, one finds that it is not just a question of either the Minister or the Cabinet dealing with this matter, but under the plan of management the matter has to be approved by the Parliament. Clause 1 1 (6) (b) states that a plan of mangement shall set out a detailed description of what is being done and shall include: a detailed description of any operations for the recovery of minerals, or excavation, works or other operations, that may be carried on, in the park or reserve. 
-There would need to be Australian participation of some sort. I am not quite sure what the word 'co-operation' means in this sense, but it certainly does not mean that it has to be an Australian Government instrumentality or the Australian Government itself. It could be a private entrepreneur in co-operation with the Australian Government. We believe that if there is to be rnining in areas where there is a national park, and clearly a national asset is in some way being interfered with by the mining operations, it is appropriate in those circumstances that the Australian Government should at least be acting in co-operation with whoever is carrying on that mining. For that reason we do not propose to accept the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Durack. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 11 to 18- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
I am glad that this has been done. I think all honourable senators know what will be the outcome of a subsequent vote, but the Government is not prepared to accept the amendment as amended. I must confess I am pleased to see the reliance of  Senator Carrick  upon the Trade Practices Act. It is not an Act which I have known in the past to arouse the same enthusiasm from him and I must confess that at this late stage it does not have quite the same appeal to me as it did once. A remarkable sort of double conversion has been going on in the Senate. With due deference to the draftsmen- no doubt the learned draftsmen, as they ail are- who prepared the Trade Practices Act, I am still not sure what is being said here or what is proposed by the amendment. I am a little nonplussed in trying to work out what is supposed to happen when it is found that conflicting laws have been made on the same subject by the Australian Parliament and a State parliament. I really do not know. I do not quite follow it. In any event, I can see that the amendment is going to be passed. No doubt we will all be much wiser, and probably also sadder if things keep on going in the way in which they have been going, when we reassemble next year and are perhaps able to deal with the matter in a more informed manner. The Government rejects the amendment. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 20 to 68- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 69 (International agreements). 
The high sign, as I think it is called, has already been given to me by one of my colleagues. So I do not think that there is any point in pursuing this matter very far. I can see the problems which have been raised by  Senator Carrick.  The Government will not accept the amendment. No doubt, in view of the sign that has been made to me, this matter will be going again to the House of Representatives. It is possible that it will be dealt with there in a manner which is more satisfactory to the Opposition and to others including, I have to confess, myself who have certain misgivings about the present wording of the relevant clause. 
Clause negatived. 
Clause 70 agreed to. 
 I and other people have looked carefully at this paragraph and the proposed amendment which I discussed at some length last night with  Senator Carrick.  However, it seems to us that it is not practicable to amend it. First of all we would say: Yes, this is so; it may be necessary for the preservation of wildlife and the marine national park in the Great Barrier Reef, for example, to prohibit various craft travelling through it, particularly if the way in which they travel is damaging to the Reef and to the wildlife. 

 - Mr Temporary Chairman, there were 2 proposed amendments which had been circulated in the name of  Senator Carrick.  I have had discussions with him and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  concerning these matters. I have also had discussions with the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy).  It is the view of the Government with which I think Senators Withers and Carrick concur, that it would be unfortunate to have the passage of the whole Bill delayed in order to deal with these matters which do not go to the heart of the Bill itself but are largely machinery matters. I now give the undertaking on the part of the Government that as soon as Parliament resumes in the New Year we will introduce an amending Bill in order to carry out the effect of the amendments which were proposed by  Senator Carrick.  I further undertake that in the meantime no action will be taken in accord with the words within the clauses of the Bill which would have been deleted by the 2 amendments which would have been moved by  Senator Carrick. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The difficulties of recognition and management of this syndrome have been considered by the Child Health Committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council on several occasions since 1968. In 1973 Council recommended that education programs in case detection and management should be prepared for those involved in health education and welfare of young children. There is now ongoing inservice training for these personnel in the Australian Capital Territory; for example, seminars on the subject have been conducted for staff at health centres. 
) This information is not available. 
and (4) Research into whether families at risk can be identified after the birth of the first child is being considered. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Facilities in the Australian Capital Territory are the Welfare Branch of the Department of the Capital Territory, the Mental Health Branch and Child Health Section of A.C.T. Health Services, the A.C.T. Police Department and the Department of Education Counselling Services. Facilities in the Northern Territory are available through the Department of Health. 
These facilities are adequate in terms of present knowledge and resources. However, continuing assessment of sociological problems is deficient. One recent move to relieve this deficiency is the establishment of a social psychiatry research unit at the National University with the support of the NH and MRC. I have also approved support for new training programs in epidemiology, community medicine and occupational health. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Regional Councils for Social Development are not Australian Government bodies and therefore are not bound by legislation such as the Audit Act regarding their expenditure of money. They are, nevertheless, expected to exercise normal financial prudence over their expenditure which should stand up to public scrutiny. In addition, the Councils arc required to comply with the specific conditions attached to the Australian Government grants made to them and these, among other things, are set out in a document titled 'Australian Assistance Plan- Guidelines for Pilot Programme' referred to in my reply to the honourable senator's question No. 316 of 24 0ctober 1974 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
l ) and (2) The details sought are contained in the following table: 
-As soon as the Government became aware of the disaster that had occurred in Darwin as a result of the cyclone we considered what steps should be taken to provide compensation for people who had lost property and also the people who had suffered personal injury or who required compensation as a result of the death of persons on whom they were dependent. There is no clearly established precedent for matters such as this because various different steps have been taken by different governments at different times and in different circumstances. 
My Department did advertise widely throughout Australia that there were available to people who had been living in Darwin at the time and had suffered some damage, forms which they should complete and return to officers of the Department of Repatriation and Compensation. A large number of forms have been returned- I think the number is considerably more than 10 000- from people, most of whom claimed for property damage. Fortunately, as all honourable senators are aware, the death toll and the number of personal injuries, although tragic, were perhaps rather surprisingly low in view of the almost total devastation of the city of Darwin. 
As far as personal injury is concerned, very few of the people who were injured or who were bereaved and lost people on whom they were dependent were covered by any form of insurance. Naturally very few of them would be able to obtain workers' compensation payments- if indeed any of them would be able to obtain such payments- because most, if not all, of those people who were injured or killed were not working at the time of the cyclone. With regard to property damage, one of the matters which have been revealed as a result of the survey undertaken by my Department has been, as probably one would expect, that most people were under-insured. Some were not insured at all. 
A matter of this kind does raise a great many problems- I suppose one could correctly describe them as philosophical problems- as to what attitude one should adopt in such a circumstance. If a single house is burnt down by a small bushfire the person who has lost his house is obviously no worse off than somebody who is one of 10 000 people who have had their houses burned down. I suppose one could ask why one should differentiate because a lot of houses have been burnt down rather than one or two. It has been the attitude of this Government and I think of other governments that the very special circumstances of a national disaster such as that which occurred in Darwin require special treatment. Accordingly, the Government will extend such treatment. 
What we are at present doing is assessing the total amount of property loss, the total amount of personal injury, and the extent to which the property damage and personal injury are covered by insurance. It is not my own view that people who were insured should not be entitled to any benefit at all, provided of course that they were not fully insured and as with people who were would receive more than 100 per cent compensation if they were to be paid something. The Government is looking at a proper formula whereby we can apply whatever moneys are made available by the Government to restore the damage that has been done in Darwin and also to assess the amount of money which we will make available. It still is not completely clear precisely what is the total amount of damage suffered in Darwin. 
If I may say so in conclusion, what has occurred in Darwin is I think an illustration of the necessity for some form of national insurance or national compensation scheme, without canvassing the one which is embodied in the Bill which is presently before the Senate. Situations such as this occur all the time either in isolated instances or in the case of disasters such as that which occurred in Darwin. Clearly people are not normally adequately covered by their own private insurance. There has to be some comprehensive approach by the Government to the total question of compensation in matters of this kind. In fact the Government is undertaking such an approach at the present time. 

 -As Senator Baume would realise I am not in a position, as the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, to give assurances about what the Minister for Social Security will do, but I can tell the honourable senator what the present position is with regard to persons who have found themselves in the predicament to which he has referred. Upon the arrival from Darwin of evacuees, medical treatment was made available to them from the State authorities and from the hospitals under the jurisdiction of the Department of Repatriation and Compensation, of which there is at least one in each of the State capitals. Further to that, any requests that are made by Darwin evacuees for financial assistance towards private medical expenses not covered by existing insurance or by the pensioner medical service entitlements are considered by the Minister. Evacuees seeking reimbursement for expenses paid or unpaid accounts after any benefits under their existing arrangements are paid are being asked to submit their claims to the Department for consideration on an individual basis. Similar provisions apply in relation to hospital expenses. 
I think that  Senator Baume  's question again raises the same sort of problems to which I was referring earlier. Where an evacuee requires medical attention and has not subscribed to one of the hospital or medical benefit funds I am not quite sure what the moral argument is for saying that that evacuee should be treated in a different way from any other person who finds himself in difficulties and has not been a subscriber to one of these funds. The fact of the matter is that the Minister is considering all of these applications and the things have been done to which 1 referred in the course of the answer. It has been announced that applications should be made to the Minister for Social Security through his Department, and in fact this is being done at present. Beyond that, as Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, I personally cannot go. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1) Interim Regional Councils have not been advised, directly, to notify citizens within a region of their intention to hold a meeting to elect a Regional Council. 
The discussion papers and progress reports have suggested that local residents and welfare consumer groups be encouraged toparticipate in the planning and provision of welfare services under the Australian Assistance Plan. 
Interim Regional Councils have, through their own initiative in striving for strong regional recognition and involvement, advertised widely and have held numerous public meetings. 
In addition staff of the Social Welfare Commission and the Department of Social Security have advocated this action in their consultation with Interim Regional Councils. 
Advertising is essential to the successful provision of opportunities for all citizens to participate in a new program, but in trying to involve wide citizen participation, only certain members of the public are willing and prepared to be involved. 
Regional Councils formed so far enjoy a wide regional and cross-sectional representation of citizens in their area. 
As and example of regional representation achieved following advertisements, meetings and the formation of Regional Councils, I refer you to the Answers to Questions Nos 604 to 637 which appeared in the House of Representatives Hansard of 22, 23, 29, 30 and 3 1 October 1974. 
Yes, a Regional Council would not be acceptable for the purposes of the Australian Assistance Plan, unless its members represented a broad, cross-section of the community. 
Advertising in the areas mentioned was as follows: 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1) In discussion papers and progress reports concerning the Australian Assistance Plan, only indirect mention is made of the necessity to advertise the intention to form an Interim Regional Council. 
As anticipated however, all regional groups have to date advertised their intentions, whether by newspaper, posters, letters, radio, television or public meetings. In particular many smaller public meetings have preceded larger regional meetings in order to acquaint people with the Australian Assistance Plan. 
Advertising in the areas mentioned has been as follows: 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The honourable senator would now be aware that I announced, on 17 October 1974, increases in the levels of nursing home benefits in all States which operated from 1 5 October 1974. In Tasmania, nursing home benefits were increased by $23. 10 a week. 
Pensioner patients accommodated in Tasmanian nursing homes are now eligible to receive from the Australian Government benefits totalling $69.30 a week in the case of ordinary care patients or $90.30 a week in the case of patients who need and receive intensive nursing home care. These amounts are made up of the following componentsordinary nursing care benefits of $24.50 a week plus an additional pensioner benefit of $44.80 a week and, where appropriate, intensive care benefit of $2 1 a week. 
In addition such patients may also receive the single rate of age pension which presently stands at $3 1 .00 a week even when they are married pensioners. Pensioner patients in nursing homes may also qualify for supplementary assistance of $5 a week. 
This means that pensioner patients in Tasmanian nursing homes may therefore receive total Government assistance of $105.30 a week as an ordinary care patient or $126.30 a week as an intensive care patient. 
The provision of health care services and accommodation, including nursing home accommodation, is primarily a Slate Government responsibility. However, apart from nursing home benefits and the indirect assistance provided by means of general revenue grants, the Australian Government makes available, periodically, special forms of financial aid to the States for the provision of nursing horrie accommodation. For instance, the Australian Government has provided financial assistance under the States Grants (Nursing Homes) Act 1969 for the erection of public nursing homes. 
The Australian Government increased nursing home benefits twice in a period of 2 months at an estimated additional annual cost of $40m. This means that in the current financial year expenditure on nursing home benefits will be $ 155.5m, 67 per cent higher than in 1972-73. 
I am glad that  Senator Drake-Brockman  appreciates the urgent need for this legislation and acknowledges that if there were a national compensation scheme the unfortunate people of Darwin- not only of Darwin but of anywhere else, for that matter- who were injured or the relatives of those who lost their lives would be eligible immediately to receive the substantial compensation which is offered at such a cheap rate under the proposed scheme. As  Senator Drake-Brockman  has acknowledged, the Bill is before the Senate Standing Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs, on the motion of an Australian Labor Party senator, my distinguished colleague  Senator Everett,  Q.C., who moved that there be a further inquiry into the matter by the Senate Standing Committee. That inquiry is now being conducted. My Department and I are at present preparing recommendations as to how compensation may be paid to people in Darwin who suffered as a result of the cyclone. Certainly the recommendations which are contained in the report of the National Committee of Inquiry into Compensation and Rehabilitation in Australia will be very largely the basis upon which such compensation will be paid. 
I think it is true to say that if there had not been 23 years of conservative government, and even if there had been 23 years of conservative government, if such conservative governments had shown some of the small elements of enlightenment shown by the conservative governments which were in office in New Zealand during that time, there would have been a national compensation scheme in this country. I hope that  Senator Drake-Brockman  will take early steps to correct the attitudes which have been adopted by the leaders of his Party in delaying in this country for so many years progressive social legislation in a way which would not have been tolerated by their counterparts in New Zealand. 
-Senator Maunsell was good enough yesterday to mention to me that he was going to ask me this question. I have obtained some information from the office of the Minister for Health. Apparently the quarantine station which is at present at Cape Pallarenda is being modernised. It is not proposed that there will be a new station. The modernisation of the quarantine station will lead to the consolidation of the quarantine activities of the Department of Health to about 10 acres of the 140 acres now occupied by the station. The use to which the land which will now become available is to be put is a matter for the Minister for Services and Property to decide. Apparently no firm determination has yet been reached about what will be done with the redundant land. However the Institute of Marine Science, in which I know  Senator Maunsell  is interested, has permission at the moment to occupy some of the area of the present quarantine station and apparently the Institute has some portable buildings on the site. I am afraid that this is all the information I have. If there is anything further that  Senator Maunsell  wishes to know about the matter I would be only too happy to try to find out for him. 
All honourable senators probably have had their interest drawn during recent years to the claims that have been made by various people on behalf of acupuncture. Inquiries have been made by the medical officers of my Department. 
I suppose that there are various ways of giving people the needle. If I were personally selecting an acupuncturist I do not think  Senator Cotton  would be the one I would care to consult. Inquiries have been made by my Department which, as honourable senators are aware, does have responsibility for a number of very large hospitals. As a result of these inquiries, on the recommendations of the medical officers of the Repatriation and Compensation Department it has been decided to use acupuncture to treat veterans who request the use of acupuncture and for whom it is medically recommended. The policy of the Repatriation Commission on the use of acupuncture for repatriation beneficiaries was based on the report which was issued in 1974 by the National Health and Medical Research Council and which followed, as  Senator Baume  has reminded us, a visit by an investigating team which studied the subject in Korea, China, Hong Kong and the United States. 
The recommendations, which have been largely carried through, include the setting up of controlled clinical trials to evaluate the use of acupuncture in 4 separate situations. The first is the alleviation of pain, which seems to be the most notable use of acupuncture, in particular for headache, sciatica, joint pain and postoperative pain. The second is the treatment of narcotic and alcohol withdrawal states. The third is the treatment of deafness. The fourth is dental and obstetric analgesia. There was a further recommendation from the Council that at present the practice of acupuncture should be restricted to registered medical and dental practitioners. It is not the purpose of the Commission to allow people who are not qualified in what, for want of a better term, one could call the orthodox medical science to use acupuncture within the Repatriation Commission hospitals. So far 1 4 applications for treatment have been received. The appropriate details are being recorded so that we can continue to make an evaluation as a result of the work which is being done in this field by my Department. The practice which has been introduced includes the safeguard that if a departmental medical officer considers acupuncture may be harmful in a particular case, the opinion of an appropriate specialist is to be sought. I apologise if my answer seemed to bc rather long but I think this is an important question and that an answer in some detail is required on a matter in which I believe there is quite a lot of public interest. 

 -As Senator Baume knows, there has been quite a lot of controversy about the use to which repatriation general hospitals should be put. On the one hand some people have argued that repatriation hospitals ought to be abolished and that they ought to be incorporated into a general hospital system. They argue that duplication of services seems to be taking place because the 7 repatriation hospitals are dealing with a specified group of people. On the other hand others very strongly argue, as indeed do most of the ex-service organisations, that the repatriation hospitals should retain their separate identity so that there can be a continuation of association between veterans while in hospital. To a certain extent the Repatriation Commission during recent years has tried to extend the availability of services provided by the repatriation hospitals to other people who are not normally recipients of repatriation benefits. This has happened particularly at the Concord Repatriation General Hospital where a casualty section is being set up. 
I am afraid I do not have in my head the precise information that  Senator Baume  is seeking with regard to the payments which are made or may be made by the people who are not repatriation beneficiaries and who are making use of those hospitals. Certainly quite an important principle is involved. I shall obtain a detailed answer to that part of the honourable senator's question as soon as possible and inform the Senate. 
I have not seen Professor Henderson's report. In fact it has not yet been released. There is what purports to be or is alleged to be a partial extract from his report in some of this morning's newspapers. 
-Yes, but I have not seen Professor Henderson's report. All I have seen is a newspaper report which is alleged to be an extract from Professor Henderson's report. Certainly from what I read of it, this did not say that the poor whites were the worst area of poverty in Australia. As I recollect it, what was said in the newspaper I read was that the condition of the poor whites was little better than that of the Aboriginal people. It did not say that their condition was worse than that of the Aboriginal people. The very fact that the Government is persevering with the Henderson report and the very fact that the Government has placed so much emphasis on what the inquiry will reveal, surely shows that we will act on what is reported to us. Beyond that I cannot go. Certainly if a report such as that of the National Inquiry into Poverty were to find that there was a waste of public moneys because of bureaucraticprocedures moneys which ought to be paid in social security benefits- the Government would consider the matter very seriously indeed and, so far as I am concerned, would act to remedy the defects. 

 -Yesterday Senator Maunsell asked me a question concerning buildings that are being erected near Townsville. I have spoken to him subsequently about this matter. In my answer I said that the only health facilities- in this case, a quarantine station, which was the premises referred to- were at Cape Pallarenda and that a new quarantine station was not being erected but some additions were being made to the existing quarantine station. I understand from  Senator Maunsell  that there is some interest in the area as to exactly what is going on in the vicinity of Townsville. He subsequently told me that the area about which he was concerned was not Cape Pallarenda but Cape Cleveland. I am afraid my familiarity with the Townsville area is not as great as perhaps it ought to be. I caused further inquiries to be made of the Department of Health. The information which has been provided to me is that there are no health facilities of any kind, which would include quarantine stations, under construction at Cape Cleveland. The best information which we were able to obtain was that the construction at Cape Cleveland is for the Institute of Marine Science, which falls within the province of the Minister of Science. I am afraid that that is the best I can do for  Senator Maunsell.  It seems to me that the whole matter is shrouded in some mystery. If he wishes to pursue the matter with the Minister for Science, possibly he will be able to obtain some further and better particulars than those I am able to provide to him today. 
A subject which has caused some distress to many of us over past years has been a decline in respect for the United Nations. I am sorry that this view has been reinforced this afternoon by the recently returned observer who seems to have acquired some of the characteristics of a Caribbean potentate in speaking for several hours in great obscurity only to a much smaller audience. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  Order! I do not think that that is a proper reflection on the previous  speaker.  I think you should direct your remarks to the proposed amendment. 
Is 'Caribbean' or potentate ' the offensive word? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- The expression was offensive to me. 
I will withdraw it. The Opposition Parties- at least the Liberal Party and the Country Party- for many years have campaigned on a platform of law and order, none more than  Senator Wright.  I would think that the issues involved in the question we are discussing this afternoon are fundamental to law and order within a democratic society. I do not intend to traverse again the fields which have been so capably dealt with by  Senator Everett, Senator Button  and other members of the Government Party. 
-No, I would not agree. I think that there are 2 fundamental requirements for the functioning of law and order in a democratic society. The first is that the people must have confidence in the integrity of their courts. The second is that they must believe that when they vote at an election to choose their representatives in Parliament they are taking effective action and an action which will retain its effect for the term for which they have voted. Both of these cardinal principles of law and order in a democratic society have been repudiated by honourable senators opposite who have so persistently and vociferously down the years postured in this chamber their adherence to law and order. 
I do not want to talk for more than a few sentences o'n the propriety of the appointment of  Mr Justice  Murphy to the High Court. The matter has been raised by the Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Lewis,  as one of the reasons why he would not follow the convention, the practice, or whatever it may be called, relating to the filling of casual vacancies in the Senate. We would not be having this debate today if it were not for  Mr Lewis.  He raised the question of the propriety of  Mr Justice  Murphy's appointment to the High Court of Australia. We on this side of the chamber did not raise the subject. We are replying to a matter which was raised outside the Parliament by the Premier of a State and which was raised in the Senate by  Senator Scott  who referred to it quite specifically. There are difficulties in appointing judges. Many methods of appointment have been applied in different countries. In some countries judges are elected directly by the people. In some countries they are appointed or nominated by a panel of other judges or jurists or responsible citizens, whatever that may be taken to mean. 
In our system, which we have inherited from the British, we have followed the practice that members of the bench are appointed by the Government. It has been accepted essentially by all those people who participate in the democratic system in this country and in other countries in the Commonwealth that, whatever the political background of the person who is appointed to the bench may have been, once he is appointed to the bench he takes with him all the traditions of that bench to which he has been appointed. That is something which the Australian Labor Party has accepted. We have been most scrupulous - 
1 would like to continue now. I will debate this matter with the honourable senator later. We have been most scrupulous in observing this practice. During this debate or any other debate, including debates on any matters which will come before the High Court, there has not been any reference by Labor senators to the previous political background of  Sir Garfield  Barwick. Senators from the Labor 
Party have not discussed the previous political background of  Sir John  Spicer or any of the other numerous political appointments which have been made by Liberal-Country Party governments in the past, because we have accepted the principle that once a judge is appointed he is an impartial member of that bench. 
Once we commence the course advocated by  Mr Lewis  and by  Senator Scott  of attempting to discredit people who have been appointed to a court, whether it is the High Court or any other court, we undermine that loyalty to those who interpret the laws of this country about which people such as  Senator Wright  have boasted in the past. I do not believe that his speech today warrants so much attention that I ought to be devoting a whole speech to it. He has advocated respect for the courts. He has said that one should not impugn the honour or the integrity of judges. But he could not restrain himself from suggesting, albeit in a hypothetical way, that there could be a circumstance in which a judge would be appointed because he had given advice relating to a matter which later would be dealt with by that court. 
-Whomever the suggestion came from, the point was made by  Senator Wright.  I heard him make it only a few minutes ago. It is the members of the Liberal and Country Parties who are setting out to discredit the courts of this country. Their mean motive is to gain some temporary political advantage. 
The second requirement of law and order in a democracy is that the people should be assured that when they vote at an election their vote has some meaning. Australia has a bicameral parliament. We have a Senate whose members are elected according to a system of proportional representation. We have a House of Representatives whose members are elected on a basis roughly approximating the populations of the electorates which they represent. This system is imperfect. Owing to the actions of the previous Government and the refusal of the Senate to take various steps which the Australian Labor Party wished to take, there is a gross disproportion in the sizes of electorates for the House of Representatives. So already democracy itself is distorted by the composition of the Parliament. Allowing for all that, one can say that in comparison with other countries we have a relatively democratic system. Twice in a little over 2 years the Australian people quite clearly and quite definitely have elected the Australian Labor Party to govern this country for 3 years. This fact has not been accepted by the people who sit opposite or by the people whom they really represent- the people who are opposed to the policies which the Australian Labor Party is trying to implement, with the support of those people who elected it to government. 
One way in which not only the Constitution but also responsible politicians down the years have attempted to retain some meaning in the democratic process is by the convention or practice, call it what you will, that when a senator vacates his seat, for whatever reason, he will be replaced by a member of the political party to which he belonged. It is no use raising pettifogging points about what would happen if an Independent senator vacated his seat or in the case of a senator who changed his political allegiance while he was a senator. These circumstances, admittedly difficult, have not arisen. That is not the circumstance now. There are perfectly clear precedents for the existing situation. 
-He did, but a Liberal was appointed to replace him. 
-That only strengthens the point which I am making. It means that the man who was appointed as his replacement was a member of the party to which  Senator Hannaford  belonged at the time he was elected. There was no issue and no debate on this question in the Parliament. Nobody in the Labor Party objected to a member of the Liberal Party being appointed to replace  Senator Hannaford. 
I did not object because I believe that it would have been most improper for me to have done so. That is why the Australian Labor Party did not. We believed that it would have been most improper to have done so. I can see that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack cannot discern the impropriety that is involved in that. We did not object because we did not believe that it would have been proper to object, and it would not have been proper to object. 
Of course there are difficulties involved in this matter. One of the weaknesses of the system results, as  Senator Wright  in one of his more lucid moments told us, because of section 15 of the Constitution. We do not have a perfect system of replacing retired or deceased senators. Owing to the requirements of the Constitution an election has to be held before the balance of the departing senator's term has been completed by his successor, and this throws the alignment of the Senate out of adjustment. Nonetheless, despite all those difficulties, the convention or the practice- call it what you will- has been an honoured practice. It was honoured last year by the Australian Labor Party Government in Western Australia when  Senator Prowse  resigned from the Senate when an election appeared to be in the offing. The Labor Government in Western Australia appointed to the Senate a man who was here for only a few monthsthe State  President  of the Country Party in Western Australia- something which would in normal circumstances have made it much easier for him to be re-elected and to retain  Senator Prowse  's seat in the Senate. 
Even though it was quite obvious what had happened, never once did the Australian Labor Party Government say: 'There is something funny going on here. Why is he not seeing his whole term out and allowing a new candidate to stand at the election?' The Australian Labor Party Government in Western Australia, without any demur from the Australian Labor Party organisation, without any complaint from any member of the Party in the Parliament, even though it was perfectly obvious what was being done and why it was being done, said that the practice or convention, call it what you will- we certainly treated it as a convention- is that if a senator vacates his seat it is the responsibility of the government of the State which he represents to appoint a member of the same party to replace him.  Mr Tonkin,  who was then the Premier of Western Australia, did that without the slightest hesitation whatsoever. 1 do not believe that it is any use  Senator Wright, Senator Withers, Mr Lewis  or anybody else saying that he is entitled to distort the Constitutionthat is what they are doing- or to distort the nature of democratic government in this country because he strongly disagrees with the policy of the Australian Labor Party and the present Government because it is centralist, communist, socialist or whatever else. The whole point of democracy is that people who have strongly opposing views compete within the electorate and compete within Parliament.  Mr Killen  very admirably has pointed out that if we were to rely on the written letter of the Constitution the whole structure of parliamentary government in Australia would collapse. If someone is going to depart from that practice because he objects, however strongly, to the party to which he is opposed, then he is setting out to destroy democracy in the same way as democracy was destroyed in Germany in 1 933, in Austria in 1 934, in Italy in 1 92 1 and in Greece in the 1 960s. 
Democracy is a very fragile flower. It exists in only some countries. Apart from a handful of countries in Asia and the Caribbean democracy exists only in countries where there is a relatively high standard of living and where there is a relatively high standard of education, and it does not exist in all of them. We have seen, I suppose within the lifetime of everybody in the Senate, democracies destroyed in some of the most advanced western countries- in Germany, Austria and Italy. In only recent years we have seen that happen. It happened in times of economic crisis similar to that through which the world is passing at the present time.  Senator Martin  apparently disagrees but the facts remain that it has been in times of stress and economic tension that democracy is the most vulnerable. It was in similar times of inflation and unemployment that democracy collapsed in those countries in which it did collapse. 
If you are going to depart from the principles which govern a parliamentary democracy and make enough people think that, though they voted in an election and elected a party to govern, that is really meaningless and all sorts of steps can be taken to abort what they have tried to do with that vote, those people who are already dissatisfied because of economic circumstances and do not like the economic system will also have a contempt for the political system. When they talk about the system they will not mean just the economic system; they will mean the political system as well. We saw that happen in France with the constantly changing governments and the shabby manoeuvres that took place throughout the 1930s. That was one of the things that led to the growth of the Communist Party at the expense of democratic socialists and the growth of the fascist organisations which subsequently destroyed their own country and collaborated with the Germans at the expense of the traditional conservatives. The whole of the democratic framework inside that country had been destroyed. That is what I believe is being done. 
If I wanted to have an historical discussion I do not think  Senator Webster  is the person I would choose as my debating partner. That is the sort of thing which is now occurring in Australia. I believe that if the Liberal and Country Parties believe not just in profits but that there ought to be a democraticsystem and that within that democratic system there ought to be law and order, they have a very clear responsibility to join with the Australian Labor Party in seeing that the democratic system is not only preserved but also extended and that law and order are preserved and extended. You do not preserve the democratic system by engaging in shabby tricks and manoeuvres to gain a majority in Parliament to which you were not elected, nor do you gain it by discrediting the judges of the courts of this country who have been appointed in the traditional manner. That is what the Opposition is doing and that is what it would have persisted in doing had it not been for the action of the Government in the Senate. It would have allowed  Mr Lewis  to get away with what he was trying to do, but at last belatedly and shamefacedly it has been dragged into proposing its present amendment. We accept that amendment because we want to get a unanimous resolution of the Senate, but I hope that historians when they look back on the history of this debate will judge the integrity, the honesty and the consistency of those people who have talked so much about democracy and law and order but have done so much to damage and discredit them. 
Naturally I can assure the honourable senator that any promises made by the Government will be honoured. 
In fact, the Government has anticipated nothing. I regret to say that a usually reliable journal was not quite accurate in the report which it gave this morning. The question of compensation for victims of the Darwin cyclone either for loss of property or personal injury is in the process of consideration by Cabinet at the present time. No determination has been made. Once a decision has been made an appropriate announcement will be made. I do not propose- as I am sure  Senator DrakeBrockman  will appreciate- to enter into a discussion on a matter which is still in a rather hypothetical stage. 
I apologise for having to give such an inadequate answer to a question asked with such a nice smile but I am afraid I do not have the slightest idea when the report will be presented. I shall check with the Minister for Social Security and when I have an answer I will inform  Senator Guilfoyle. 
I have seen the reports and I find them not at all startling. I would think that a delay of 1 8 months in settling a claim of this nature would be remarkably short compared with the delays that people usually suffer when they have so-called common law claims for damages against people who may have been guilty of some wrongful act such as negligence which caused an injury. I certainly am well aware of the hardship caused to people who have to wait a long time to receive any settlements. One of the most unfortunate aspects of these delays is what is known as litigation neurosis which makes the physical and mental condition of injured persons even worse than it might be otherwise. It is in order to correct situations such as this that the Government proposed a national compensation scheme which provides immediate, automatic earnings-related compensation to people who are subject to any form of injury without, apart from any other difficulties they may have, extended delays similar to that to which  Senator Davidson  has correctly drawn the attention of the Senate. 
Arrangements have been made by the Department of Repatriation and Compensation for the payment of repatriation pensions into credit union accounts. This is something which has been done only quite recently. The proviso is that they shall be paid only into savings accounts and not into loan accounts, because the law relating to the payment of repatriation benefits does insist that repatriation benefits shall not be paid directly by the Department in the discharge of any debts owed by the beneficiary. The arrangements have been made and it has been possible to have repatriation pensions paid into credit union accounts since 31 December. Any recipient of repatriation benefits who wishes to have his benefits paid into a savings account, as opposed to a loan account, with a credit union may make such arrangements with the relevant officers of the Department. 
I am not sure what kangaroo products there are apart from skins but if there are any there may well be a field for a new industry with which  Senator Sheil  could make us familiar. As the honourable senator probably would be aware, I do not have the information relating to this matter at my fingertips but I will obtain it from the Minister for the Environment and Conservation as soon as possible and let him have the answer. 
I think most honourable senators are aware that  Mr Justice  Toose of the Supreme Court of New South Wales was commissioned by the previous Government to conduct an inquiry into all aspects of the repatriation system. Several extensions of time have been granted to  Mr Justice  Toose in his wideranging inquiries into this matter. So far the report has not been presented. I do not have any idea what  Mr Justice  Toose may recommend. He has been asked to let the Govenment have the report in the near future. I assume that he will do so. I have assured both the Returned Services League and the Australian Services Council, which represents all or nearly all the veterans' organisations other than the RSL, that they will have a full opportunity to examine and discuss any recommendations which  Mr Justice  Toose may make. Certainly if the Government does act on recommendations from  Mr Justice  Toose it would be only after it has had consultation with the ex-service organisations involved. 
I take it that  Senator Bessell  is asking me this question in my capacity as the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. Naturally, the question which he asks is a question relating to policy. However, I shall refer it to the Minister for Social Security and as soon as I have a reply from him I shall let  Senator Bessell  know. 
-Senator Baume was kind enough last night to point out that apparently I had made some geographical miscalculation regarding the position of the Concord Repatriation Hospital in relation to other parts of Sydney. I take it that he finds this important; its importance is rather lost on me. The information which was provided to me was that the Concord Repatriation Hospital was already providing emergency services. I shall check to see whether the information I was given was correct. In any event, the point which I would make and which I thought I had made was that whether in fact these services were already being provided or not, the position was that the Repatriation Commission was in the process of making available services in the repatriation general hospitals, not only at Concord but also at Greenslopes in Brisbane, for the provision of emergency services.  Senator Baume  has raised an interesting but I think somewhat pedantic pair of points, but as they seem to trouble him, I shall inquire into them and let him know the answer in due course. 
-Senator Mulvihill was good enough to let me know that he would be asking a question on this subject. I think we all know that he probably has a keener interest in this matter than most honourable senators have. 
-Senator DrakeBrockman reminds us that we do have a few kangaroos over in Western Australia. Officers of the Department of the Environment and Conservation have visited all States except Queensland in order to discuss this matter with the States. An assessment is being prepared of the total cost of the program which  Senator Mulvihill  mentioned. Particular areas are being selected for the conservation of kangaroos. As is well known, in some areas kangaroos are a danger to the pastoral industry. In other areas they are not such a danger. Clearly there must be some demarcation between the various areas. Another factor is the biological significance of the species of kangaroo found in additional areas. This year's budget for the Department of the Environment and Conservation provides $381,000 for wildlife conservation and ecological research. I think it could be said at this stage that negotiations between  Dr Cass  and his Department and the respective 
States on this matter are progressing satisfactorily. 
-So far, the officers of the Department of the Environment and Conservation, as  Senator Mulvihill  has said, have not visited Queensland. It is hoped that even in that State the same satisfactory arrangements which are progressing in the other five States will be reached. 
-I do not have the details in my mind, although I will be able to obtain them for  Senator Drake-Brockman  and provide them to him quite quickly. The only thing I would say about the general nature of the question is that the Government has a program which envisages the introduction of a national compensation scheme. The National Compensation Bill is at present before the Senate. That is not to say that the Government precludes variations, possibly substantial variations, in the Bill. It is obviously necessary for the Department, if it is to engage in adequate research into the nature of any proposed national compensation scheme, to employ people with experience and competence in that and related fields otherwise what would be done could be quite unsatisfactory. The Department of Repatriation and Compensation, through the Office of the Commissioner for Employees' Compensation, has quite substantial compensation responsibilities, apart from any proposed national compensation scheme. I think the Senate would agree that the Department should have officers who are responsible for compensation. I shall obtain the individual particulars which  Senator Drake-Brockman  is seeking and about which he asked during the sitting of a Senate estimates committee late last year. I will let him have a reply as soon as I have the detailed information available to me. 
Although the matter which  Senator Grimes  raises may seem perhaps unimportant in the general context of the whole economy it is certainly something which is very serious for those people who can be placed in a difficult position on finding that they have been overpaid while receiving only a modest income from their pension. Suddenly they find themselves called upon to make what to them is a very big refund. The Department of Repatriation and Compensation does not have-a policy on this matter. There are Treasury directions relating to the overpayment of any sums which are paid accidentally or inadvertently to people. These procedures are followed by the Department of Repatriation and Compensation, as they have to be, whatever may be the cause of the overpayment. 
When the overpayments have been made by an error in one of the offices within my Department and when they have been received in good faith by the recipient, if no hardship can be established the overpayments are recovered except where they have continued for a period longer than one year. In those cases the amount recovered is the amount which has been overpaid during that previous year. A sort of voluntary statute of limitations is applied on the liability of the recipient to repay the money. Where there are cases of hardship the Department will consider waiver of all or part of the amount which has been overpaid. The full circumstances are then submitted by the Department to the Treasury for the approval of Treasury. I am assured by officers of my Department that they look at these matters sympathetically. They realise that such a circumstance can impose quite a serious burden on someone who suddenly finds that he has been overpaid a small amount every week which, over a year, has accrued into a fairly substantial amount. The procedures which I have just mentioned are followed by the Department when such a circumstance arises. 
-This is clearly something which is within the province of the Minister for Social Security himself. I do not think I am in a position to give an assurance that the Minister will be calling such a conference. I will refer the question to him and obtain an answer as soon as possible. 
-The first question, as I understand it, is whether it is a fact that a woman can find herself pregnant. The answer to that is yes. With regard to the other questions, I am afraid I do not have the answers readily available, but I will refer them to the Minister for Social Security. As soon as he lets me have an answer I shall inform  Senator Sheil. 
-! move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill before the Senate is designed to provide for an orderly transition from the present health insurance scheme to Medibank. The Bill is identical to the Bill rejected by the Senate last August. Honourable senators will be aware that since this Bill was last rejected a Joint Sitting of the House of Representatives and the Senate has been held. During that Sitting the Health Insurance Act and the Health Insurance Commission Act were passed. The Health Insurance Act authorises the payment of medical benefits, the Australian Government to enter into agreements with the States for the provision of hospital services, and the making of health program grants. The Health Insurance Commission Act establishes the administrative structure of Medibank. I should point out that although Medibank can be brought into operation and can function without any further legislation its operation nonetheless can be greatly facilitated, especially in the public interest, by the passage of further ancillary legislation. This Bill is one such piece of legislation. It will facilitate the introduction of the program and ensure adequate protection of all groups in the community during the transitional period. I shall deal with these matters more fully later. 
Medibank has been the subject of a prolonged campaign of deliberate misrepresentation conducted principally by those with vested self interest in the preservation of the present inefficient, inequitable and very costly health insurance scheme. In view of the confusion born of this misrepresentation I shall remind the Senate briefly, as I have done on previous occasions, of the basic facts concerning Medibank. The first and main objective of Medibank is to give every Australian, on identical terms, automatic security against the cost of medical and hospital treatment, at reasonable cost to the community. It is not a program to nationalise medical and hospital services, nor does it reduce any of the freedoms which patients, doctors or hospitals now enjoy. On the contrary, it extends them. Honourable senators will know that the medical plan gives everyone automatic coverage for private practice, fee-for-service, medical treatment and that there will be complete freedom of choice of doctor by patients and of place and type of practice by doctors. Persons with pensioner medical service entitlement will have access to all medical practitioner treatment- specialist as well as general practitioner, procedural and diagnostic services as well as consultations. Currently, of course, these pensioner patients are entitled only to free general practitioner consultations under the pensioner medical service. 
The Health Insurance Act makes special provision for pensioners whose financial means are within specified limits equivalent to the present pensioner medical service entitlement limits. The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  will be writing to all doctors asking them to accept benefits in full settlement for treating these patients. I am hopeful that doctors will cooperate in this arrangement, so that eligible pensioners will receive treatment free of charge. For the rest of the community treatment will also be free where doctors bill Medibank direct. Doctors may follow this course or will be able, if they wish, to bill patients in the traditional way. In this case, where the schedule fee is charged, the medical benefit refund will be such that the patient will have to meet only 1 5 per cent of the fee, up to a maximum amount of $5. 
The hospital arrangements within Medibank provide for the Australian Government to enter into agreements with individual State governments under which the net costs of operating State public hospital systems will be shared equally between the Australian and State governments. In accordance with the agreements, standard bed treatment- that is, public ward- in public hospitals will be free of means test and free of charge to patients who choose this form of treatment. For those choosing private treatment in either a public or a private hospital, there will be a $16 a day subsidy towards hospital bed charges provided under the Health Insurance Act. Where State governments decline to enter into agreements from 1 July 1975 then, until such agreements are entered into, the present National Health Act arrangements will continue so far as hospital benefits are concerned. An effect of this will be that access to public ward treatment will still be subject to whatever charges and means tests the State governments apply and, of course, people in these States will have to continue to pay high hospital insurance contributions although they will be relieved of their medical insurance contributions. 
The provisions of the Bill were outlined in detail when it was introduced in July last year. I shall outline again in brief the main provisions of the Bill. First, the Bill provides for cessation of the payment of Australian Government medical and hospital benefits under the National Health Act. Secondly, it provides for the manner in which existing health insurance organisations will phase out their National Health Act operations. Of course, organisations ceasing operations under the National Health Act will be eligible to seek authorisation to conduct health insurance business under legislation, supervising private health insurance, which will be introduced later in these sittings. 
Thirdly, its provisions recognise that, with the pending introduction of Medibank, some existing medical and hospital funds may have difficulties continuing their financial operations on a viable basis. Some organisations may not be able to meet claims for medical and hospital benefits for services rendered prior to 1 July 1975. Other organisations may decide to cease operating in view of Medibank being introduced and may have difficulty in ensuring the continuance of the protection of their contributors. To meet these situations, clause 19 provides for Medibank to conduct private medical and hospital insurance to the extent necessary to ensure that the interests of contributors are fully protected during this transitional period. Finally, the Bill provides for the Australian Government to assume the liability for nursing home benefits at present paid by.registered hospital benefits funds to insured non-pensioner patients. This will be achieved by extending the additional Australian Government nursing home payment, now applying to pensioners with pensioner medical service entitlement, to all qualified nursing home patients. 
As I have already stated it is not absolutely essential that the Bill before the Senate be passed to enable medical benefits to be paid and the hospital arrangements to be achieved under Medibank, but it is desirable. The failure to pass this Bill would disadvantage some sections of the community and cause personal loss to individuals. Those likely to be affected are patients in nursing homes and contributors to funds which cannot meet their claims. Should the Opposition continue to block the passage of this Bill, then it must hold itself responsible for such personal losses that in some cases could be substantial. Rejection of this Bill will mean that Australians generally will be denied the protection afforded by properly authorised transitional arrangements which are designed to fully safeguard their interests.  Mr President,  I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Guilfoyle)  adjourned. 
I think that most honourable senators and people who have taken any interest in the operation of the Repatriation Act know that over the years a lot of argument has occurred about the famous section 47 of the Act. Section 47 provides that, in the event of there being any doubt in the mind of a tribunal upon the application of a veteran for repatriation benefits, that doubt should be exercised in favour of the applicant. A number of people, particularly applicants and their representatives, have argued in the past that they had some doubt about a matter and therefore, as there is some doubt, they should receive the benefit that they are claiming. This is not really a proper interpretation of section 47. The doubt which is referred to in section 47 is a doubt in the mind of the appropriate tribunal. If the appropriate tribunal does not have a doubt, the fact that somebody else has a doubt, unfortunately for the applicant or his representatives, is not of much assistance to the applicant. 
These tribunals are quite independent. Although I find I am spending a great part of my life in answering letters from various vexed veterans, 1 have no control over these tribunals any more than the Attorney-General would have control over the determinations of the High Court. They are quite independent of me. The only role that the Government plays is to appoint some of the members to the tribunals; other members, of course, are nominated by ex-service organisations. 
One improvement which has taken place recently is that repatriation boards and entitlement appeal tribunals are now giving the reasons for their decisions. This does make a considerable improvement in the position. Any veteran who feels that the decision in his case was not appropriate, particularly a decision by an entitlement appeal tribunal board, can base his appeal now on some substantial grounds or make a fresh application if he does obtain new evidence. This is the most appropriate way that I or this Government can visualise- and I think members of the previous Government would agree that this is the most appropriate way- in which the question can be tackled. As everyone is aware  Mr Justice  Toose is at present inquiring into all aspects of the repatriation system. I do not have any doubt that when his report is tabled there will be some reference made in it to these matters and it may well be that  His  Honour will be recommending some manner in which the existing system can be improved. If so, after consultation with the relevant ex-service organisations the Government may well, subsequent to his report, take some steps to amend the Act. 
-The Department of Repatriation and Compensation does not itself keep records of military activities, whether they be military actions or experiments with mustard gas. These records are kept by the Department of Defence. It is quite clear, and the Department of Repatriation and Compensation accepts the fact, that experiments were carried out with gas during the Second World War. They have been quite well documented in a book which was recently published, called: 'Australia in the War of 1939-1945: The role of Science and Industry'. The Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  said only recently that some 400 Australian servicemen were subject to experiments with mustard gas in the Second World War. I have publicly said that if any veterans claim to be suffering from any disabilities resulting from such experiments they ought to make applications to the relevant  Deputy  Commission for Repatriation in the State or Territory in which they are living. So far some 15 applications have been received by my Department. 
Naturally, in accordance with the Repatriation Act, in order for the veterans who have engaged in these experiments to be eligible to receive benefits they have to be able to establish that they are suffering some present disability. The fact that they may well have suffered anguish, pain or other inconvenience during the period of the experiments does not, unfortunately perhaps, allow them to receive benefits under the Act, but if they can establish that they are suffering from some present disability or disadvantage as a result of those experiments they are entitled to receive repatriation benefits. I am afraid there is very little I can add. There are records apparently in the possession of the Department of Defence. I should imagine that all these matters are verifiable. In fact I have spoken since this matter was first raised to a number of veterans who have told me that they personally took part in these experiments. I do not think that there should be any insurmountable problems in the way of anyone who does suffer as a result of those experiments from obtaining a proper entitlement from the Department of Repatriation and Compensation. 
-Senator Sheil should realise that I am the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security and that there are no actions I could take to correct this alleged and possibly well founded claim of inconsistency. All I can do is refer the matter to the Minister for Social Security and let  Senator Sheil  have a reply with my usual promptness. 
I shall answer the last part of the honourable senator's question first. I do not think that different States will be affected in the provision of medical services of this kind. Unless I have seriously misunderstood the whole matter the effect of the States' refusal to take part in Medibank relates to the hospital provisions and not to the medical provisions. It is proposed that the Medibank service will provide for fee for service optometrical consultation for all citizens in the Australian community. The Government is pleased to be able to say that it has had very great co-operation from the Australian Optometrical Association in dealing with this matter. In fact, the Australian Optometrical Association could well be taken as a model by some other professional organisations with which the Government finds itself compelled to deal. 
I should like to congratulate  Senator Jessop  for the part that he undoubtedly played in assisting the Labor Government 's policy to be adopted by his Association; his attitude is in stark contrast to the actions taken by some of his colleagues in the Australian Medical Association. The benefits which will be available for optometrical services under the Medibank scheme will be the payment by Medibank of 85 per cent of the negotiated fee, with a maximum patient payment of $5 for any service. Patients will be entitled to benefits for 2 separate items- the initial consultation and a subsequent consultation in any 12-month period. Benefits will be available once in any 3 years for the cost of consultations for contact lenses where it is established that the patient's medical condition requires the prescription of contact lenses. The Government is taking steps to ensure that optometrical services will be available to people who are living in isolated communities. 
Amendments which are proposed to be made to the Health Insurance Act will establish an optometrical services committee of inquiry to inquire into the fees and the mode of practice of individual optometrists. Another body which will be established, the optometrical services review tribunal, is proposed for the purpose of considering appeals by optometrists affected by the Minister's determination on the recommendation of a committee of inquiry. The Government believes that optometrical services are probably just as important as any other branch of medical services which are available and it is very pleased to be able to say that through a cooperative effort between the Government and the professional body of optometrists, the Australian Optometrical Association, it has been able to achieve this very satisfactory result. 
This is possibly more appropriately a matter for the Minister for Social Security than the Minister for Health. I am afraid that I just cannot give off hand an answer to the question  Senator Bessell  has asked but I will see that the question is put to the relevant Minister as quickly as possible and that the honourable senator gets an answer without delay. 
I have read a report in this morning's 'Australian Financial Review' concerning  Mr Ilbery,  which was the first knowledge that I had of the allegation that he had been guilty of offences. I was certainly not aware of it before. I have known  Mr Ilbery  for many years. He is the senior partner in a prominent firm of solicitors in Perth with an extensive commercial practice, and I have always found him to be a man of high repute. In my opinion he was a proper person to serve on a board of this kind. 1 think that other legal practitioners from Western Australia who are members of the Senate would certainly confirm that he is highly regarded in Western Australia. I do not know whether the report which was in the 'Australian Financial Review' is correct. I am taking steps to check whether the report is correct. I am very distressed to have read what I have read in this morning's Australian Financial Review'. I repeat that I was not aware before this morning of the matters which are alleged. All I can do is to make inquiries and take whatever action is appropriate in the circumstances. I am very sorry to have learned of this because it has always been my opinion that  Mr Ilbery  was the sort of person who would have been a very proper person to be a member of a board of this kind. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The question of whether regional offices of the Department of Social Security are to assist in the administration of Medibank is at present under consideration. 
Costs involved in the administration of regional offices of the Department of Social Security are included in Division 530 of the Appropriation Act (No. 1 ) 1974-75 which covers normal administration of the Department. 
-Unfortunately I have to confirm this information. There was a fire last night at the Repatriation General Hospital at Macleod in Victoria. Apparently the fire occurred at 10.30 p.m. in an old wooden recreation shed adjoining the main building of the hospital. It occurred shortly after a film had been shown in the recreation shed. It is not yet known how the fire started. A nursing aide employed by the Department of Repatriation and Compensation who was helping to put the fire out had a heart attack during his efforts and subsequently died. This person had a history of some heart trouble, but there can be no doubt that his attack was hastened by his efforts to extinguish the flames. The shed was completely destroyed, but the value of the property which was lost is rather negligible as apparently it was proposed that the shed should be demolished in the near future. The only fortunate thing that I can report in relation to the episode is that none of the patients at the hospital were injured, nor to the best of my knowledge were any other employees of the hospital. I am making further inquiries as to the cause of the fire and whether there are fire hazards in any of the other premises which are under the control of my Department. 
-I should think that the proposition put forward by the Minister for Health would meet with the approval not only of the Royal Australian Nursing Federation and the other relevant unions but of all those concerned with democracy in industry and the participation of those who work within an industry in the management of that industry. It is a fact that the Minister for Health,  Dr Everingham,  has announced that he proposes that two of the part time members of the Australian Capital Territory Health Services Commission will be elected by the employees, one by the nursing employees and the other by employees other than nurses. This is part of the Australian Labor Party policy of securing the participation of people engaged in an industry in the management of their industry. It is something that will bring about much better industrial relations and give a sense of participation to the employees. It will be of great advantage not only to the efficiency of the service but to the spirit and the feeling of the Australian people in regard to the society in which they live. 
I am afraid that I cannot answer that question without referring it to the Minister. I do not know what the details of the matter are or what the appropriation is. I shall refer the question to the Minister and let  Senator Wright  know as soon as I have an answer. 
If I am suffering from jet lag I assure the honourable senator it is solely because of flying between Perth and Canberra and not because of my visitations to any exotic spots. Whether the question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health or to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security is largely immaterial because I happen to have the fortune to represent both these gentlemen. Why  Senator Marriott  should describe the advertising as a racket I do not know. I thought that advertising was an accepted form of activity, within a capitalist society, undertaken by many of the people who make substantial contributions to the Liberal Party. As  Senator Marriott  feels that advertising is a racket, I trust that he will show some consistency and argue within the Liberal Party that it should refrain from having television commercials and newspaper publicity for its campaigns in any future elections. I do not know which advertising agency is being employed, nor do I know whether it is one of those multinationals against which  Senator Marriott  of recent minutes appeared to inveigh with such ferocity- I must say with some surprise to me. I will obtain the information for the honourable senator, as he is interested in exposing the role of multinationals in Australian society, and provide it to him so that he can continue his national campaign against the influence of multinationals in the Australian economy. 
DETENTION OF  t  AUSTRALIAN  CITIZEN BY PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANISATION 
-Yes, I have read - 
I appreciate the point of view that  Senator Coleman  is taking, but at present we are waiting on a report by  Mr Justice  Toose on the whole structure of the repatriation system. I do not think it would be appropriate for me to make recommendations of this type until  His  Honour's report is in our possession, and I understand that that will happen very shortly. If that report does not deal with this matter I shall see that recommendations are made in time for next year's Budget. 
-There are several things I can say about this matter. First of all, as far as  Senator Rae's  talk about the nationalisation of medicine is concerned, 1 can assure him that that is only wishful thinking. It is far from nationalisation that is being proposed. It is merely a means of payment whereby the Government, as the representative of the whole of the people, takes over the liability for the payment of medical costs on behalf of the less affluent members of our community. I do not know about the notice in the Royal Hobart Hospital. I have not been treated there. I do not know who put up the notice in the Royal Hobart Hospital.- The Department of Social Security is not responsible for the administration of the Royal Hobert Hospital. I will pass the honourable senator's question on to the Minister, but I should imagine that the answer would be that it is really none of his business what notices are put up inside the Royal Hobart Hospital. It would seem to be a matter for the management of the Royal Hobart Hospital itself. Whatever notices are put up there, I am afraid there seems to be very little that we can do about it. If the Royal Hobart Hospital says that its employees have some responsibilities in the manner in which they deal with journalists, or whatever it is, one may agree or disagree, but I am afraid there is not much the Minister can do about it. As the matter seems to be agitating  Senator Rae's  mind, I will see that the Minister sees the question. 

 - Senator Young was not listening. I have already corrected  Senator Rae  when he referred to the scheme as a nationalised health scheme, which it is not. Certainly the national health scheme in Britain was introduced by a Labor government- the first Attlee Government. No subsequent government has tried to destroy that scheme. It is a settled part of the way of life in Britain, in the same manner as national health is part of the way of life of virtually all of the countries with which Australia can be compared: all of them have national health schemes.  Senator Young  says that there is a lot of opposition to a national health scheme in Australia. Yes, there is a lot. It was shown in the last election. But it was not enough to defeat the Labor Government. The overwhelming majority of the Australian people showed very clearly on 2 occasions that they are in favour of our national health scheme. We intend to proceed with our national health scheme in accordance with the wishes of the people who put us here to represent them. 
I am sure that  Senator Coleman  and all other honourable senators will be delighted to learn that in fact there is no discrimination between women and men veterans of the Australian forces and that all are entitled to the same benefits in the same circumstances. Possibly it could be argued that there is some discrimination against men insofar as a male dependant of a deceased female veteran does not receive the same benefits, not as high benefits, as a female dependant of a deceased male veteran. Although this in a sense could be regarded as prejudice in favour of the women rather than the men, at the same time one would have to acknowledge that this is a result of the many years of inequality between men and women and the assumption that has always been made that the only breadwinner in a household is a man and not a woman. 
-Do I know how the anomaly originally arose? That is an extraordinary question. I am not quite sure what  Senator Greenwood  has in mind. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to incorporate my second reading speech in Hansard. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to incorporate my second reading speech in Hansard. 
I have seen an advertisement which was inserted in the newspapers by  Mr and Mrs Souten.  I have in front of me a copy which appeared in the 'Australian' newspaper on Saturday, 15 February.  Mr and Mrs Souten  say that they themselves lost their possessions in Darwin during the cyclone and have had some experience in making out claim forms. They offer in the advertisement, for the sum of $3, to provide a guide to people who may have claims against insurance companies or claims for compensation under the scheme which the Australian Government is introducing and which is being administered by my Department. 
I find it quite unnecessary that these people should offer services of this sort. I am not entirely familiar with what practices the insurance companies are following, but I would have thought that they would have provided adequate claim forms to the people who were making applications to them. Regardless of whether they are doing so, the Department of Repatriation and Compensation does not believe that people who have claims to make for compensation from the Australian Government will have any difficulty in completing forms. Officers of the Department are available to help them do this. Unless there are some particular problems with the insurance companies and their claim forms with which I am not familiar, I certainly would not advise anybody to spend $3 on private assistance in completing his claim form for the Department of Repatriation and Compensation as there are officers of my Department who are available to help anybody who has such a claim to make. 
-On 26 February  Senator Bessell  asked without notice a question about the provision of stoma appliances free of charge to all who need them. On Tuesday, 17 September 1974, the then Treasurer in his Budget speech announced: 
. . it is intended to introduce legislation in 1974-75 to authorise the supply, without charge, of stoma appliances and home dialysis equipment and supplies to all persons in the community who need them. 
Honourable senators will recall the mutilation in this chamber of the National Health Bill (No. 2) which contained provisions for the supply of certain classes of surgical and medical aids and appliances. As a result of the treatment given by the Opposition to the National Health Bill (No. 2) it was not possible to proceed - 
I am pleased to see that  Senator Greenwood  wishes to dissociate himself from the Opposition in its approach to the National Health Bill (No. 2). I am glad to see that at least he has the decency to acknowledge the indecency of the action of the Opposition at that time. As a result of the action which was taken by the Opposition we were not able to provide immediately those benefits which we had intended. Fortunately since then the necessary amendment to the National Health Act has been passed and at present the provision of these appliances free of charge to all who need them is being investigated by the Department of Health. It is expected that these investigations will be completed within the next few weeks and it is hoped to have the scheme in operation soon after. 

That the Committee does not insist on the amendment disagreed to by the House of Representatives, agrees to the amendment made by the House of Representatives in place thereof and agrees to the consequential amendment made by the House. 
These amendments have been the subject of some quite considerable informal discussion between the Government and the Opposition. Generally speaking the Government would concede there has been a co-operative attitude displayed by the Opposition and I hope that the Opposition would likewise concede that the Government also has been co-operative in dealing with matters which have been put forward by the Opposition. One of the most controversial issues was that related to the making of regulations subject to treaty obligations which the Australian Government had entered into. I think that we have managed to settle the issues in dispute at least insofar as one can settle such issues in dispute. I do not wish to prolong the business of the chamber at this stage. I would rather save whatever remarks I have until  Senator Carrick  has spoken. I understand he wishes to speak on the part of the Opposition and I will reserve whatever I have to say until he has spoken. 
1 appreciate the contribution made by senators who have spoken on this issue. There is a real problem which is involved not only in this Bill but in all sorts of other areas concerning the treaty and convention making power of the Commonwealth, lt is not something which is found only in this country. Obviously it must apply in all countries which have a parliamentary system. I refer to the executive arm of government having the power to enter into international treaties and conventions. It may well be that some of the terms of these international treaties and conventions are of a nature that may well be open to dispute in the parliament of the country whose government has entered into such treaty or convention. I think one is always faced with the dilemma:. What does one then do? Does one say that all draft treaties and conventions must be ratified by the parliament before the government could commit itself to them? If not, how does one overcome the problem which may arise in the national parliament? 1 am not sure how one overcomes a problem such as this, but certainly we have endeavoured, at least by way of compromise in this issue, to overcome it by saying: 'Whatever we may think about this matter, so far as this Bill is concerned, we are dealing only with certain specified treaties and conventions'. This possibly may be the best course to adopt except in those circumstances where it is completely unavoidable. 

 Senator Mulvihill raised the question of some actions of the State of New South Wales. Power to make regu l ations concerning some of the matters he raised will be given to the national Government as a result of the passage of this Bill but we shall not be acting without consultation with the States in respect of those or similar matters. The Government regards this as a very important Bill. National parks are not a recent invention. People have been establishing parks for many years. In fact in my own city, Perth, it was quite a remarkable achievement of the first Premier of Western Australia, Lord Forrest, that over 80 years ago steps were taken to establish King's Park right in the centre of Perth. At that time it might well have been regarded by many people to be quite unnecessary but the park has performed a quite invaluable function for the people of Perth and the surrounding areas. Only in very recent years has the absolute necessity of conservation become apparent to many people who hitherto were not quite so seized with the idea as were  Senator Mulvihill  and one or two others. This Bill gives expression to this realisation of the necessity for urgent action. The Government is pleased that despite the fact that there were some early objections and early differences with the Opposition they have been overcome. We believe it would be unfortunate if this matter were to become the subject of polemic and invective. I commend the Bill to the Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The three year period to which the  Senator refers  is not a fixed period at the end of which agency contracts will terminate. If it is to the mutual advantage of the parties concerned these contracts will run on or will be renegotiated. 
What is done will be decided by the Government at the relevant dme. The decision will no doubt be influenced by the advice of the Health Insurance Commission, which will report on the efficiency, level of service and cost of agency arrangements. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
A number of Funds including the major ones have indicated they will not accept agency arrangements, but some Funds have agreed to co-operate. Those Funds which will be participating in Medibank have asked that their names not be published until such time as formal agreements have been signed. 
Agency arrangements were offered to funds at the instigation of several funds. Agency arrangements are not essential to the operation of Medibank. I will make details of the development of the Medibank program available at appropriate times as the scheme progresses. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The answer is that some of the present employees will be on the staff of the Health Insurance Commission, others will continue on the staff of their present employers and many others will have left their employers in accordance with the high rate of staff turnover which has always characterised the private health insurance industry. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The establishment of a large nationwide enterprise such as Medibank inevitably involves many problems of an administrative nature. Good progress has been made in handling these problems and I have no reason to believe that any insurmountable difficulties will arise which will delay the introduction of Medibank. 
I think-I am not sure- that I answered a question several days ago about the appropriation for this expenditure. The cost would be included in the general appropriations for the Repatriation Commission. The practice, as I understand it- it is largely administered by the Commission itself rather than by me directly as Minister- has been that although a growing number of facilities are made available to people other than those who are entitled to benefits under the Repatriation Act the cost has been met by the Repatriation Commission itself through its budget and no reimbursement has been sought from some other source. I can, however, see the difficulty that could be involved in the growing use of repatriation hospitals by persons other than people who are entitled to those benefits. I would agree that a rather distorted financial picture would be presented if the percentage of patients being treated in repatriation hospitals were to grow very substantially, whether they were special patients who were brought in, as is the case in a number of repatriation hospitals, because of some special facilities available, or people who were being treated in emergency circumstances such as is the case in the Repatriation General Hospital at Concord. 
I think that the best thing I can do is to ask my officers to discuss this matter with me and possibly at some later time make a rather more detailed statement of the general policy line which we are adopting on this question. I think  Senator Baume  would agree that it can be very wasteful to have repatriation hospitals, some of which have very wide ranges of equipment being used solely by repatriation beneficiaries, who are tending to become an older group of people, particularly if those facilities are not available for emergencies, which was the case until fairly recently. But at the same time I take his point that there can be budgetary problems involved in providing services which perhaps more rationally should be provided by some other hospital service. After I have consulted with my officers I shall make a statement as to what our future policy will be with regard to budgeting for the provision of these services by my Department. 
-Yes. A number of groups in the Murray River area have raised this matter with the Minister for the Environment and Conservation. The principal problem there appears to be the water hyacinth. I must say that I am rather sad that a plant with such a romantic name should be subject to such calumny by the citizens who live around the area in which it grows. The Bureau of Environmental Studies, which is a division of the Department of the Environment and Conservation, is trying to obtain the services of an overseas authority on the subject of the water hyacinth with the intention of carrying out an urgent study of the problem in order to develop some means whereby the growth of the water hyacinth can be controlled. There is general concern in the area about water hyacinth in not only the Murray River but also other river systems. The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, which  Senator James  McClelland could speak on with much more authority than I can, is investigating techniques for the biological control of the weed. It is possible that he will like to add something to what I have said on the subject. I also understand that the New South Wales Department of Agriculture has made available to the Boomi Shire Council, which is responsible for noxious weeds control in the infested area, the sum of $50,000 for immediate spraying of the infestation with environmentally acceptable weedicides.  I  note that  Senator Wriedt,  the Minister for Agriculture, with his knowledge of dried fruits, has some interest in this matter. Spraying has commenced. The Australian Agricultural Council has referred the general question of aquatic weeds to the Australian Water Resources Council of which  Dr Cass  is  Chairman. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Staffs of Health Funds are not being 'encouraged ' to leave the funds and become employees of Medibank. Positions in Medibank are advertised widely and fund applicants along with people from many other walks of life are applying for the positions. 
Whilst the Government is committed to a policy of giving preference of employment to fund personnel, the Commission is co-ordinating with those funds which have agreed to accept agency arrangements so as to minimise disruption to their work. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) Fifth form students who leave school but intend to pursue their studies when the next academic year commences are not eligible for unemployment benefit. The parents of these children are entitled to receive student child endowment. 
Claimants for and recipients of unemployment benefit are required to declare any income received. If the honourable senator has any specific cases in mind of persons receiving unemployment benefit while employed I will be glad to have enquiries made into the matter on receipt of the details. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) In the six months to 31 January 1975 there were two advertisements, both concerning Darwin relief arrangements, which included a photograph of the Minister for Social Security and it has been encouraging to receive so many pleasant letters favourably commenting on the advertisement. The first advertisement appeared in the following publications: the Sydney Morning Herald, Daily Telegraph, The Sun, Daily Mirror, Melbourne Age, Sun News Pictorial, Melbourne Herald, Courier Mail, Brisbane Telegraph, Adelaide Advertiser, Adelaide News, West Australian, Perth Daily News, Hobart Mercury, Launceston Examiner, Burnie Advocate, Newcastle Herald, Newcastle Sun, Canberra Times, The Australian, the Centralian Advocate, all provincial daily newspapers and foreign language papers. The second advertisement appeared in the Sydney Morning Herald, Daily Telegraph, the Sun, Daily Mirror, Melbourne Age, Brisbane Telegraph, Adelaide Advertiser. Adelaide News, Perth Daily News, Hobart Mercury, Newcastle Herald, Newcastle Sun, Sun News Pictorial, Melbourne Herald. Courier Mail, West Australian, Launceston Examiner, Canberra Times, the Burnie Advocate and all provincial daily newspapers. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
39 Regional and District Offices have been set up since December 1972. 
The locations are: 
Costs: 
Renting and equipping- $630, 1 63 Employing stafF-$ 1,22 1,979. 
The offices have been financed from appropriation items administered by: 
Department of Social Security: 530. 1. 01 Salaries and allowances 530.1.02 Overtime 530.2.02 Office requisites and equipment, stationery and printing 530.2.03 Postage, telegrams and telephone services 530.2.04 Office services 530.2.09 Publicity 
Department of Housing and Construction: 290. 1 . 22 Furniture and Fittings- Department of Social Security 292.1.22 Repairs and Maintenance- Department of Services and Property 292. 1.23 Repairs and Maintenance- Department of Social Security 
Department of Services and Property: 523. 1 . 23 Rent- Department of Social Security 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) and (2) I do not know. 
No. 
-Yes, I have given consideration to this matter. Officers of my Department have been working on it. It does not appear that the repatriation hospitals are particularly well suited to providing facilities for injured or sick children. I am informed that the Camperdown and Prince Henry hospitals in New South Wales and the Royal Children 's and Fairfield hospitals in Victoria are admirably suited for this purpose and are being used. If there is any call for the use of repatriation hospitals, they certainly will be made available. 
However, other steps have been taken by my Department. Fifteen nursing sisters from the Repatriation General Hospital at Concord left Australia and looked after orphans on the first airlift from Saigon. Thirty sisters from the Repatriation General Hospital at Heidelberg, Victoria, were to board the second flight which was to pick up Vietnamese orphans, but that flight was cancelled yesterday. I understand that these nurses are at present on standby. If the bringing of orphans from Vietnam to Australia is resumed, these 30 Victorian nurses from my Department are available to travel to help in the passage of such orphans to Australia. 
Advertisements were placed in newspapers throughout Australia on 22 March last asking people who claimed to have suffered damage as a result of the cyclone to make claims to the Department of Repatriation and Compensation. Since then an office of the Department has been established in Darwin with staff which was largely recruited locally. Some of the people appointed are public servants whose usual occupations had been rather abruptly disturbed by the cyclone and others are people who were not public servants but who were residents in Darwin. In all of the State branches of the Department special- to use a term used by  Senator Drake-Brockman-  crash courses of instruction have been given to some of the members of the staff on the principles that are involved in this scheme of compensation. All of the claims will be sent to the office in Darwin to be determined. As at yesterday 6530 household and 1044 business claim forms had been issued to applicants and that is about 60 per cent of the total number which is expected to be lodged. There had been 2488 interviews conducted by 30 March last which affected 2257 households and some 23 1 businesses. 
I am informed by the officers of my Department that it was fairly clear in the early stages that a number pf people were overstating their claims. Where a claim does appear to be unreasonable, it is being examined and proof may be required before any payment is made. The property valuations are being made by the Taxation Office. Vehicle damage is being assessed by various motoring organisations which have given their assistance. The ownership of motor vehicles is checked against registration and local records. The same is being done with registration of land titles where there is a question of damage to property. 
Funds have not yet been appropriated for the payment of the compensation, but it is planned to make available some $25m in Appropriation Bill (No. 5) and a further $33m in the Supply Bills to be introduced in the autumn sittings of the Parliament. There is a problem involved in this matter insofar as one has to treat these people with humanity while at the same time seeing that public moneys are not being handed out to those who are taking advantage of the peculiar circumstances in order to make a profit out of this disaster and out of the Government. I think that in all the circumstances the Government is taking every step that can be taken to fulfil both of these obligations. 
-Yes, my attention has been drawn to the advertisement. In fact it was drawn to the matter by  Senator Poyser  himself. The advertisement does say that free testing is available from Angus and Coote for pensioners and that then one may purchase or hire a hearing aid. It is a fact that under the social services of this country pensioners are entitled to free hearing aids and to the servicing of the free hearing aids. Of course, there is nothing unlawful in what the Angus and Coote organisation is doing if it is suggesting that it is providing a hearing aid superior to those which are being provided by the National Acoustic Laboratories. I do not think we would agree that that is the case. There is certainly nothing unlawful about this. I repeat that we provide free hearing aids and that no pensioner need feel obliged to take advantage, if advantage it is, of the offer which is made in these advertisements. Pensioners can have all these facilities provided for them by the Australian Department of Health. 
If I can answer first the last part of  Senator Webster's  question with regard to the control of the insurance industry, that is already possessed by the Australian Government. In fact, it has been the practice under previous governments as well as this Government to have insurance commissioners and a life assurance commissioner who have the obligation to regulate very strictly the operation of both general insurance companies and life assurance companies. 
I suppose it depends on what  Senator Webster  means by 'control '. I would regard it as control. If  Senator Webster  does not mean control by what the insurance commissioners and the life assurance commissioner do, I would ask him to give me another definition of control. The Australian Labor Party does have as part of its policy the establishment of an Australian Government insurance office. In fact, it was included in the policy speech which was presented by the Prime Minister before we successfully fought the last Federal election. We do intend to carry out that policy. 

 Senator Webster has asked whether legislation will be introduced in this session. If by 'this session' he means session in the correct meaning of the word, then certainly it will be introduced during this session. Whether or not it will be introduced during these sittings- this sessional period- has not yet been determined by the Cabinet. In due course it will be determined by the Cabinet. When it is determined by the Cabinet I shall see that  Senator Webster  is one of the first to learn about it. Staff has been recruited by the Department of Repatriation and Compensation to deal with the insurance activities of the Department, which is not the same thing as the Australian Government insurance office, in the same way as staff has been recruited to deal with the compensation activities of the Department. This is in no way pre-empting any action which Parliament may take. It may well decide to do something different from what the Government would like to do. 
It clearly seems to be sensible that if one does intend to embark on some major new fields of activity, one should have inquired thoroughly into those matters before one attempts to do it. One needs to have the appropriate staff in order to make these inquiries- for example, to answer the questions which  Senator Webster  has put to us about what the cost and staff of the insurance office would be. That is the present position in which the Government comes to the Parliament. I would not expect that there would be any greatly undue delay in this matter. A number of representations have been made to me by various insurance companies. In fact one very prominent official of a general insurance company adopted a most threatening manner to me only a few days ago and told me that unless I gave him an undertaking that we would not proceed with the establishment of the Australian Government insurance office, he would see that everything was done to bring this Government down. I must say that my response to this gentleman's approach has been to hasten the introduction of this legislation, because if people want to bring the Government down I might as well give them some reason for wishing to do so. I do not intend to give them any of the undertakings for which they are asking. 
in reply- This has been one of a rather long series of debates on these  2  Bills and related bills in which the Senate has taken part for what seems like the last few centuries. Whatever else can be said about the Bills they do seem to have become the subject of very dispassionate debates. I do not know whether this is because we have a very objective membership in the Senate or whether everbody has become exhausted by the topic. Certainly I am thankful that no great heat has been engendered today by any of the matters before us. The Government is pleased that the Opposition is not only not opposing National Health Bill (No.  2),  but, if I heard correctly, actually is supporting it. I take it that this will mean that that Bill will be carried by acclaim. It is a Bill which will clean up some of the anomalies which have existed for quite a long time now. I am sure that nobody could put forward any reason as to why it should be opposed although it took this Government to introduce a Bill to deal with these matters. 
I am most distressed to find that the Opposition is opposing the National Health Bill (No.  3).  It is a measure which we also find necessary. We are disappointed to find that the Opposition is opposing it, although I must say that we are not particularly surprised in view of the association which the Opposition has had with these funds.  Senator Button, Senator Grimes  and  Senator Melzer  dealt with most of the matters raised in the debate and I do not want to detain the Senate in taking a vote, the result of which I think we can all predict. I do want to comment on some of the remarks made by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. He referred to the hospital and health insurance funds and various luminaries in the Australian Labor Party who had occupied certain positions. 
I am not disputing that they were members. I accept that those people did hold offices within the funds. Nobody on this side of the chamber or in the Government is arguing that there is no membership representation or that there is no consumer representation. All we are saying is that there is underrepresentation. We do not dispute the fact that these eminent people from the Labor Party were elected to those positions in the funds. All we say, as  Senator Melzer  pointed out in some of the examples she cited, is that there is considerable under-representation. Again with regard to the point which  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson repeated, to the effect that this measure in some way is related to Medibank, I am not quite sure what point one is making if one says that it is or is not related to Medibank. All I say is that whether this is a good thing or a bad thing the Bill is not specifically related to Medibank. We believe that some of the ills within the existing health benefit funds will be corrected by this measure. Whether or not there is Medibank we believe that there are certain malpractices, for want of a better term- I do not want to imply by that anything of an unlawful nature in the conduct of the existing funds- which will be corrected by the legislation now before the Senate as National Health Bill (No. 3). 
I think all honourable senators understand the issues clearly enough. I do not think anybody will thank me if I unduly prolong the proceedings of the Senate. I thank all honourable senators who have made contributions to the debate. I think that all of them have been reasonable contributions which one might agree with or disagree with. 1 do not think anybody could take offence at anything that has been said. The Government appreciates the Opposition's support for National Health Bill (No. 2) and I make a last minute plea to the good sense and generosity of the Opposition not to continue in the dogmatic and obstructive way in which it has carried on in the past. I appeal to Opposition members at this last moment to change their minds and support the National Health Bill (No. 3) because I am sure they will find that it will benefit all Australians including themselves. 

<graphic href="063232197504081_30_1_3_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="063232197504081_30_1_4_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="063232197504081_30_1_5_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="063232197504081_30_1_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="063232197504081_30_1_2_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
l) (2) and (3) The Social Welfare Commission has been established to undertake a program of reviewing national social welfare initiatives with special reference, among other objectives, to decentralising programs and involving communities in decision-making, and to monitoring and assessing programs with respect to both goals and actual performance 
The Commission itself reflects the concern for consumer participation in its own structure. One part-time Commissioner,  Mr J.  Comerford, is a representative of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and another,  Mr George 
Papadopoulos, represents migrant interests. A third parttime Commissioner,  Mrs Sadie  Canning, is an aboriginal who has detailed knowledge of health and welfare matters affecting the indigenous population. 
The now disbanded Advisory Council on Social Security/ Welfare provided for a membership representing users as well as providers of social services. 
The Social Welfare Commission has involved consumers in its information gathering and policy-formulating work. Resultant policy proposals are 'client-oriented' in that they provide for decentralised community-based programs. The Commission's Committee of Enquiry into Aged Persons' Housing for example received nearly 300 submissions of which approximately one hundred were from consumers. The Committee's Report due to be tabled soon will recommend on acceptable levels of service provision to be reached co-operatively by participation of each level of government, voluntary associations and consumer groups. 
In assessing the welfare needs of the handicapped, special account of clients ' views was taken. 
In producing a report on Child Care services the Social Welfare Commission established a project team with several members representing user interests. The report recommended a community-based program of services. 
The Commission has a continuing commitment to monitor the progress of these and all other social welfare programs with a view to stating priorities, co-ordinating activities and assessing performance. 
One of the biggest initiatives in the welfare field is the action-research program entitled The Australian Assistance Plan which stimulates local participation in social service planning and execution and which encompasses a comprehensive assessment program. 
This program is 'client oriented'. It provides community based Councils known as Regional Councils for Social Development at the Regional level which encourages the involvement of organised client groups. These Regional Councils for Social Development provide client groups with a forum in which to state their views on consumer problems. They will be able to take action on these problems through access to funds to undertake research and to set up services. They will have the assistance of professional officers, social planners and Community Development Officers. 
It will also be of interest to the honourable  Senator to  know that until the Australian Assistance Plan is defined by legislation it is an experimental, evolving program which is being tested in 35 selected regions. These 35 pilot programs are being monitored and evaluated by the Social Welfare Commission and the Department of Social Security. 
The pilot projects have also been evaluated by an independent team from universities in each State. These evaluators have been monitoring the development of the program since February 1974 and reported to the Commission recently. I expect to receive copies of these reports soon. 
In each State the evaluators have been attending meetings within the pilot projects to observe the processes of establishing regional councils and, to some extent, their operation. They assessed the nature of participation by individuals and groups in the projects, the viability of the regions and the extent to which the regional councils seem capable of achieving their stated objectives. 
The Australian Assistance Plan provides funds for the establishment of Regional Councils for Social Development. The funds include an administrative grant for a social planning Secretariat, a capitation grant for community projects, and a grant for Community Development Officers. The purpose of the grants is to involve local people including client groups in assessing their needs and undertake social planning to meet those needs. The functions of the Regional Councils are set out in chapter 4 and chapter 2, paragraph 2, of the 'Australian Assistance Plan: Discussion Paper No. 1 ' which document was tabled in the Senate on 30 August 1973. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) In general, my view on traditional research centred on laboratories and sophisticated equipment is that it is subject to the law of diminishing returns. Whereas it produced major strides in control of specific acute disease in the past quarter century, it is of marginal value in tackling the epidemics of affluence or degenerative diseases such as strokes. Such illnesses now kill most Australians. Epidemiology, clinical pharmacology, environmental and occupational medicine and other studies of the life-style factors of most importance for a long, healthy life are increasingly favoured for N.H. &amp; M.R.C. funding. However, I have recommended to my advisers the early setting up of a centre of excellence for diagnosis, treatment and clinical research into strokes. 
The report which was in the Daily Mirror, while reflecting my desire to shift the emphasis away from certain categories of disease of interest to the reporter, omitted my contrasting emphasis on the hazards to which I give greater importance because they deprive an increasing number of younger people of health and of productive years of life; alcohol, the road toll, cigarettes, misused drugs, poor diet, etc. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
There is sufficient anti-haemophilic factor or cryoprecipitate to meet the needs of all haemophiliacs requiring admission to hospital for treatment. There are not, however, amounts available at present to cater entirely for the home-care programs which constitute an expanding need in line with current trends in the treatment of haemophilia. 
Yes. The needs for surgery, trauma and dentistry are being met. 
Stocks are inadequate to cater for total care of all spontaneous bleeds. Those requiring treatment in hospital are covered, as indicated in (1) and (2) above, but there is a shortage for some programs involving care of individuals by parents or others in their homes. 
No. The estimated annual requirement is 13 million units. 
) No. The actual production was 8.2 million units. 
The present production capacity of the plant at the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories is approximately 750 000 units of concentrate per annum. Plans are in hand to expand the plant capacity as a matter of priority in order to reduce the current shortfall which affects some home-care programs. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 

I had not seen that interesting piece of information. 
-None of the journals which I read reported this fascinating piece of information. It is interesting to know that members of the medical profession are learning the charms of the rustic life. I must confess that sometimes the expression 'hillbilly' has been used to describe members of the Country Party of Australia, or the National Party which I think is its present alias. I must confess, from what I have seen lately from certain organisations which purport to represent doctors, that my view has been that if one were to use the word 'hillbilly' about anybody it could be used much more appropriately about many doctors than it could be a bout farmers. I would imagine that if doctors were to join the Country Party and farmers were to join the General Practitioners Society the intellectual level of both organisations would be raised. 

 -What Senator Baume has put to me is not quite correct. The appointment which I cancelled was for yesterday afternoon. An appointment had been made by somebody in my office apparently some weeks ago, unknown to me, for yesterday afternoon at 4 o'clock. I learned of the appointment last week. I was handling a Bill in the Senate yesterday and it was inconvenient for me to see representatives from insurance companies of whom I have seen a great many very frequently over recent months. If there is one group of people which I can say I have seen as much as anybody has seen anybody else it is people from insurance companies who generally have much the same story to tell me. It is not a very cheerful story, either. An appointment had been made. I had seen people from insurance companies only a few weeks before and I gathered that they were not very happy with Labor Party policy. I issued instructions to my Department, and I intend to follow this course myself, that time will not be made available either by senior officers of my Department or by me to have discussions with anybody unless I have been advised in writing in advance of the subject matter of the conversation. I do not see any reason why I should give up 3 hours as I did several weeks ago in the afternoon to talk to people who came in and merely made general complaints about the Government, nor do I see why the Secretary of the Department or the First Assistant Secretary or anybody else should give hours of his time without having some advance knowledge of what it is that is to be put to him other than general stories that some people do not like the Government's policy. I intend to follow that practice. 
I have leaned over backwards to provide information to representatives of insurance companies and I do not believe that they have shown the same consideration to me as I have shown to them. At the same time as they have been repeatedly visiting me, repeatedly visiting members of my ministerial staff and repeatedly taking up time of senior officers of my Department and getting all the information we can make available to them, they have been conducting campaigns among shareholders and policyholders in their companies and among the members of their staffs, directed against the Government and its policy. I reached the end of my tether- to put it not any more strongly than that- a week or so ago when the general manager of one large insurance company telephoned me and informed me that he was going to see that this Government was brought down unless I gave undertakings that we were going to abandon Australian Labor Party policy. It will take more than an insurance company to bring down this Government and it will take more than a few telephonic threats from some general manager of an insurance company before I or the Australian Labor Party will abandon the policy which this Part)' has adopted by democratic decision of its members and which has been endorsed by the people of Australia on 2 occasions within the last 2 years. 
I am not so familiar as  Senator Jessop  with the dietary habits of the inhabitants of West Germany. Nor was I aware of the other information which he gave to us. 
However, I agree with him that if the Labour Government of West Germany has taken these steps there must have been very good reasons for it to have taken them. Accordingly, I shall convey this information to my colleague the Minister for Health. In view of the fact that the Minister's Labour colleague, the West German Minister for Health, has taken these steps, obviously very serious consideration would have to be given to what has been done in the Federal Republic of West Germany. I will see that an early reply is given to  Senator Jessop. 
The actual adoption of children within Australia is not a function of the Federal Government; it is a function of the States. The applications by the prospective parents to adopt children are dealt with by the appropriate State courts, and there is really nothing that we can do about that. The children may be granted visas to enter Australia, whether they are coming from South Vietnam or from anywhere else, but in this case, we are particularly concerned with the situation in South Vietnam. Adoptions that have taken place overseas and where the adoptive parents are coming or returning to Australia to live are usually recognised in Australia but may not be recognised in every case. Other children may be granted visas- these are the particular ones to whom  Senator Primmer  would be referring- to join prospective adoptive parents in Australia where the adoption proposals have the support of the relevant child welfare authorities, which in these cases would be the various departments of community welfare and child welfare in the different States. After entering Australia children who have not been lawfully adopted are immigrant children and as such are dealt with under the provisions of the Immigration (Guardianship of Children) Act. 
In the particular case of the 2 1 5 children who arrived from Vietnam on Saturday last, the normal formalities had not been completed at the time of their arrival. In a number of cases the formalities had already been commenced and children allocated to proposed adoptive parents. In some instances allocations have been made to proposed parents whose applications may not have the support of the appropriate State child welfare authorities. Others have not been allocated to specific parents and ultimately will be allocated, if one can use the rather inhuman word 'allocated' in regard to children, to the various States which no doubt will make appropriate arrangements through the different child welfare organisations within those States. Until these allocations have been made the children are not being issued with entry permits and consequently are remaining under the control of the Minister for Labor and Immigration. When entry permits are issued the children will legally become wards of the Minister for Social Security, but in practice his powers and functions will be undertaken by the State child welfare departments. There will be difficulties in identifying all of the children who have arrived. Already we have had some problems in this regard. Some 100 children still have not been allocated to the various States. This matter is being dealt with within the terms of the Immigration (Guardianship of Children ) Act. 
Any further flights which may bring Vietnamese children or Vietnamese orphans to Australia will include an experienced welfare worker with immigration experience. We expect that the problems of documentation and identification, which 1 think of necessity occurred in view of the very rushed way in which the previous flight had to be handled, will be avoided if there are any subsequent flights bringing immigrant children from Vietnam into Australia. 
I have an answer to the question which  Senator Marriott  asked me about the inexpensive and desirable advertising for Medibank in which the Government is engaging. The Minister for Social Security has provided me with an answer, which is as follows: 
Creative work - 
That is his expression, not mine -  on the Medibank advertising campaign is being carried out by Mullins, Clarke and Ralph Advertising (NSW) Pty Ltd which is a wholly Australian owned advertising agency. The advertising is being placed by the placing/charging agencies appointed by the Australian Government. Medibank press display advertising is placed by Berry Currie Advertising (NSW) Pty Ltd. Medibank television advertising is placed by Jaques McCaskell Advertising Pty Ltd. Medibank Radio advertising is placed by Fortune Australia Pty Ltd. These placing/charging agencies are wholly Australian owned. 
-Yes, I can inform the honourable senator. A new building is being constructed at the. Repatriation General Hospital in Hobart. It will house two 30-bed wards, paramedical facilities such as physiotherapy and rehabilitation, and other ancillary services will be provided, such as air conditioning, staff training and lecture facilities, the dining room and so on. Construction started on 14 November 1973 and it is expected to be completed on 15 December or thereabouts of this year at a cost of some $2,400,000. The Department of Repatriation and Compensation is working in conjunction with the Department of Health in the planning of a new pathology unit. It is proposed that the 2 departments- Repatriation and Compensation and Health- will act jointly so that a new service in the field of pathology can be provided more cheaply by the two working together. Both departments believe that the demand for pathology facilities in Hobart does not warrant each department having its own facilities. The Department of Repatriation and Compensation will provide the site for the new building, and it is estimated that it will cost about $1,500,000; it will be included in the 1975-76 works program. There are some other projects which my Department has in train at present, including the building of a new branch office at a cost of some $800,000, a new appliance centre at a cost of some $400,000 and a new out-patient clinic for repatriation beneficiaries at a cost of about $30,000. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, I am one of those who is pleased that there is a chance once again to debate in the Senate the war in Vietnam, lt had seemed for a long time that the Opposition was most reluctant to debate what had happened in Vietnam. In fact, when I for one during the course of a debate would occasionally refer to the role which Australia had played in Vietnam, to what had happened in that unfortunate country, I found that Opposition senators were most reluctant to become involved in a discussion of what had occurred there. I think that they have made a serious mistake in bringing before the Senate this lame, laborious and dreary debate which we have heard from them today, because the Australian people know very well what happened in Vietnam. They know of the despicable role which previous governments, which consisted of parties to which Opposition senators belong, played in that country. They know very well that previous Liberal-Country Party governments were responsible for the death of some 500 Australians and for the injury of some thousands of Australians. One does not know how many Vietnamese, for whom we saw the crocodile tears shed today, were slaughtered by the actions of the previous Government; not by any neglect, not by any oversight, but by deliberate systematic bombing and military attack. 
I find it offensive that the people who played their part in the genocidal campaign against the Vietnamese people should have the effrontery to come into the Senate, talk about the losses of Vietnamese life and ask us what the Australian Government is doing about that. We have made our contribution to that. We stopped the killing of Australians and the killing by Australians in Vietnam. If the Australian Labor Government did nothing other than to have brought home Australian troops from Vietnam, then we would have made a greater contribution to human decency than any Australian government has made since the end of the Second World War. Honourable senators opposite are easy targets. One is tempted to ask what these people would do. When one looks across to the other side of the chamber one sees honourable senators of military age who showed their heroism by voting to conscript 20-year olds to go off to Vietnam and be killed. They are easy targets. None of them went to Vietnam. They conscripted other people to go to Vietnam. They showed their bravery by sending young Australians off to be slaughtered. They showed their bravery by sending the Commonwealth Police to arrest people who refused to go and fight- the people who had the courage to stand up and say that they were not going off to be killed in Vietnam. 
It is rather sickening to hear honourable senators opposite in the Senate today talking about the losses of Vietnamese life. When they were in government they showed how much they cared about the losses of Vietnamese life and the losses of Australian life. They thought that they had a bit of a gimmick. I rather thought that after yesterday's debate in the House of Representatives honourable senators opposite would have let the matter rest rather than bring it on for debate again today. I do not know whether they heard what actually happened in the House of Representatives. Honourable senators opposite say that in some way we have acted discreditably with regard to the orphans who have been brought out of South Vietnam when in fact the American Commander-in-Chief in the South Pacific has congratulated the actions which the Australian Government took in attempting to bring orphans from Vietnam to Australia and to give aid to people who were refugees from the fighting. 
I am in some doubt as to whether these people are refugees from the North Vietnamese. They are refugees from the fighting. They are people who are actually fleeing the explosion of shells, the bombings and the fighting which is going on in Vietnam. According to the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam, several million people in its area have also fled from the fighting, and it is asking for aid for these people. I see no reason why I should prefer to take the word of people like Field Marshal Thieu to that of the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam because one thing is sure, and that is that if one asks the average Vietnamese whom does he support, whom does he take to be the leader of his country, one will find a pretty microscopic group who say that Field Marshal Thieu or Air Vice-Marshal Ky or any of the other people who have been fleeing in such haste as the people of their own country proceed to catch up with them, represent the masses of people in that country. What has happened in Vietnam? The history of Vietnam has been told so many times: That Vietnam was once an independent country, a country very proud of its independence; that in the 1840s it became a French colony; that the resistance to the French colonialists did not cease through all the time it was a colony; and that when the Vichy French collapsed and did not fight, when the Japanese invaded Indo-China in 1942, our allies in resistance to the Japanese, the comrades in arms of Australian soldiers, were the Vietnamese National Liberation Front, the Vietminh under the leadership of Ho Chi Minh, who carried on the fight as our allies against the Japanese while the French colonial governors collaborated with the Japanese. 
After the war the French were restored in Vietnam. It is interesting to hear members of the Liberal and Country Parties talk about national independence in the same way as it was rather sickening to hear certain American politicians talk about national independence when they fought to retain the French empire in Vietnam. It is only within the last 3 decades that these people who now talk about independence, who now talk about Soviet colonialism, were actually fighting to retain the French empire in Vietnam. The French were smashed at Dien Bien Phu, not by the Russians, not by the Chinese, not by the Hungarians, but by the Vietnamese. They defeated France, one of the most powerful countries in the world, with all the military assistance being given to it by the Americans. Talks took place in 1954 at Geneva which were supposed to provide for the peaceful future of Vietnam. One of the provisions in the agreements reached at Geneva was that for the time being there should be a division into 2 zones, one in the north and one in the south, and that as soon as practicableand in any event no later than the middle of 1956- free elections should be held throughout the whole of Vietnam. Those elections were not held. Ngo Dinh Diem, a man whom we are led to believe- not by the communists, but by responsible Americans- was subsequently deposed and possibly murdered by the American Government itself or an agency of the American Government, was brought back from Belgium, where he was living, and a puppet government- there is no other way to describe it- was created in South Vietnam. The so-called republic of Vietnam was established and the Geneva Accords were completely defied by the United States and by its puppet regime in South Vietnam. Fighting continued, as it was bound to continue, in the one country of Vietnam, falsely and unlawfully divided by the actions of the Eisenhower Administration in the United States of America. The conflict reached the level where a provisional government was established in South Vietnam. 
We hear nonsense now about this invasion by the North Vietnamese of South Vietnam. There never were 2 countries. The Prime Minister of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam in Hanoi, Phan Van Dong, is a South Vietnamese. Air Vice-Marshal Ky, who was once greeted in Australia with great acclaim as a saviour, a man who stated in what high admiration he held Adolf Hitler and who showed his patriotism by fighting for the French against Algerian independence in 1956, a man who fought as a pilot strafing and bombing the Algerian people virtually as a mercenary fighting for the French, comes from Hanoi. If there is a northern invasion of South Vietnam, one of the invaders is Air Vice-Marshal Ky, a North Vietnamese. 
Ultimately it became apparent that the forces of the Vietnamese people were stronger than the combined forces of the puny puppet regime in Saigon and the United States of America, the most powerful country in the world, and its satraps who took part in the struggle along with the United States, were driven from that country. No one has ever been able to claim that one Chinese or Russian soldier or a soldier from any other country in the world has fought in the forces of North Vietnam or in the so-called Vietcong, the forces of the Provisional Revolutionary Government in South Vietnam. Indeed, at the time the Americans were justifying their original intervention in Vietnam- and in one of the White Papers produced before the United States Senate- it was found that only 5 per cent of the arms in the Vietcong 's possession came from communist sources, that the other 95 per cent were either arms captured from the southern forces, and the Americans, or primitive arms they had manufactured for themselves. Still we hear this dreary stuff that one would have thought would have been an insult to any national parliament about the international communist conspiracy. People who have apparently never heard of the schism between the Chinese and the Soviet Union, people who are supposed to be speaking responsibly on foreign affairs, talk about our using our influence or whatever it is with the Russians and the Chinese to stop the war in Vietnam. 
I can assure them, as one who has been to North Vietnam, that neither the Russians nor the Chinese control the North Vietnamese. North Vietnam is an independent country which has fought for its independence against all foreign invaders, and despite the fact that it follows what can be described as a communist ideology- and it is a communist ideology- North Vietnam is part of neither a Soviet camp nor a Chinese camp. If we were to suffer the calamity of having the people opposite in government in this country, if we were to have the calamity of the people in charge in the US being as uneducated, as illtutored, and as unsophisticated as are the people who purport to speak for the Opposition here, we would have a repetition of what occurred in Cuba, which, after what was a non-communist revolution, not even originally supported by the Communist Party- the revolution of Fidel Castro- was driven by the actions of people, whose understanding and sophistication were no greater than those of the people we hear opposite, into becoming one of the most loyal satellites of the Soviet Union. That is the effect of the policies of people like honourable senators opposite. 
That sort of thing that the Opposition is advocating and has been advocating in the other place is driving us back into the cold war. If members of the Opposition were influential, if they were able to do the sort of things they would like to do- I am not quite sure what they want to do; I do not know whether they want to raise an expeditionary force or send conscripts back into Vietnam, or what it is- that still remains a mysterythey would have us back in the cold war.  Senator Davidson  spoke as if he were at a meeting of the World Council of Churches or Austcare, or something, which is all very nice, but it does not seem to be a solution to the problems facing us today. Certainly, it does not justfy his support for a resolution accusing this Government of duplicity. We have been completely open on this question. We were opposed to foreign intervention in Vietnam, and we are still opposed to it. We do not regard the presence of so-called North Vietnamese in South Vietnam as being a foreign invasion. 
I want to say only one small thing before I finish. Of the dogmatic, untutored, unsophisticated minds we have opposite, we find a reflection in some other parts of the world. One of the things which distresses me very greatly and which comes from this arbitrary division of the world into the communists- as if Mao Tse-tung and Brezhnev and Phan Van Quang and Kim il Sung were all going along the same path together- one of the consequences of this untutored and unsophisticated view of world politics is that we may well drive people into identifying the United States of America with all that is evil in the world, because if one were to identify the United States with the point of view we get from the Australian Opposition, that is what would happen. I suggest it is a travesty of the American position, because certainly the leaders of the majority party both in the United States Senate and in the House of Representatives are and always have been opponents of the American intervention in Vietnam. In fact, I remember being welcomed in Washington as long ago as 1967 by  Senator Mansfield,  the majority leader in the Senate, whose views on the Vietnam question would be in all essential matters the same as those of the Australian Labor Party. But the hazard is that the United States could well abandon what are real and constructive responsibilities that it does have for the preservation of peace in other parts of the world- for example, in the Middle East. I ask Opposition senators to think just a little about what they are doing. If they do revive the cold war in the way that they would like to see the cold war revived- if by some ill chance they become the Government- not only would they be doing damage to the position in Vietnam and SouthEast Asia but they could be prejudicing the course of peace throughout the entire world. The Australian Labor Party believes that that would be an incalculable tragedy and for that reason we oppose the motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers.) 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator McAuliffe)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
The Corporations and Securities Industry Bill which is before the Senate tonight is a most important Bill, and I think that the importance of the regulation of the securities market, which is sometimes rather incorrectly referred to as the securities industry, has been recognised by the Senate through the establishment of a Senate Select Committee which has been sitting for some 416 years. Although I am a member of the Committee I think I may be pardoned for saying that it has been a very good Committee. Criticisms have been made by various people that the Committee has taken unduly long in bringing down its report, the bulk of which is now before the Senate, but I do not believe that the criticisms can be fairly justified as the Committee determined at a very early stage in its deliberations that it would not be like some committees and merely perform a function of bringing down a page or two of recommendations put in some very stark form. The Committee decided that there should be a detailed analysis of the operations of the securities market throughout Australia and that before any recommendations were made as to how the law relating to the securities market should be changed adequate reasons should be given for taking any such action. For that reason the Committee engaged in quite detailed case studies of some of the more significant events which occurred in the exchange of securities within this country over the past years, and particularly during the mining boom which occurred in the early 1970s. 
When the Committee's report is completed, as doubtless it shortly will be, I think that the Senate and all Australians who are interested in the matter will have before them a substantial historical document setting out in very great detail some very important events in Australia's economic history. What has been revealed by the Committee's inquiries illustrates without any doubt that the economic history of a country is determined not only by what can be narrowly looked at as economic activity- that is, the conduct of industry, the building of factories, the discovery and mining of minerals, the selling of goods and services- but also and almost equally importantly in the type of capitalist system or mixed economy in which we live, by the trading of shares in public companies. We have a system whereby trading in shares in public companies, which is the ownership of a large part of the means of production, distribution and exchange, takes place. 
In fact, many of the distortions which occurred in our economy, many of the problems with which we were faced, with which we are still faced and with which other countries have been faced, have not resulted from any substantial weakness in the economy in the sense of a lack of raw materials, a lack of industry; they have resulted from imperfections in the means whereby the ownership of public companies, the trading of shares in public companies, the financing of public companies, takes place. This was found to be so most glaringly in the United States at the height of the Great Depression when  President  Roosevelt's Administration, after its election in 1932, determined that at least part- certainly not all but at least part and a significant part- of the great distress which had afflicted the United States during the Great Depression had been caused not by problems in the economy, in the narrow sense of the economy, but by malpractices, defects in the stock exchanges of the United States. 
For that reason the Securities and Exchange Commission Act was passed as a part of the New Deal, and a most important part of the New Deal, and the Securities and Exchange Commission was established. It may be remembered that the first  Chairman  of the American Securities and Exchange Commission was  Mr Joseph  Kennedy, the father of the late  President  of the United States. He was regarded, rightly or wrongly, as being one of those who was most experienced in manipulating the stock markets, and therefore it was considered that one could not find anyone better suited to catching those who had been doing the same sorts of things that he had been doing. 
I would not disagree with  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. I was saying that  Mr Joseph  Kennedy was a man indeed of very great experience- in fact, unsurpassed experience, one might say- in the manipulations of the securities market. 
-That is right.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack has said that it was like making the poacher the gamekeeper. But I think that  Sir Magnus  would agree that he was a poacher who was proved to be a very effective gamekeeper indeed. There are still many great imperfections in the American economy. There are certainly many things which members of the Australian Labor Party do not find desirable and which in this country it is within our policies to see regulated. Certainly there are still from time to time scandals within the American stock exchanges, and there are some very serious scandals indeed. But the establishment of the Securities and Exchange Commission has certainly led to a situation in which those abuses are nowhere near as great as they once were. As part of the long period of tutelage which I endured, for want of a better term, under  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack and his successor,  Senator Rae,  I found it necessary to read a great many volumes. If one were to look back at what took place in the period particularly between 1900 and 1910 at the time of the war between the New York Stock Exchange- the Big Board- and the now defunct Consolidated Stock Exchange- the Little Board- the stories which one reads would make the hair of even the most bald-headed member of the Senate rise. But, indeed, none of the things which happened between 1900 and 1910, and indeed none of the things subsequently dealt with by the Securities and Exchange Commission in the United States, could have been any worse than some of the matters which were revealed by the inquiries of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. We learned as members of this Committee and the public learned from the public inquiries of the Committee. I would think that whatever the report of the Committee may say and whatever recommendations the Committee may or may not make the revelations which were made because of the Committee 's activity in themselves were of very great importance to the Australian people in understanding just how the economy of their country has been managed. The things which we discovered then were just as serious as any of the abuses which have been discovered in any other country at any time in history. 
I remember shortly after the Committee had been constituted I was travelling in the United States of America and happened to be invited to attend a meeting of one of the smaller American stock exchanges, the Honolulu Stock Exchange. The  President  of the Exchange introduced me to the brokers who were gathered there one day as a member of the Australian Senate Committee which was inquiring into the Australian stock exchanges. I was rather embarrassed when the assembled Honolulu stock brokers started laughing and did not stop laughing for about 5 minutes when they thought of the hilarious task that one would have in investigating Australian stock exchanges, so extraordinary was the reputation they had gained for themselves in those parts of the world which knew something about what had been happening in Australia during the mining boom. This matter has been publicly canvassed and canvassed in the Parliament for quite a considerable period of years. The Australian Labor Party in its policy speeches has made it quite clear that it has proposed that we should introduce legislation to establish a commission or a regulatory body to control the exchange of securities in this country. There has been considerable debate here and elsewhere as to what form the commission should take. 
I am not disputing that. In fact what  Senator Greenwood  says would only reinforce what I am saying. It was Liberal Party policy. The Liberal Party had not actually got around to doing something about it and I agree it was in its policy like, I think, the belief in God. I appreciate that it was in its policy. I am glad that  Senator Greenwood  reminds me of this. It adds to my argument that it is well known that even the Liberal Party had been so distressed by what had been going on that members of the Liberal Party found it necessary to include such a proposal in their platform, although they did not find it necessary, to actually do anything about it. It required a resolution from our former colleague,  Mr Justice  Murphy, to have even a committee established to inquire into the problems with which we are dealing. It has been claimed by the Opposition that more time ought to be given to consider this matter. In fact I am rather startled, on reading the amendment which is before the Senate, that the Opposition proposes that a new committee should be established to inquire into the matter again. 
-Yes, call the witnesses again and start off apparently from scratch. The only proviso apparently is - 
I do not think they are. I notice that the amendment says that the committee should report by  September  1 this year. 
-This year, yes. It is an admirable objective and one which one would only hope would be fulfilled. If one looks back on many committees which have been given a time in which to make their reports anybody who has been in the Senate for any time at all knows that the date by which a Senate committee has to report on a complex matter generally has nothing whatsoever to do with the date on which it actually does report. 
I do not think I am. If our committee, the committee of which you were once chairman had reported by the date it was originally set to report we would have reported years and years ago. In faa, the report of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange already would have something of the antiquity of the Domesday Book. 

 Senator Missen has put forward some arguments tonight. I would not wish to disagree with anything he said. There may well be a great deal of merit in what he said, but I suggest to him that there are more appropriate ways of dealing with the matters that he has raised than by sending the Bill off to another committee. 
We have enough committees, I think, functioning already. I hope that the honourable senator would not expect any of the unfortunate members of the Senate Standing Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs, who are already busily traversing the length and breadth of this great continent to inquire into the National Compensation Bill, having recently completed their Herculean labours on the Family Law Bill, should be required now to set their minds to repeating the exercise at which so many of us laboured for so long and for so many years. One wonders who would be the members of this new committee which is to go into all of these matters all over again. In fact the Senate does have provision for committees. The Senate has a Committee of the Whole. No Bill which comes forward will be perfect and no government has been more agreeable to reasonable suggestions. 1 know my colleague and friend,  Senator Guilfoyle,  would agree when she looks at me and recalls my own record as Minister representing the Minister for Social Security and as Minister representing the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass).  The honourable senator knows how amiable we are and how prone we are to accept any reasonable suggestion which is put forward. I am sure that the members of the Opposition would find precisely the same attitude would be adopted by us in discussing this Bill when it goes into the Committee of the Whole. 
This is an essential Bill and I believe that it would be quite improper for the Opposition, by its brutal weight of numbers, to have the Bill referred to a committee. I know that  Senator Bunton,  as a political neuter, would not be a party to the sort of thing which members of the Liberal and Country Parties would like to do, and that is to delay this essential, urgent and much traversed legislation as it would be delayed by the amendment which is before the Senate tonight. 
-Another Tasminex or Poseidon, in fact, could occur while the committee was inquiring. Goodness knows what sort of tragedies could afflict us. I am surprised at  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. I know that he does not really mean it. I can tell by the smile on his face that he does not really mean that there ought to be another committee constituted to deal with this matter. In his heart of hearts he would like to vote for the second reading of this Bill, and I am sure that he will absent himself when the division ultimately takes place. I suggest that a Bill of this importance, a matter of this urgency, should not be delayed in the cavalier way in which members of the Opposition wish to delay it by this subterfuge which is contained in the amendment which has been moved. 
This is a matter of urgency and should be dealt with promptly. I notice that  Senator Missen  was very concerned. Although he is not normally a senator who becomes very agitated I noticed something of a tremor in his voice on some occasions. I am sure he must have felt strongly about some of these matters, otherwise he would not have spoken. Any of the evils which have captured his attention can be dealt with by way of amendment when the Bill is taken into the Committee stage. I suggest that this is the honourable course for the Opposition to follow.  Senator Greenwood  has told us that for many years the Liberal Party has been anxious to see a Bill of this nature, but it was too preoccupied with other things to actually introduce the Bill during those many long weary years- like Stephen's reign- when it reigned. The proper course is for the Bill to be read a second time and then to deal with these matters when the Bill goes into the Committee stage and not to delay any further this essential legislation which is so needed by Australia and which is so essential to the economic life of this country. 
Debate interrupted. 
I think that the Senate will remember that I did announce last year that it was proposed that all of those tribunals which determine eligibility for repatriation benefits would make available reasons for their decisions. It would seem to be a proper step to be taken so that those who wish to make a further application or an appeal will know precisely why their application or appeal has been rejected. It was not intended that this should be extended to the assessment appeal tribunals, I think for obvious reasons, and it is still not intended that that should be done. The entitlement appeal tribunals started giving reasons for their decisions on 1 June 1974. The repatriation boards, the first tribunals which applicants attend, started to give reasons for their decisions as from 1 January 1975. The remaining tribunal, the Repatriation Commission, will give reasons for its decisions from 1 May 1975. At that time the undertaking of the Government will have been fully carried out. 
-Yes, there have been complaints about the time that has been taken in this matter. If the Senate will bear with me, I would like to explain some of the new procedures which have been introduced and which, it is hoped, will remove the cause for these complaints. In the past, people receiving unemployment benefit have been asked to lodge an income statement each week through the Commonwealth Employment Service. Under the new arrangements which are proposed, people who are not placed in employment when they register as unemployed may, as previously, claim the unemployment benefit. They will be asked to lodge a first income statement at the employment office or agency one week later if they are still seeking work. However, advice about any change in circumstances affecting benefit entitlement should in future be sent directly to the Department of Social Security. In future the second income statement has to be lodged by the beneficiary at the end of the fourth week, instead of every week as was done previously, and further statements have to be lodged at the end of each subsequent fourth week. Forms for this purpose will be sent to all the recipients of the payments by the Department of Social Security. The employment office or agency will arrange for further contact with the unemployed person concerning his prospects of obtaining a job until he or she has been placed in a job. 
This change will mean that the Commonwealth Employment Service will be able to concentrate on its primary role of arranging placements in employment instead of going through all the rigmarole of examining weekly returns from unemployment benefit recipients as to whether or not they have received any income. The Department of Social Security will employ more field officers to ensure that people who were receiving benefits were legitimately entitled to them but this will not mean that the central offices and branch offices will be taking up time over these matters. It is hoped that delays which have taken place in the past will at least be considerably reduced. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I will move: 
That leave be given to introduce a Bill for an Act to provide for payment by Australia of compensation in respect of loss of or damage to property arising out of the Darwin cyclone. 
I am obliged to  Senator Devitt  for asking me this question because it does enable me to clarify an answer which I gave today at a Press conference which I attended and in which I announced the Cabinet decision to introduce legislation to establish an Australian Government insurance office. I think my answer was not as satisfactory as it should have been. The 30-20 rule to which  Senator Devitt  refers requires a life assurance company to invest 30 per cent of its assets in government securities and 20 of them in Australian Government securities if it is to obtain preferential tax treatment on its earnings. 
The proposal which the Government is making regarding the Australian Government insurance office requires the office to pay all taxes and charges generally paid by State and private insurance companies. Consequently it will be required to observe the 30-20 rule like any other life assurance office if it is to obtain favourable tax treatment. The fact that the proposed Australian Government insurance office would not be bound by the Australian Government's other insurance legislation, that is, the Life Insurance Act and the Insurance Act, has no bearing on the fact that the proposed office would be obliged under our proposed legislation to abide by the so-called 30-20 rule. 

 -As Senator DrakeBrockman I know is well aware, because generally the same people who come to see me also go to see him, I have been doing very little else over the past few months but conferring with representatives of insurance companies. In fact, not only have I been conferring with representatives of insurance companies but 2 committees have been established by the Treasurer- one consisting of representatives of life assurance companies and the other consisting of representatives of general insurance companies- to discuss the impact of the establishment of an Australian Government insurance office and the proposed national compensation scheme on these various forms of insurance. This is not contrary to what  Senator Drake-Brockman  would like to have an unsuspecting public believe. This is not part of any diabolical move to introduce a monolithic super-government insurance industry. In fact what we are doing is fulfilling the highest objectives of the private enterprise system, that is, providing competition. The Australian Government believes that if private insurance offices and State governments are able to engage in the field of insurance the Australian Government should be entitled to do so. We believe that the proposed Australian Government insurance office will perform in the field of insurance the same function that the Commonwealth Bank has performed so valuably in the field of banking. That is why we are bringing forward these proposals. 
If the insurance companies generally feel that they have something to fear, I can assure them that what they have to fear is their own weakness, because the proposal which we have and which will be presented to the Parliament later this month with regard to the establishment of the Australian Government insurance office makes it perfectly clear that the office will function on an ordinary commercial basis and that the investments of the Australian Government insurance office, subject to the restrictions which I mentioned earlier, will of necessity have to be in the best interests of policy holders. It will also be covering a field of national interest insurancethose forms of insurance which are unprofitable but socially necessary, as has been found in the case of natural disasters such as the Darwin cyclone and the Brisbane flood- which private insurance offices do not handle. We believe that, contrary to what the private insurance companies have said when they have argued that we should go into the unprofitable business but not into the profitable business, if the Australian Government goes into the insurance business, as we believe it should, it should go not only into the unprofitable business which private operators will not handle but also into the profitable areas as well and compete with them on their own terms, in the same way as the Commonwealth Bank has done in the field of banking. 
-This is a matter on which I would like to make a detailed statement at a later time. If the honourable senator would agree to put the question on notice 1 will see that all this information is tabled for the benefit of all honourable senators. 
-Yes, as a matter of fact. As it happens I was asked a question on this matter at the Press conference and I feel that I did not answer it in the forthright and lucid manner for which I am so highly regarded by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack and other honourable senators on the other side of the chamber. An interdepartmental committee with representatives from some of the most distinguished and highly regarded departments of this Government was established on 3 1 May last year by the Prime Minister to inquire into the proposal that an Australian Government insurance office should be set up. I think that one would have to take the inquiries of that interdepartmental committee as being in the nature of a feasibility study. 
I understand that difficulties are being experienced by a number of general insurance companies, particularly those involved in workers compensation insurance and motor vehicle third party insurance. In fact, these difficulties were epitomised not so many months ago when one of the very big foreign owned insurance companies dismissed a large number of its staff members at its Queensland branch. I must confess that so far no insurance companies have been to see me offering to sell their assets and policies. It is proposed in the Bill which will be presented shortly to establish an Australian Government insurance office that it should have power to purchase State government and private insurance offices or shares in them. I make it quite clear that it is proposed to purchase. The office will function as a normal commercial undertaking. In the same way as existing insurance offices are able to have this power, an Australian Government insurance office would also have the power. I do not know whether the owners of any insurance office will wish to sell to an Australian Government insurance office at any time in the future. That is something which one will learn only when an Australian Government insurance office functions. 
As far as the staff is concerned, there could well be a problem if the private insurance companies or, for that matter, the State insurance offices were to find themselves in any difficulties as a result of the implementation of the national compensation scheme, the establishment of an Australian Government insurance office or as a result of any other problems which they might have. I think we all know that some of the general insurance companies have had considerable problems over recent years. As a Labor Government, we are concerned about this. I have had many talks with representatives of the Australian Insurance Staffs Federation, which is the union which covers most of the administrative and clerical employees of the private insurance companies. I have given an undertaking to them that the Australian Government will do everything it conceivably can to ensure that there is no loss of employment amongst the people who work in the insurance industry. In the event of the establishment of the Australian Government insurance office which I hope will come to fruition, I personally as Minister certainly would strongly advocate priority being given in employment to those people who have experience in insurance offices and who may, for whatever reason, be unemployed at the time of the establishment of the office. 

 -As Senator Baume would know, the relationship between the recipients of repatriation benefits and people under the various hospital and medical benefit funds is a rather complex one. The complexity has increased with the introduction of Medibank, which is a system by which the Government pays for such expenses. It was originally proposed that repatriation beneficiaries should not be recipients of Medibank treatment but should be considered separately, as they are now under the Repatriation Act. However, the matter is being investigated. Honourable senators opposite and members of my Department can see that possibly considerable anomalies could develop in this situation in which 2 free medical services are being provided, one under the Repatriation Act and the other under the general system. I hope to be able to make a report to the Senate in the near future on the precise arrangements which we will make. For the present, it is proposed that the existing arrangements ibr repatriation beneficiaries should continue. 
I recall  Senator Drake-Brockman's  asking the question, but I do not recall giving the answer that he said I gave. I said that the committees had been established to deal with the general insurance industry and life assurance industry and that they had been established by the Treasurer and come within his responsibility. These committees are to inquire into the effect of the establishment of an Australian Government insurance office and the national compensation scheme on both general insurance and life assurance. Any questions relating to the details of the meetings of those committees should be directed to the Treasurer. I also said that I had had extensive discussions with representatives of life assurance and general insurance offices both on the national compensation scheme and on the establishment of an Australian Government insurance office. 1 feel that little profit can be had from further discussing the Australian Government insurance office with them, as the private insurance offices have the unanimous view that they do not want to have such an office established and do not want the competition that an Australian Government insurance office would provide. Having met such a dogmatic view from the representatives of these insurance offices, little purpose is to be served by having further discussions with them unless they can make some concrete, specific proposals rather than criticise generally the whole proposition that such an office should be established. 
It was announced at the time of the Budget that the eligibility for service pensions would be extended to countries which, in fact, were in the British Commonwealth at the time of the conflict in which servicemen from those countries took part with Australian servicemen. For example South African ex-servicemen who fought in the first or second world wars with Australian servicemen and who are resident in this country would be covered, but I imagine there would be a small number of them. The ex-servicemen involved would be predominantly from Britain and New Zealand. It is proposed that appropriate legislation to provide for these payments- that is provided the ex-servicemen have been resident in Australia for 10 years- will be dealt with during this sessional period of the Senate. The payment of service pensions will commence shortly thereafter. 
-When one looks at the returns of some of the major insurance companies in Australia one finds some very interesting figures revealed. In fact, one finds from the most recent annual reports of some companies that about one-third of the premiums which were collected were used to meet commissions and expenses. In the case of Commercial Union Assurance Company of Australia Ltd- one foreign owned insurance company- of premiums of $80. lm which were received in 1973-74, $28.6m, or approximately 36 per cent, went on commissions and expenses. In 1973-74, of the premiums collected by QBE Insurance Ltd 38 per cent was spent on commissions and expenses. In the case of Sun Alliance Insurance Limited $3. 1 m out of $ 10. 1 m collected was spent on commissions and expenses- approximately 33 per cent. This shows, of course, that there is an extremely high overhead involved in the running of these private general insurance companies. 
If one compares the track record of private insurance companies with that of the State insurance offices one finds a quite different picture. In New South Wales, for example, the commissions and expenses amounted to only 8 per cent of the premiums collected by the Government Insurance Office. In Victoria they amounted to only 6 per cent of the premiums collected by the Victorian Government Insurance Office. In Queensland 20 per cent of the premiums collected by the Government Insurance Office went on commissions and expenses. These percentages were considerably lower than those of the allegedly much more efficient private enterprise insurance companies. The high overheads cannot be taken to reflect superior efficiency and in fact the State government insurance offices, by whatever governments they have been established, have been maintained by anti-Labor Party governments as by Labor Party governments and have shown a much higher record of efficiency in providing service to their policy holders than is the case with the private insurance companies. 
-The involvement of the Australian Government in the field of insurance already is and, for the most part, has been for some time very extensive. Defence service homes insurance which covers many hundreds of thousands of policies relating to defence service homes is one of the most substantial insurance undertakings in Australia. The Commonwealth Banking Corporation provides various forms of insurance, particularly householder's insurance. 
It is a Commonwealth instrumentality. I am glad that  Senator Greenwood  said that because when he referred to the Commonwealth Banking Corporation he implied that it was not Commonwealth Government involvement. I hope he will take the same attitude towards the Australian Government insurance office- also a statutory authority- and say that that also is not Commonwealth Government involvement. I appreciate the efforts that  Senator Greenwood  has made to assist the passage of the Bill of which I have given notice. There is also the Export Payments Insurance Corporation which engages in a very specialised type of insurance in relation to export finance and, in co-operation with the Joint Coal Board, which is a joint undertaking of the Australian and New South Wales governments, the Coal Mines Insurance Pty Ltd, engages in insurance in relation to the coal mining industry in New South Wales. 
The substantial extent of insurance activities of the Australian Government and its instrumentalities shows quite clearly that the establishment of an Australian Government insurance office is not some new, sudden and quite eccentric idea which has occurred to this Government. There have been extensive activities in this direction for many years, indeed since insurance was required for large industrial undertakings conducted by the Australian Government and its instrumentalities, such as Qantas Airways Ltd, TransAustralia Airlines and the Australian National Line. What is proposed by the establishment of an Australian Government insurance office is the rationalisation and co-ordination of these activities so that they may be conducted more efficiently. I am pleased to see  Senator Greenwood  nodding his head in agreement. 
1 think that  Senator Bonner's  suggestion has a great deal of merit in it and I will see that it is referred to the responsible Minister. As soon as I have a reply from him I shall advise  Senator Bonner. 
I have obtained the information which  Senator McAuliffe  is seeking. I would like to deal first of all with the question insofar as it applies to life assurance. The Life Insurance Act of 1945 regulates the life insurance industry, and under the Life Insurance Act the Life Insurance Commissioner sets the level of reserves which must be held by insurers in respect of the policies which have been taken out with their offices. This prescription by the Life Insurance Commissioner provides stability to the life assurance industry and, I think, must be regarded as being of assistance to the business of life insurance in general. Life assurance offices are favoured in comparison with other financial institutions by the treatment which is given by the income tax laws to the payment of premiums. Up to $1,200 of personal income is not taxed if paid into life assurance or superannuation. The Coombs Committee estimated that this would have cost the Australian Government approximately $I80m in tax foregone in the financial year 1 974-75. The $ 1 80m which was foregone in tax by the Australian Government must be regarded as being of direct assistance to the life assurance offices. 
This taxation inducement was undoubtedly to a very large extent responsible for the large increase in premiums during the period from 1963-1972. In fact, in 1975 the Life Offices Association of Australia informed the Government that premiums had increased by 17.8 per cent per annum, or 10.4 per cent per annum in real terms- that is if allowance is made for inflation and other factors. This is very largely due to this assistance which is given by way of taxation. Undoubtedly the Government's taxation policies and the provisions in the taxation legislation have been of great financial assistance to the life offices. On the other hand, I think it must be said that the life offices have not had an aggressive investment policy, although it is true that they have had large sums of money available for investment. I think it has been recognised by many commentators- people who are not socialists but who are vitally concerned in the private enterprise sector of the Australian economythat the life offices have had an undue concentration on the building of office blocks and real estate developments in the central business districts of the Australian cities, which have not been of any great advantage to the Australian people as a whole. 
With regard to general insurance, there is a regulation of the general insurance industry under the Insurance Act of 1973. The Act empowers the Government to control entry into general insurance. In fact, the general insurance companies supported the Labor Government's introduction of the Insurance Act because they themselves believed that they were having too much competition, that there were too many flybynight insurance companies appearing- I think that we have seen evidence of those companies ourselves; the matter has been drawn to the attention of the Senate during the last few months- and that it was necessary to regulate the amount of competition that the general insurance companies were having. This is assistance by the Government to the general insurance industry. 
The general insurance companies are now faced with a great problem arising from their liabilities for workers compensation insurance where premiums paid in the past have to be used to meet obligations which may arise in the future. The same also applies to those States where private insurance companies engage in third party motor vehicle insurance. Whether or not the National Compensation Bill which is now before the Senate passes, it is perfectly clear that in the near future- in the next few years- the Australian Government will have to come to the assistance of the general insurance companies which already are in serious difficulties because of their commitments to workers compensation insurance and, to a lesser extent, their commitments in the field of third party motor vehicle insurance. 
-Yes. 1 think that what  Senator Wright  says is perfectly true. That is so. The inflation of claims has arisen for a number of reasons, not only because of the general inflation but also because of the awards which have been given by courts and because of the fact that workers compensation insurance of its own nature creates the problem of meeting commitments which may not arise perhaps for decades after the payment of the premiums. All of these are matters in which the Australian Government either has assisted or is in the process of assisting or will in the future have to assist both life and general insurance companies. 
-I am sorry that  Senator Wright  does not want this important question answered. I am sure that many people are very interested in the effect which the Australian Government insurance office may have on the private insurance companies and the State Government insurance offices. I am sure they will not appreciate the lack of concern and the generally cavalier attitude that  Senator Wright  adopts towards their interests. This is an important matter.  Senator Milliner  very correctly has asked this question and I am delighted to assist him. 
It is not the view of the Government that the establishment of an Australian Government insurance office will have any effect on private insurance companies or the State Government insurance offices other than to provide competition. No special privileges will be given to the Australian Government insurance office. It will be subject to all the taxation requirements and all the restrictions which the Australian legislation provides for life and general offices which exist at present. The only effect which the Australian Government insurance office will have on private and State Government insurance offices will be to give them competition. I am sure that members of the Liberal Party, committed as they are to competition, will welcome the addition of more competition to this field in which they are so interested. 
-The Senate will remember that I made an announcement that provision would be made for compensation for personal injury to people who suffered in cyclone Tracy. So far, applications have not been called, but an application form has been prepared after consultation with the Australian Medical Association, which has been most helpful in making suggestions as to what sort of information should be sought in the application forms. The appropriations for the payment of this compensation have been dealt with by other legislation, and it is expected that the Government will be paying out about $300,000 this year and $150,000 next year. In the near future we will advertise for people to apply for compensation for personal injury in the same way as has been done with compensation for property damage. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Darwin Cyclone Damage Compensation Bill 1975 provides the legislative authority for the payment of compensation in respect of loss of or damage to property arising out of the cyclone which passed through Darwin on 25 December 1974. The total cost of compensation is currently estimated at $5 8m. These moneys are to be made available under 2 separate appropriations- an initial amount of $25m under Appropriation Bill (No. 5) 1974-75, and the remaining $33m under Supply Bill (No. 1) 1975-76. Both Bills were introduced into the House on 8 April 1975. Separate appropriations are required, as it would not be practicable to disburse the full amount before the end of this financial year. Moneys to pay compensation for death and personal injury suffered by persons as a result of the cyclone have already been provided for in Appropriation Act (No. 4) 1974-75. 
The current estimate of $58m was derived from a nation-wide survey, not by my Department, of households and organisations which were in Darwin on Christmas Day 1974. Honourable senators will recognise that a survey taken soon after the disaster cannot be expected to be completely accurate. For example, some people may have forgotten some possessions which were lost, or placed too low a value on others. Despite a major advertising campaign, advice and assistance by my departmental officers to those responding to the survey, in Darwin, in the States and in some provincial centres, there is room for error. However, I can assure honourable senators that my Department has gone to great pains to provide me with the best estimate available. 
I stress the importance of early passage of this Bill, as over 3 months have elapsed since Darwin was struck by Cyclone Tracy. Although a great deal has already been achieved in rehabilitating the city and its people, very much more remains to be done. Many people are separated from their homes in Darwin and their usual employment; many are in difficult circumstances. The suffering these people have undergone is immeasurable, and many now face an uncertain future. In view of this, my Department is already engaged on the major task of inviting, collating and assessing claims for compensation. 
It is a tribute to the Australian people that they have responded so swiftly and generously to the plight of their fellow citizens in Darwin through relief appeals and volunteer work. It is fitting that they expect an equally swift and generous response from their Government. I am advised that any attempt to present in greater detail, in this Bill now before the Senate, how the $58m is to be distributed would considerably delay payment of compensation which in so many cases is essential to some degree of rehabilitation. Further, detailed legislation in this matter could in many cases inadvertently bind those whose task it will be to apportion compensation to decisions which may not be in keeping with the real interests of justice and equity. This is not meant to imply the absence of principles whereby these moneys are to be distributed- as broad principles will be used- but rather the need for a high degree of flexibility and discretion if this operation is to be just and effective. 
The survey undertaken by my Department shows that approximately 50 per cent of the damage to property was not covered by insurance. Apart from suggesting serious deficiencies in the insurance arrangements in this country- and I say that notwithstanding the fact that the insurance industry has given valuable assistance to my Department in Darwin, and, as I am advised, their rapid response to settling the claims of their clients- the magnitude of the damage points to the Australian Government as the only possible source of adequate financial aid. The fact that Darwin is located in an Australian Territory places on the Australian Government the extra responsibilities which would normally be borne by a State government. 
My proposal for compensation in respect of property in Darwin is to pay 50 per cent of uninsured loss and damage. Property which was under-insured will attract compensation but only in regard to that part of the value of the property which was not insured. The effect of a 50 per cent payment will be to compensate the uninsured to a reasonable degree, but at the same time to put persons who did carry some insurance cover closer to recovering their full losses. 1 do not believe that these principles will provide a disincentive for people to insure in the future, and the Government has been mindful of this in putting this proposal forward. 
Compensation is to be based on the market value of items on 24 December 1974. Eligibility for compensation will be determined solely on the basis of uninsured loss or damage having occurred. No means test is to be applied. Assessment, determination and payment of claims is to be the responsibility of my Department. Examiners in the office set up by my Department in Darwin will apply uniform criteria to all claims. Where the full amount of a claim cannot be allowed, claimants will be so advised, and invited to furnish proof of possession and loss or damage. Meanwhile, they will receive early settlement of a portion of their claim. Where further evidence is produced cases will be reviewed and adjustments made where appropriate. 
Upper limits to amounts of compensation have been established which, I believe, strike a balance between worthwhile compensation for the individual and organisations on the one hand and the responsible expenditure of public funds on the other. There is an upper limit of $25,000 payable for loss and damage to private dwellings and any loss and damage occurring on the property of a primary producer. The word 'dwelling' will be interpreted broadly and will encompass boats and caravans where these were used as a primary dwelling. There is an upper limit of $50,000 payable for business premises, plant, equipment and stock. There is an upper limit of $5,000 for personal possessions, including motor vehicles, furniture and fittings. 
The sense of these proposals is to recompense people partially for what they have lost. They are not aimed at the reconstruction of Darwin nor the resettlement of those who were resident there on 25 December 1974 in their former circumstances. The reconstruction of Darwin is a separate endeavour being handled by my colleague the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson).  Resettlement is a decision for individuals themselves to make and my colleague the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has been active in providing assistance in this regard. 
The compensation proposals have been very carefully considered by an interpedartmental committee and by the Government. They are a departure from previous Australian Government initiatives in response to natural disasters. Unlike previous disasters, Darwin is a unique situation. As I have already mentioned, it is situated in an Australian Territory for which the Australian Government is responsible. Geographically, it is isolated with no near-lying city of any size from which its residents could receive support nor to which they could be relocated after the disaster. Thousands had to be evacuated from the city, some without choice, many of whom have as yet been unable to return. The almost total destruction caused by the cyclone was of a kind unknown in Australia. It was in every sense a major disaster even by international standards. As such, this situation calls for unique measures. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Withers)  adjourned. 
I am afraid that this is not a question that I am able to answer without reference to the Minister for Health. I realise it is an important question. I shall ask the Minister for Health to give me an answer to it as soon as possible. 
-This question is largely one for my colleague the Treasurer as the regulation of the finances of insurance companies is a matter which falls within the ambit of the Life Insurance Act. General insurance companies fall within the ambit of the Insurance Act. The matters to which  Senator Drake-Brockman  referred are requirements to ensure the solvency of life assurance offices so that the position of policy holders will be protected. State government insurance offices which engage in the life assurance business are not subject to the requirements which  Senator Drake-Brockman  mentioned, for constitutional reasons and be&gt;cause the life policies of the State government insurance offices are guaranteed by the respective States. It would not be proposed that such restrictions be placed on an Australian Government insurance office because the Government clearly does not need to satisfy itself whether it has enough money to meet its commitments, as it would need to be satisfied with regard to the establishment of a new private life assurance office. 
The Government is satisfied that it is proper for it to engage in all forms of insurance. As  Senator Drake-Brockman  said, it is not intended in the early stages of the establishment of an Australian Government insurance office, as is shown by the quite small allocation of funds which is proposed for the office, that it would be engaging in the near future in life assurance. I can assure  Senator Drake-Brockman  that 1 will continue to advise the Senate- and I notice  Senator Greenwood  agrees that I always do- in matters in which I am engaged and that the Senate will not be caught unawares by any activities in which the Australian Government Insurance Office engages. 
I am glad that  Senator Jessop  has reminded me of the answer I gave yesterday, because he will recall that when I was answering the question I pointed out that in Victoria the Government Insurance Office has to use only 6 per cent of the premiums it receives for commissions and expenses; that in New South Wales the Government Insurance Office spends only some 8 per cent of the premiums it receives on commissions and other administrative expenses, and that in Queensland, the figure is only 20 per cent. These compare with figures well over 30 per cent and approaching 40 per cent in the case of some of the major Australian general insurance offices, particularly some of those which are multi-national corporations, foreignowned insurance companies, which one would have thought, with their wide experience of operating throughout the world under foreign ownership would have been able to acquire quite a deal of efficiency. It has to be agreed that the South Australian Government Insurance Office is running at a loss, but what one has to take into account in considering the South Australian Office is that it is a very new office, it has been functioning for only a few years and it has not had time to establish itself on a competitive basis, quite unlike the case, for example, of Sun Alliance Insurance Limited which is the descendant of the oldest insurance office in the world and yet requires something like nearly 40 per cent of its premium income to pay for its commissions and other expenses. 
The other factor that has to be taken into account in South Australia is that the South Australian Government Insurance Office is the only insurance office in that State which provides third party motor vehicle insurance. None of the private insurance companies in that State will handle motor vehicle third party insurance, and I believe that what has happened in South Australia typifies the attitudes of private insurance companies. They want governments, whether they be State governments or the Federal Government, to take the unprofitable, socially necessary insurance and suffer the losses that are involved in it, but they want to keep the lucrative insurance for themselves and then, having done that, they want to say that because the State Government Insurance Office in South Australia is handling necessary business that they will not handle, this shows that the South Australian Government Insurance Office is inefficient. This shows completely the falsity and the hypocrisy of the arguments used by these people. 
-The matter which  Senator Coleman  has raised has excited considerable interest in Western Australia and, I do not doubt, throughout other parts of the country. Many people are very anxious about cancer and possible cures or remedies for cancer. Some year or so ago 2 machines, as  Senator Coleman  has said, were imported from West Germany. These Tronado machines were installed at one of the government hospitals in Western Australia under the supervision of a  Dr Holt  who, I understand, is quite a distinguished practitioner in the field of radiology. 
-Radiotherapy, yes. There has subsequently been quite considerable controversy- I, as a layman, certainly am not able to comment on the merits of it- as to how effective the Tronado machine is. Very strong claims have been made in favour of the Tronado machine by  Dr Holt  and by other people who are unconnected with it. Only recently, an unfortunate sufferer of cancer was sent to Perth from Paris by a radiologist in Paris who apparently had heard of the machine and had some faith in it. On the other hand, the use of the machine has been condemned by a number of people who are certainly at least equally as distinguished in this field. Included in this group is the National Health and Medical Research Council which has been regarded as an authoritative body on the matter. 
I would agree with  Senator Coleman  that we need to have some clarification of this question. Certainly, the present position is not very satisfactory. It must be most distressing to people who are suffering from this complaint, or have relatives who are sufferers, to know that one group of people, who certainly are not quacks, are advocating the use of the Tronado machine and another equally qualified group of people are saying that it is useless or in fact harmful. 
I shall certainly refer this matter to the Minister for Health and ask him to have his Department make an inquiry into the report of the National Health and Medical Research Council. I am not quite sure how extensive his powers are in preventing the use of the machines in Western Australia but, clearly, the public generally needs to have a report from the highest level on this matter. I do not know whether this will resolve the controversy. But I think the Government does have a responsibility to put this question as far as it can out of the area of dispute and, one might say, bitterness which seems to have developed about it in recent months. 
I think that  Senator Missen  is quite right in quoting this advertisement to us. I think that the Australian public would be very surprised indeed if they were to learn the extent of the subsidies which are given by the Government to all sorts of people, including insurance companies. I think that it is only fair that some of the less privileged elements in the community should be receiving the same subsidies which some of the wealthiest elements in the community have been receiving for many years indeed. One of the means whereby this has been attempted to be done is through the Australian Assistance Plan which has already played a very valuable role in bringing to the people of Australia the opportunity to participate in their government in a way which they have never had in the past. Certainly the Australian Assistance Plan will be constantly subject to scrutiny by the Parliament. In fact, it will be scrutinised later today at a meeting of an Estimates Committee where  Senator Baume  probably will have some questions to ask me. I can assure  Senator Missen  that this great effort to democratise Australia will not in any way diminish whatever democratic practices are already engaged in- by the Parliament of this country. 
I think that the answer to both parts of the question could well be yes. The Department already has considerable compensation responsibilities, but I think it would be only fair to say that for the most part the appointments which are taking place at the moment are with the prospect in view of there being at least some sort of" national compensation scheme. It is our view that we cannot engage in the proper study or the proper preparation for a national compensation scheme unless competent staff are already employed by the Department. If, as a result of all this, the Parliament rejected any national compensation scheme whatsoever- I would regard that as being highly unlikely- obviously other arrangements could be made for those people who have been appointed. I believe that it would be quite irresponsible for the Government to contemplate the introduction of a very far-reaching scheme of this kind without already having had some people made available to a department which, if I may say so, is very seriously short staffed at the senior level. It is in order to overcome the problems which are involved in adequate preparation that these appointments are being made. 
I am unable to answer this question out of my head. Obviously it is a matter of detailed administration of the Department of Social Security. I suggest that the honourable senator put the question on the notice paper so that a detailed reply can be obtained from the Minister. 
I am rather surprised that  Senator Greenwood,  who is usually so charitable, should ask a question of that kind. I am sure he would not suggest that patronage would be exercised by any Minister in this Government. I can only refer the question to the Minister for Social Security. I do not know what legislation he envisages. I think it would be appreciated that legislation of a narrow, circumscribing nature is not entirely appropriate to the administration of a scheme such as the Australian Assistance Plan. The Parliament is a forum in which questions relating to it can be raised. As I said earlier, they will be raised this afternoon in the appropriate estimates committee when the estimates for the Department of Social Security are considered. I will refer  Senator Greenwood's  question to the Minister and obtain for him an answer as to whether some narrow legislation of the bureaucratic type which  Senator Greenwood  would like is to be introduced. 
I am well aware of the cyclones to which  Senator Drake-Brockman  refers. Both of these cyclones occurred within the State of Western Australia, the Government of which would have primary responsibility for the matters that are involved. So far as I know, no action has been taken by the Western Australian Government to engage in any form of compensation. The position of the Australian Government would be that, as has been the case in similar circumstances in which unfortunate events of this kind have occurred within the States, we would await any submissions that might be made to us by the relevant State Government- in this case the Western Australian Government- and, if that Government proposed to do something itself and intended to seek assistance, then any proposition put to us would of necessity be examined on its merits. 
-Yes, I recollect very clearly giving that assurance. I fail to see how the establishment of an Australian Government insurance office, which will provide work presumably for people who are not working and will create jobs in this proposed office, will cause other people to lose their jobs. Even if one assumes that only the same volume of insurance business will be transacted as was transacted previously, and all that the Australian Government insurance office would do would be to take some of that business away from someone else, there would still be the same number of people presumably involved in that work. If, as is hoped and expected, the Australian Government insurance office, through engaging in new fields of insurance, expands the present amount of insurance which is written in Australia of course there will be more jobs available. 
I do not take awfully seriously the claims that are made by some of the insurance companies about dismissals of staff or the potential dismissals of staff. 1 can remember that not many months ago the Commercial Union Assurance Company of Australia Limited in Queensland dismissed a large number of members of its staff and made a statement at the time that it had done this because of the Australian Government's proposed national compensation scheme. To this the Australian Insurance Staffs Federation, the industrial organisation of employees in the insurance industry,, was able very convincingly to reply that, first of all, the national compensation scheme had not come into effect so it was very difficult to know how the company was losing business to a scheme which did not exist. Secondly, all of the workers compensation insurance in Queensland was conducted by the State Government Insurance Office of Queensland and none of it was conducted by the Commercial Union Company. So if I were  Senator Sheil  I would look with very close scrutiny at the arguments that are put to him by the insurance companies. If  Senator Sheil  has any doubts about this matter, I suggest that he sees me or the Australian Insurance Staffs Federation which is well able to look after the interests of its members. 
The suggestions contained in  Senator Carrick  's question sound very sensible to me but the honourable senator will appreciate that I am not the Minister who has responsibility for these matters. I shall see that the question is referred immediately to the Minister for Health. My view would be that overall the propositions he has put forward ought to be given very favourable consideration by the Government. 
It is not proposed that there should be any change in the administrative arrangements of the Department. The change in name resulted from a suggestion from  Dr Cass,  the Minister for Environment. He consideredand what he put forward was agreed to- that the title 'Environment and Conservation' was unnecessarily cumbersome, that the conservation referred to in the title 'Environment and Conservation' was intended to mean conservation of the environment, and that it was a rather long winded title which caused some confusion. I remember that one day one honourable senator in this chamber, without attempting in any way to be satirical, referred to the Department as the Department of the Environment and Conversation. In fact, in 1973, when the Australian Labor Party amended its platform, it amended the section which previously had been entitled 'Environment and Conservation' to 'The 
Environment'. It is considered that this is perfectly meaningful and that nothing is added by the other words which only make the title longer without saying anything extra. 
-The Defence Service Homes Division is administered not by me but by the Minister for Housing and Construction. I am afraid that I cannot answer the question, but I will see that it is referred to the Minister for Housing and Construction so that he can give an answer to  Senator Bonner. 
-The distressing occurrence of which  Senator McLaren  has reminded us is similar to an occurrence in another State- Western Australia- when the Labor Government there attempted to broaden the activities of the Western Australian State Government Insurance Office to cover life assurance. This was also rejected not only by the Liberal Party but also by the Country Party in the Legislative Council in that State. I would hope, however, that honourable senators in this chamber would adopt a more national constructive attitude than their parochial colleagues in the mausoleums in the State parliaments in Adelaide and Perth. Despite many distressing experiences down the years I retain some faith in human nature, even in Liberal Party senators. I hope that at least some day before I leave here I will see justice done by Opposition senators. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Thirty-five Regional Councils for Social Development had been established to implement the Australian Assistance Plan up until February, 1975. 
and (3) The following table sets out where Regional Councils for Social Development have been established, the maximum funds allocated to them and the purposes for which the funds were provided. It is not expected that all regions will require the maximum allocation in the current year. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Community Development Officers are needed to encourage participation and initiative by the community itself to take action on social problems and issues by mobilising people into groups and organisations with an awareness of community needs. 
Sections 6.3-6.7 of the Guidelines for the Pilot Programme of the Australian Assistance Plan, which have been distributed to Members and Senators, refer to the functions and qualifications of Community Development Officers which require a range of experience and skills not limited to persons with tertiary qualifications. It is anticipated therefore that there will be no difficulty in recruiting the required number of Community Development Officers at the present time. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Public contact staff of the Department of Social Security undergo training to ensure that they are able to provide information on benefits available. In addition, there are regular half day seminars to keep public contact staff informed of the latest information about benefits. 
Welfare philosophy, human relations and communication skills are also covered in training courses for public contact staff. 
In the last 1 8 months, over 400 Departmental officers have undergone these forms of training. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
In announcing the introduction of the Appeals Tribunals it was stated that the 'The Tribunals in each State would consist of two independent members, usually a lawyer and a welfare worker and a full time member seconded from the Department'. 
The Departmental Officers were chosen as members of the Tribunals because of their technical expertise in the area of assessment of Benefits and Pensions. They are: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Amendments to the National Health Act, passed by Parliament during the current sittings, give legislative authority for the implementation of a home dialysis scheme and the provision of stoma appliances free of charge to those who need them. 
The full details of the home dialysis scheme have yet to be developed and the Australian Government has made available in the interim a special grant of $310,000 to be distributed among the States to ensure continuity of treatment of home dialysis patients until 30 June 1975. By then, arrangements are expected to have been concluded with the States for the scheme to be run on a permanent basis and home dialysis machines and other special equipment will be supplied free of charge by the Australian Government upon application from a Renal Director of a recognised dialysis transplant centre. 
The provision of stoma appliances free of charge to all who need them is being investigated by the Department of Health. It is expected that these investigations will be completed within the next few weeks and that the scheme will be in operation soon after. 
The Government will ensure that both home dialysis and stoma appliances are provided without rationing of services to those in the community who need them as was announced by the Treasurer in his Budget Speech in September 1 974. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The basis on which the provision of Australian Government funds are provided under the five year Hospitals Development Program is that financial assistance will be directed to total State programs submitted by the various States rather than individual hospital projects. 
In the case of New South Wales an initial grant of $8,830,000 will be made available in 1974-75 for the development of public hospital facilities included in the approved hospitals works program for New South Wales. Because of the urgent need to develop hospital facilities in the Western Suburbs of Sydney, it was proposed that $ 1 , 830,000 of the initial grant would be required to bring forward the development of hospital facilities at Westmead, Campbelltown and Gosford. 
I present for the information of honourable senators a report by the Temporary Assistance Authority on consumer electronic equipment and components. 
I present for the information of honourable senators the report on secondhand railway locomotives of the Industries Assistance Commission dated 20 February 1975. 
-On 27 February,  Senator Wright  asked me a question, as Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, concerning the appropriation for expenditure on Medibank advertising. I now have received an answer from the Minister for Social Security to the question, and it reads: 
An amount of $2,285,000 was appropriated by the Appropriation Act (No. 1) 1974-75 under Division 530-2-09 (Department of Social Security- Publicity). Within that amount, provision was made for- 
$1,080,000 for media campaigns to prepare and inform the public how the new health plan will operate. Covered in these campaigns will be information concerning the methods of claiming health insurance and such points as options of recoupment under the scheme. 
$500,000 for explanatory leaflets, including foreign language issues, explaining the Australian Health Insurance Plan. 
I have seen the statement, as has the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. I have also seen a statement which is attributed to a  Mr Sharpies,  a spokesman of the Prudential Assurance Co. Ltd., who said that all insurance companies take account of the racial origins of people in the provision of life assurance policies. Apparently not only do they do that, but the Prudential Assurance Co. also uses such outmoded and objectionable terms as 'halfcastes' and 'quarter-castes' in its intructions to its agents. I believe it is appalling that life assurance offices which receive substantial financial benefit from the taxation policies of the Government, supported by all the people of Australia, should discriminate against those people of Australia who do not happen to have the pallid complexion that  Mr Sharpies  has. Certainly the policy of the Australian Government insurance office, when it is established, will be to see that all residents of this country are treated equally. I know  Senator Greenwood  finds this amusing. I am sure this will be reflected in his attitude to the Racial Discrimination Bill and other legislation which comes before the Senate. We on this side of the Senate do not find it amusing. I can assure all honourable senators that the Australian Government insurance office will see that there will be no racial discrimination in the provision of policies for any resident of this country who applies for them. 
I was unaware that there had been any increased estimate of $200m in cost.  Senator Sheil  seems to be privy to information that I do not have. Of course, the Government is concerned about cost. This is indeed one of the reasons why we are proposing a national compensation scheme- so that we can eliminate the costs that are at present involved in litigation, the administrative costs and the costs of conducting tribunals and so that we can eliminate the costs in human suffering, which is more important still to all of those people who are at present suffering severe disabilities and are completely uncompensated under the existing law. 
-The Government has not changed its mind about the abolition of the means test. In fact legislation will shortly be coming before the Senate to lower the age at which the means test is applicable. I might comment in passing that I find it rather curious that  Senator Townley  and other honourable senators who on the one hand wish to tell us that the Government is engaging in excessive expenditure, within the very same breath tell us that we ought to be spending more money on something else. I wish they would make up their minds what they want us to do. Do they want us to save money or abolish the means test? 
I do not believe that there should be any delay provided that the Bill that is at present before the Senate is passed with some dispatch. The longer it takes to pass the Bill, the longer it will take before the Government will be able to make payments to those people who suffered loss or damage to personal property in the cyclone. I hope all honourable senators take account of that fact when the Bill comes before the Senate once again for debate. 
I am very pleased that  Senator Baume  asked me this question. I think that he has asked it for the purpose of supporting those private insurance companies which have imposed these restrictions in the past. I think that before he did this perhaps he should have had a word with  Mr Sharpies  of the Prudential Assurance Company Limited. I do not think  Mr Sharpies  would agree with  Senator Baume.  In his statement  Mr Sharpies  said that the clauses which referred to racial origin were drawn up in 1969 and he went on to say: 'They should not be in the book and they will not be there in the next reprint'. So apparently  Senator Baume  thinks that racial restrictions ought to be applied which the spokesman for the Prudential Assurance Company has said should not be applied. 
I do not know whether it is a fact that Aborigines have the characteristics to which  Senator Baume  referred. Certainly the Australian Government insurance office will conduct itself on the normal actuarial basis. But I say this: I do not believe the proper approach to questions of differences within society is on a racial basis. I do not believe the pseudo-scientific drivel that was produced by the Nazis about Jews having long noses and all the graphs that were produced to show how they were inferior to gentiles. I do not believe that the same ought to be applied to what the Prudential Assurance Company describes so elegantly as half-castes, quarter-castes, and so on in the booklet which it distributed. I can assure  Senator Baume  that so far as I am concerned there will be no restrictions based on the racial origins of any person with regard to the granting of policies by the Australian Government insurance office, that any applications for policies made by any persons will be judged on the characteristics of the applicants themselves. If there are any particular characteristics about an applicant's family which are of some medical interest they will be studied. But certainly it would be completely abhorrent to this Government, and something which would not be done by this Government, to start off with the presumption that half-castes, quarter-castes and people of coloured complexions and so on are going to be ab initio placed in some underprivileged or deprived position as compared with their white fellow citizens of Australia. 
-On 16 April 1975,  Senator Bonner  asked me a question as Minister representing the Minister for Social Security concerning consideration being given to granting supplementary assistance, presently payable to pensioners who are paying rent or occupying board and lodgings, to pensioners who are purchasing their own homes. I have received the following answer: 
Pensioners who own or who are purchasing their own homes already receive a substantial concession in that the value of their properties are disregarded in the application of the means test. 
However the Government is aware that many such people are finding it increasingly difficult to cope with expenses such as rates and maintenance. The Social Welfare Commission's Committee of Inquiry into Aged Persons' Housing, and the Poverty Inquiry are both considering the needs of pensioner home owners and reports are expected from each of these bodies this year. 
You may be assured that when the reports are received the Government will give careful consideration to the recommendations they contain. 
-As I do not have an answer to this question readily available I ask the honourable senator to place the question on the notice paper. 
It is clear that farmers are particularly prone to hazards to which people in other occupations are not subject, such as drought, flood and hail - 
I cannot think of an adequate policy which would cover that hazard. It is necessary for them I believe, and the Government believes, that some insurance should be provided to cover these calamities which can affect them from time to time. So far as crop insurance is concerned, Australia does not rank favourably with at least some comparable countries. In fact, in the United States of America, a citadel of what is rather euphemistically described as free enterprise, Canada, Sweden and France, the crop insurance cover available to farmers is considerably better than that which is available to farmers in Australia. It would seem that over the years, particularly in view of the fact that Australia to a very large extent is an agricultural country, the insurers could have done a great deal more to provide this sort of cover than they have done. In fact very little has been done although there is at the moment some sort of experimental scheme in the State of Western Australia in the field of crop insurance. Because the private insurance industry has been so reluctant to go into this field it is proposed that when an Australian Government Insurance Office has been established, one of the first things which will be investigated by it is the provision of crop insurance. 
So far as livestock insurance is concerned, I think one would have to be fair and say that throughout the world provision for this form of insurance would seem to be rather unsatisfactory from the point of view of farmers and that the situation in Australia does not differ very greatly from that in any other country. The Government certainly does take action to protect other industries. Very considerable subsidies are given to a great many industries and it would not seem unreasonable that we ought to be providing some assistance to the farmers in this country by way of insurance for their livestock. These are matters which provide one of the most fundamental reasons for the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office. It certainly would be premature at this stage to say dogmatically that crop and livestock insurance could be provided on an ordinary commercial basis. It may well be that crop and livestock insurance would have to be provided under the national interest provisions of the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill. 
-Senator Greenwood says that there would not be competition. I agree with that remark. It may well be that the community will have to bear some responsibility for providing crop and livestock insurance. I would not run away from that possibility. We provide all sorts of assistance and subsidies for other people engaged in various industries and it does not seem to be unreasonable that at least there ought to be some very close investigation of the provision of crop and livestock insurance for Australian farmers. Coming back to the question of crop insurance, I repeat that in the United States of America, Canada, France and Sweden there is already a much better situation for farmers than there is in Australia. These are matters which are going to be dealt with by the Government and the necessity to provide these facilities for Australian farmers is one of the most important reasons for the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office. 
As honourable senators would appreciate, I always have a very clear recollection of any question that  Senator Martin  asks me. However, despite the inspiration of such an occasion, I would not be able to anticipate what the results of any inquiry may be. This is a matter for the Minister of Social Security and I shall refer the question to him for an early answer for  Senator Martin. 
I must admit that I do remember the question very clearly indeed and I do remember saying at the time that  Mr Justice  Toose had been asked whether he could present his report to the Parliament by 3 1 March. Since then I have had a number of conversations with  Mr Justice  Toose. I understand that he has had some difficulties in completing the report by 3 1 March, but he assures me that in the very near future the report will be made available and presented to the Parliament. 
I have read the letter from  Mr Grose  who is the Managing Director of the Manufacturers Mutual Insurance Ltd and 

 President of the Australian Insurance Association and, if I may say so, one of the most reasonable representatives of the insurance industry with whom I have done business.  Mr Grose  has argued that because the Australian Government Insurance Office would not be subject to the provisions of the Insurance Act 1973 it would be placed at an unfair advantage compared with the private general insurance companies. I think it must be said that already the State government insurance offices are not subject to the provisions of the Insurance Act. I have not heard it argued so far that they are operating with an unfair advantage over the private insurance companies. 
I am aware of that. I know that constitutionally they cannot be subject to it. Regardless of the reason, they are not subject to it. The point I am making is that nobody has argued that the State government insurance offices have an unfair advantage over the private insurance companies. The Australian Government Insurance Office would not be subject to the solvency requirements because clearly, in the same way as the State government insurance offices are guaranteed by the various State governments, the Australian Government Insurance Office would be guaranteed by the Australian Government. Such solvency requirements would be quite patently absurd. The insurance industry and the organisation of which  Mr Grose  is the  President  supported the establishment of the Insurance Act 1973 because it prevented the existence of fly-by-night companies of which we have seen a great many in Australia in recent years. The actions which were taken by the Australian Labor Party Government were of considerable benefit to the general insurance industry. I find it rather strange that the industry should now say that it is in some way hampered and hindered by the Insurance Act. I would be very interested to hear from the Australian Insurance Association some proposition that the Insurance Act 1973 be repealed. I would imagine that would be the last thing it would want. 
I know it has never suggested that. That is precisely the point I am making. Of course it has never suggested that the Insurance Act be repealed. The reason it has not suggested that the Insurance Act be repealed - 
I present for the information of honourable senators reports on chain saws and chain saw engines and on certain plastic products of the Temporary Assistance Authority dated 1 1 March 1975 and 1 8 April 1975 respectively. 
I recall some lines that I think were written by T. S. Eliot. I hope I do not misquote them but if I do I am sure that  Senator Jessop,  with his experience as a life underwriter, will be able to correct me. The  words are to the  following effect: and that is the way the world will end, not with a bang but with a whimper. That is the way in which the war in Vietnam has ended and it is the way in which the policy of the Liberal Party and the Country Party in relation to that war has ended. Instead of honourable senators opposite standing in the Parliament and telling us why they are so proud of their record in that war, why they believe it was justified to have some 500 young Australians and countless numbers of Vietnamese killed in that war, they would rather, as  Senator Everett  has told us, convert this Senate into a provincial court of petty sessions haggling about a few words in a couple of cables. I do not intend to waste the time of the Senate rehashing what was in those cables other than to say that what the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  said was completely correct- that the statements which were in those communications were substantially the same. The statements were to the effect that breaches of the Paris Accords were being committed by both sides involved in the conflict and that the Australian representatives in Hanoi and Saigon should use whatever good offices they were able to use to reduce those breaches. 
I am surprised- I must say that I am hard to surprise but even I am surprised- that the Liberal Party would want to raise the matter of deceit with regard to the war in Vietnam, particularly in view of the recent issues of the 'National Times' in which there have been documented matters which I think were known to many of us, although not all of those matters were known to all of us for many years. I refer to the record of deceit and dishonesty by the Liberal Party and the Country Party- or the National Country Party or whatever its current alias happens to be- and their now defunct appendage, the Australian Democratic Labor Party, in order to involve Australia in that war in Vietnam. 
When I say that the war in Vietnam has ended not with a bang but with a whimper so far as this Parliament is concerned, precisely the same thing has happened in Vietnam. If anything has occurred to prove that those of us who said that the Provisional Revolutionary Government of Vietnam represented the people of Vietnam were right, it is the events which have taken place over the last month or so inside the unfortunate country of South Vietnam where, upon the departure of the American forces and the forces of America's satellites, we have seen a total collapse of that so-called Government in Saigon. 
I would advise  Senator Jessop  to stick to life underwriting and marching around with his fellow insurance company employees rather than to get involved in these complex matters otherwise he is going to find it very serious if he flogs a policy around here. What did we see in the dying hours of the so-called Saigon Government? What did we see of those heroic defenders of democracy? We saw both of them doing the scoot as fast as their legs could carry them, unlike Ho Chi Minh, unlike Pham Van Dong, unlike General Giap, who never ran away but who stayed and fought, whether one agrees or disagrees with their policies. How did they go? We were told that General Thieu, the  President  of that bogus government in Saigon, tried to get rid of all the gold reserves of his so-called government and that the international airline would not carry the money out of the country. He is one hero. Then there is Air Vice-Marshal Ky who was once the  President  and who was wined and dined and hosted and toasted as a national leader of liberation when he came to Australia. Apparently now he is in Los Angeles looking for a job as a taxi-driver. As he left Saigon he said, as part of the whimper which has surrounded the total defunct state in which the so-called Saigon Government found itself, that his own  President,  Thieu, was a crook who was stealing money. Those are not our words, those are the words of Air ViceMarshal Ky when talking about so-called  President  Thieu. 
We are very proud of our record on the Vietnam war all of the way through. We are proud of our opposition to the conscripting of young Australians to go and be killed. We are proud of the fact that we stood up in this Parliament against Liberal and Country Party senators and members of the House of Representatives who declined to serve when they were of military age but who showed their patriotism by conscripting their fellow countrymen to go off and be killed and injured. We have heard those people speaking heroically here. We have a former AttorneyGeneral who sent out the Commonwealth Police to arrest those men who with courage refused to go and fight in that filthy war in which we should never have been involved. We are proud of that record and we are proud of our record since we became a government. We are proud of our Foreign Minister. We are proud of our Prime Minister. We are proud of the fact that we have diplomatic relations with China and that we are taking some steps to see that there is no longer warfare in that area but that there will be peace by way of negotiation. 
I am completely proud of my record, but if I were the honourable senator I would not be too proud of my record. If I were the honourable senator I would have volunteered. I have never been in the position of conscripting other people to go and fight my battles for me while I sat safely at home in Australia. Neither has any other member of the 
Labor Party sitting in this Parliament done that. I do not want any lectures from  Senator Greenwood  or anybody else in the Liberal Party or the Country Party about honesty and decency. If they had had honesty and decency they would have been the first ones to put on their uniforms and go up there and fight instead of sending out police to arrest those young Australians who refused to go and fight. We are proud of our record with regard to China. We are proud of the fact that we established diplomatic relations with the Government of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam- the Government which represents the mass of the people of that country. 
I have not been in South Vietnam, so I can rely only on the reports that I have received to the effect that there was a constant state of tension in Saigon and that it was recognised that great masses of people in Saigon and in the surrounding areas never gave one atom of allegiance to the Saigon Government. They regarded it as a bogus regime imposed upon them by a foreign power. I have been in Hanoi, however. I was in Hanoi in 1973 just after the genocidal bombing of Hanoi and Haiphong by the B52s of the United States Air Force, and I do know that one could walk around anywhere through the streets of Hanoi and Haiphong at any time of the day or night in complete safety, that one did not need to have armed police on every corner, that one would not have known there was a war on, apart from the fact that there were air raid shelters and that every now and then a convoy of troops would move through that beleaguered and smashed city. 
One would not need to be pyschic to know as one walked around the streets of Hanoi that the people of Hanoi completely supported their Government, and they supported it because it was led by people who had led the resistance of the Vietnamese people against those who tried to impose alien regimes on them- the French, the Japanese and the Americans. Those leaders are the people who defeated the corrupt clique in Saigon- the Thieus and the Kys- and not the Russian arms or the Chinese arms of which the amount, compared with what was provided by the United States of America, was microscopic. One of the first papers that was issued by the United States Administration concerning its intervention in Vietnam referred to the weapons that had been captured from the forces fighting for the so-called Vietcong, the National Liberation Front, and only 2V4 per cent of those weapons were manufactured in a country with a communist government, such as the Soviet Union, China or Czechoslovakia. The remainder of the arms either were primitive, home-made weapons, weapons which had been captured from the corrupt junta in Saigon, or weapons which had been handed over by the hundreds and thousands of troops in the Saigon army who refused to go on fighting for their corrupt bosses but who went over to the side of the people, the side of the National Liberation Front. 
The Opposition has now raised this question about the sending of cables. I do not want to become emotional or subjective about my colleagues, but I would say that no more honest man has ever been a member of this Parliament than  Senator Willesee.  He is a highly respected person. I believe that if honourable senators opposite were not sitting en masse on the other side of the chamber with the support of the antiLabor mass media they would not have the courage to attack him in this way because they know very well that he is an honest man, a truthful man, a man who has tried to play and in fact has played a constructive role as Foreign Minister of this country. Whether or not honourable senators opposite like it, the present Prime Minister of this country is probably the best known and most favourably known of any Prime Minister since Federation in 1 90 1 . He is a man who has made a decisive impression on the course of world history. He is respected in every continent. He is respected not only in Asia but also through Africa, Latin America, South America and indeed in the United States of America itself. 
He is a man who is held in the very highest respect. In fact, just recently we had a visit to this country by a leading American novelist and possibly the world's most eminent economist, Professor J. K. Galbraith. The only reason that Professor Galbraith came to this country was the high regard in which our Prime Minister is held. If  Mr Whitlam  had not been the Prime Minister of this country such persons would not have bothered to come here. They certainly did not bother to come here during all the years we had the endless succession of people who landed us in this position in Vietnam. They would not have wasted their time coming here. 
If the Opposition is so concerned about truth and falsehood in advertising with regard to Vietnam, let us have a royal commission into the whole question of Australia's role in Vietnam. Let us not just inquire into a couple of cables which were sent after the war was over. Let us have a royal commission into the statements which were made in this Parliament to the effect that we were requested by the Saigon Government to send troops to South Vietnam. Let us have a royal commission inquiring into the manoeuvres which were undertaken by the now defunct Liberal-Country Party Government. Let us have an inquiry into the request to the Saigon Government to make a request to us to send troops to Vietnam. Let us have a look at that matter. Let us have a look at all of the other allegations which have been reported only so recently in the Australian Press, particularly in the National Times', about the dishonest way in which young Australians were sent off to be slaughtered and maimed in Vietnam. 
Seeing that we are dealing with a subject which might concern my own portfolio, let us have a look at the difference in repatriation benefits made available by this Government for those people who were conscripted to go to Vietnam and those benefits made available by the previous Government which conscripted them to go off and be maimed. If honourable senators opposite are going to talk about honesty, let us have a look at honesty and fair dealing in the treatment of those veterans who came back from that war. Our view has been that even though we were opposed to people being sent there we were not opposed to those men who were sent there. The difference between what we have done for those men compared with what was done by the people who sent them off and who were responsible for their deaths and maiming is fantastic. I can refer anybody to the Repatriation Acts and the Repatriation Bills if he should want to debate that subject. 
The Australian Labor Party is proud of its record on all of these issues. We do not run away from any one of these questions. We know that we were not the only people who were opposed to the war. We know that one of the reasons that we became the Government of this country is that the people of Australia became thoroughly sick, disgusted, nauseated and ashamed of the role that the previous Government was playing in Vietnam. We know that there are honest people who would not support us on other matters but who supported us in this matter. 
Seeing that this may well be the last debate on the question of Vietnam I would like posthumously to pay some tribute to the late  Senator Hannaford,  a man who in many respects was a very conservative person indeed but who was honest and courageous. He saw the evil of this filthy war and, despite the fact that he was in very serious ill health, he resigned from the Liberal Party and sat in this chamber as an independent senator. In fact, he campaigned throughout Australia against that war. He was a conservative person who saw through the dishonesty of the Liberal and Country Party Government. I do not think that it is in any way beyond doubt that at the very least his activities in opposing that war hastened his death. I would like to know what the reactions of  Senator Hannaford  would be if he were to see his erstwhile colleagues in here today trying to raise some contemptible, little, pettifogging motion about a couple of cables. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The training of the Community Development Officers will improve the operation of the Australian Assistance Plan. 
Paragraph 35, section (f) of the Social Welfare Commission Act 1973, gives the Commission an important responsibility for co-ordinating C.D.O. courses. Both the Department of Social Security and the Social Welfare Commission currently have C.D.O. training proposals before them. 
The first proposal to train Community Development Officers was received in January 1 975. 
Several training programmes have been approved and others are being developed by the Social Welfare Commission in consultation with the Department of Social Security. 
In the regions in the Sydney Metropolitan area where the Australian Assistance Plan has been introduced, approval has been given for 1 7 C.D.O.s to be appointed. Seven have been appointed so far. The number of C.D.O.s in the area in the next 12 months cannot be reliably predicted as it depends upon many factors including the development of the Regional Council structures, size of population, and extent of welfare needs. 
It is anticipated that sufficient numbers of Community Development Officers will be available. They will receive their training by a combination of formal and on the job training. 
I seek leave to make a statement,  Mr President. 
In order that there shall be no misunderstanding about this matter, I table the documents from the Australian Mutual Provident Society, which speak for themselves. 
I do not think I have seen a more misleading and dishonest campaign in the time that I have been a member of the Senate than that which has been mounted against the establishment of the proposed Australian Government insurance corporation. I have seen references to nationalisation when there is no proposal to nationalise anything. If in fact it is to be taken that the establishment of a government insurance office means that the insurance industry is nationalised, then already  Mr BjelkePetersen  in Queensland and  Mr Lewis  in New South Wales are presiding over nationalised insurance industries. In detail, allegations have been made that the Trade Practices Act will not apply to the proposed Australian Government insurance corporation when in fact any first year law student on reading the Bill would be able to see that the Trade Practices Act would apply to it. It has been alleged that it will not be subject to - 
-Yes, it will be. It was originally proposed by an interdepartmental committee which engaged in a study of this matter that the Insurance Acts and the Life Insurance Act should apply to the Australian Government Insurance Office's commercial undertakings. It was my own view, and I persuaded the Cabinet to agree, that they should not apply, because I believed that this was unnecessary in view of the fact that the Office would be, of necessity, a solvent office. The primary purpose of the Insurance Acts and the Life Insurance Act is to protect the solvency of these offices. Not for that reason but for constitutional reasons the State Government insurance offices are not covered by the Insurance Acts or the Life Insurance Act and no one so far, to the best of my knowledge, has claimed that this gives them an unfair advantage. So that competition will not only be fair but will be seen to be fair the Government proposes to introduce appropriate amendments to see that both the Insurance Acts and the Life Insurance Act also apply to the Australian Government Insurance Corporation so that it will be subject to all the laws to which the private insurance companies are subject. 
-Yes. I have been very disturbed by the receipt of documents which have come from the head office of the Australian Mutual Provident Society and which clearly establish that the Australian Mutual Provident Society is an anti-Labor organisation that is dedicated - 
-Yes, it is an antiLabor organisation. When it goes around working class electorates trying to flog policies I hope that it makes it clear to the people to whom it is trying to sell the policies what sort of an organisation it is. It is an anti-Labor organisation that is dedicated to bringing down the Labor Government and it has entered into arrangements with the Country Party. I have with me a letter, a copy of which I shall table so that anybody may inspect it, which was sent out by the so-called Secretary, Public Affairs, of the Australian Mutual Provident Society. The letter will be tabled. It has been publicised as widely as possible. It refers to means by which staff and salesmen of the insurance industry and Country Party members of Parliament can support each other in the electorate in getting across to all members of the public the effects of the Government's measures on them personally. Then this official of the AMP Society went on elsewhere to say that they should work together in order to force the Australian Labor Party Government, which was twice elected within 18 months, to change its policy or to force it from office. That is what the AMP Society says. 
I want to say 2 things. The first is that the people who have done this- the directors of the AMP Society- have acted without any consultation whatsoever with the policy holders of the Australian Mutual Provident Society. The very people who talk about Canberra centralism have acted without consulting their own members when they have engaged in this political campaign. The other thing which I think has to be borne in mind is that in future every person should know- every Labor supporter, every trade unionist and every independent citizen in Australia- that every time he pays a premium on a policy which he holds with the AMP Society he is making a contribution to the funds of the Country Party. I intend to see that every Australian Labor Party branch and every trade union in Australia is made aware of the fact that by taking out policies with the Australian Mutual Provident Society their members are taking out policies with the Australian Country Party. 
-Yes, I am aware of the matters relating to the South Australian Government Insurance Commission and I am aware of the fact - 
-Yes. I am glad that  Senator Jessop  said that. He is an excellent man to have in the Senate. He always says exactly what I want him to say. Yes, the South Austraiian Insurance Commission is losing money and the primary reason that it is losing money is because it is engaging in business which is socially essential but which private insurers refuse to write. That is why it is losing money. If there were no South Australian Government Insurance Commission the people of South Australia would be losing money. I am aware, as  Senator McLaren  has said, that the campaign has been most dishonest. In fact I saw in some of the material circulated that it has been claimed that the Bill was rushed through the House of Representatives. In fact all that happened was that almost 3 weeks ago the second reading speech was made and the debate was adjourned. As for the honourable senator's question about people organising campaigns, I think it is well to know how authentic these so-called mass demonstrations are. I hope that nobody from the Liberal Party or the National Country Party will take a point of order about this because I will see that the sort of relationship that does exist is exposed elsewhere, if not now. I have a letter which was sent out within the last couple of weeks by  Mr Crosier  of the T &amp; G Mutual Life Society Ltd of Melbourne, who acts as the convenor of the Victorian Life Offices Association Committee for Public Relations. He referred to a meeting which was going to be held by a breakaway group from the Australian Insurance Staffs Federation, the Insurance Staffs Action Committee. He said in his letter: 
Outstanding speakers from within and outside the industry will address the meeting, and questions will be invited. The meeting is open to the public and all staffs should be encouraged to invite the public (especially policy holders) to attend. 
The writer referred to a  Mr Barnett  who was the convenor of the meeting, apparently, and went on to say: 

 Mr Barnett has stressed that this is a completely independent group of insurance workers, and management are not in any way associated with the organisation of this function. However, the Sub-Committee has promised its discreet full co-operation to ensure that both protest meetings will have maximum attendances. Indeed, this is essential to the success of these meetings. 
I think that if anybody had any doubts as to the authenticity of these bogus rallies in which  Senator Jessop  masqueraded as a worker in the insurance industry the documents prove the contrary. 
-Earlier, in a question to another Minister,  Senator Greenwood  indicated quite clearly that he had not understood the matter which had been raised by me in relation to the association between the Australian Mutual Provident Society and the National Country Party.  Senator Greenwood  has referred to the relationship between the Amalgamated Metalworkers' Union and the Australian Labor Party. The association between the Amalgamated Metalworkers' Union and the Australian Labor Party is open. That organisation is affiliated with the Australian Labor Party and all the levies or contributions which are made by the Amalgamated Metalworkers' Union to the Australian Labor Party are done publicly and are the subject to the laws of this country. If  Senator Greenwood  is arguing that the Australian Mutual Provident Society wishes to be placed in the same category in its relationship with the National Country Party as the Amalgamated Metalworkers' Union is in its relationship with the Australian Labor Party, that is perfectly in order. We would not object to that. 1 believe that the AMP Society ought to make it clear that it is an anti-Labor organisation and should tell those people who vote Labor that it is an anti-Labor organisation before they try - 
I could add something that would be of assistance to  Senator Scott.  This is a matter which has concerned the Department of Repatriation and Compensation. In fact, it is in order to overcome problems of this type that the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill has been introduced. National interest insurance will be provided by that Office for people such as farmers who have suffered from the hardships that are not normally covered by insurance offices. I take it that, as  Senator Scott  is so interested in this matter, he will be supporting the Bill so that we will be able to give adequate assistance to farmers in instances such as the one he has raised. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The principal features of this Bill are substantial increases in the basic rates of pensions and benefits, an increase in additional payments for children, implementation of the second step in the Government's program to abolish the means test on age pensions, provision for the payment of unemployment, sickness and special benefit weekly in advance instead of weekly in arrear and provision for the immediate payment of special benefit to persons newly discharged from gaol. 
The standard rate of pension for aged persons, invalids, widows and supporting mothers is to be increased by $5 a week to $36 a week. The married rate is to be increased by $4.25 a week to $30 a week, or by $8.50 a week from $51.50 to $60 a week for a pensioner couple. Additional payments for children of pensioners and supporting mothers are to be increased by $1.50 a week to $7 a week for each child. The overall effect of these increases will be that a single pensioner with 2 children will receive a total increase of $8 a week. A married pensioner couple with 2 children will receive a combined increase of $ 1 1 .50 a week. These increases will flow on to recipients of sheltered employment allowances. Unemployment, sickness and special benefits will be increased by the same amounts. Some 170 000 pensioner and beneficiary families will receive increases in additional payments for approximately 340 000 children. The full year cost of these measures is estimated to be $433m. Corresponding increases in service pensions will involve an additional $27m a year, giving a total cost of approximately $460m. For 1974-75 the cost will be approximately $88m. 
The new standard rate of pension proposed in this Bill will represent 24.5 per cent of seasonally adjusted average weekly earnings in the December quarter 1974, the latest quarter for which figures are available. Although we have not quite reached our objective of a standard rate pension of 25 per cent of average weekly male earnings, it is still a record proportion. In the Liberal Government's last year of office the comparable proportion was only 21.0 per cent. Since we assumed office in December 1972 the standard rate of pension has increased by 80 per cent and the combined married rate by nearly 74 per cent. For the same period the consumer price index has increased by 36.3 per cent. This indicates that there has been a substantial redistribution of purchasing power to pensioners and social security beneficiaries under this Government. 
I feel I need to comment only briefly on the relationship between the married rate of pension and the standard rate. With the proposed increases the standard rate will continue to represent 60 per cent of the combined rate for a pensioner couple. This ratio is almost the same as the 61.4 per cent recommended by Professor Henderson in his interim report. I am convinced that we are correct in continuing to pay differential rates of pension. This policy has been followed in Australia for many years and it is an almost universal feature of overseas pension schemes. 
The proposed increases in pension will have the effect of raising the limits of income and property at which pensions cease to be payable under the means test. This will enable people who are now excluded from pension entitlement to qualify for some payment for the first time. A single person without children and with no property affecting his pension will retain some pension entitlement until his other income reaches $92 a week. If he has no other income he will be eligible to receive some pension until the value of his property assessable for means test purposes reaches $48,240. For a married couple without children, the equivalent limits of income and property will be $154.50 a week and $81,160 respectively. A widow or supporting mother with one child and no property affecting will be able to receive other income of up to $ 120 a week before losing her entitlement to widow's pension, or up to $ 124 if her child is under 6 years of age or an invalid child requiring full time care. If she has no income affecting, a widow with one child may have property to the value of $54,000, or $56,080 if her child is under six or an invalid child requiring full time care, before entitlement is extinguished. There are various combinations of income and property in between the figures I have quoted which will permit the payment of a full or part pension. 
Means Test 
Honourable senators will recall that the first historic step towards abolition of the means test on age pensions was taken by this Government in September 1973. Since that date all residentially qualified members of the community aged 75 or more have been able to receive age pensions free of the means test. We are now taking the second step in our program for abolishing the means test for all age pensioners over 65 years of age. This Bill will give effect to that step. Age pensions payable free of the means test will be made available to people in the 70 to 74 age group as from payday 1 May 1975. The Bill allows a period of 3 months grace from the date it becomes law in which claims may be lodged without loss of arrears. 
An estimated 43 000 people who are currently receiving pensions at reduced rates will benefit from this measure by becoming entitled to payment at the maximum rate. In addition an estimated 56 000 people who are presently excluded on account of means will become eligible. These will be people in the relevant age group who have fulfilled the residence qualifications for age pension. A period of 10 years' continuous residence in Australia at any time is required. This period is reduced where a person has lived in Australia for periods aggregating to more than 10 years and has had a period of continuous residence of not less than 5 years. Guardian's allowance and additional payments for children will continue to be subject to the means test as will wife's pension. Similarly supplementary assistance will remain payable subject to the existing supplementary assistance means test. In addition free-of-means-test pensioners will be required to continue to satisfy a means test to qualify for Australian Government 'fringe' benefits such as entitlement to a Pensioner Medical Service Card. The cost of extending free of means test pensions to the 70-74 age group is estimated to be $ 1 5m for 1 974-75 and $ 1 1 8m for a full year. 
Transitional Benefit for the Aged Blind 
Honourable senators will recall that a transitional benefit of $3 a week was introduced in September 1973 for the aged blind. The purpose of the benefit was to ensure that aged blind pensioners were not disadvantaged by the decision, taken at the time it was decided to abolish the means test on age pensions, to subject to income tax all social service type pensions payable to persons of age pension age. As its name implies, it was intended as a temporary measure only. It was reduced to $1.50 a week in July 1974 when the standard rate of pension was increased by $5 a week and the combined married rate by $6 a week. The Bill now before the Senate provides for the transitional benefit to be completely phased out as from pension payday 1 May 1975. 
Payment of Benefits in Advance 
The proposal to make unemployment, sickness and special benefit payable weekly in advance instead of weekly in arrear will, with the passing of this Bill, reduce by 7 days the time it takes the claimant to receive a first benefit cheque. The estimated cost of this measure for the remainder of 1974-75 is $2.4m and $9.4m for a full year. I should add that the Department of Social Security has been paying unemployment benefit in advance on all new claims approved on or after 1 3 January 1 975. The Bill will remove any doubts which may have existed concerning that practice. 
Persons Newly Discharged From Gaol 
The Government has been concerned for some time that persons newly discharged from gaol are often not given an adequate opportunity to re-establish themselves within the community. Many are faced with considerable expense in securing suitable accommodation. Then there are the outstanding debts which are often left to accumulate during imprisonment. Many are left to subsist on handouts from Church and voluntary organisations. As a result many again lapse into crime. The Government is keenly aware of the problems and has decided to take yet another step to fill a gap in our social security system which should not have been allowed to continue. 
With the passing of this Bill special benefit will be payable immediately to persons newly discharged from gaol. The rate of benefit, means test and method of assessment of entitlement will be in accordance with the normal unemployment and sickness benefit provisions, whichever are appropriate. The cost of this proposal is estimated to be $0.7m for a full year and $0.1 m for 1974-75. As a general rule special benefit will be paid for one week. At the end of that time those qualified will transfer to unemployment benefit or if incapacitated for work to sickness benefit but hopefully the vast majority will secure work within a short period of their release from gaol. It is hoped that the prison authorities in each State will extend any help they can to the Department of Social Security to enable the scheme to operate efficiently. The Department will be contacting the authorities on this matter. 

 Mr President, a new method of payment for pensions and similar long term benefits is provided for in the Bill. The Government proposes to enable child endowment, double orphan's pension, handicapped child's allowance and age, invalid and wife's pension, widow's pension and supporting mother's benefit to be paid to the credit of savings accounts with permanent building societies. Initially only child endowment will be paid to building society accounts but the other benefits will be paid in this manner as soon as the necessary administrative arrangements can be made. 
Date of Commencement 
The Bill provides for the new rates to commence from 1 May 1975 in the case of age, invalid and wife's pension and from 6 May 1975 for widow's pension and supporting mother's benefit. Increases in the rates of unemployment, sickness and special benefits will operate in respect of benefit payments due on and after the day of Royal Assent. 
The estimated cost of the proposals in this Bill is $106m in 1974-75 and $587m for a full year.  Mr President,  I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
in reply- I thank  Senator Guilfoyle  for her support of the Bill and the Government will take account of the constructive suggestions she offered. However I ask her and her colleagues when in future they offer suggestions as to how government expenditure should be increased to explain how their suggestions for increases in government expenditure, albeit for socially desirable matters such as those mentioned by  Senator Guilfoyle,  are to be correlated with their policy of reducing government expenditure. I believe the things she suggested are desirable but sometimes I find it difficult to follow the argument. On the one hand they say we should increase government expenditure while on the other hand they condemn us because we have increased government expenditure. I am afraid I did not see the newspaper reports to which the honourable senator referred and I cannot comment on them. It is a fact that this Bill reached the Senate only today but I think it may well be recollected that on the last day during the previous weeks of sitting the Government wished to continue sitting so that the various matters - 
I will not pursue the argument. As  Senator Marriott  has expressed his support for what I have said I will accept his contribution and commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This is a combined Bill which will authorise changes to the Repatriation Act and the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowance Act. The Bill provides for increases and other improvements in repatriation benefits foreshadowed in last year's Budget. It also authorises an increase in the war and defence widows ' pension rate. 
Service Pensions 
At present, the means test does not apply to service pensioners who are aged 75 years or over, and the Bill provides for abolition of the means test for those aged 70 years and over. This will go a long way towards the Government's ultimate objective of abolishing the means test for all service pensioners aged 65 years or over. The cost of this proposal will be $ 1.333m for the remainder of this financial year and $8.667m for a full financial year. 
In determining the amount of service pension payable where a person is still subject to the means test, it is necessary to take into account a person's income. As most honourable senators will be aware, this Government's policy is that disability pensions, which are paid as compensation for service-related incapacity, should not be taken into account as income in the assessment of service pension. To that end, and as a first step, the 1973 Budget provisions disregarded 25 per cent of disability pension for service pension assessment purposes. This Bill provides that a further 25 per cent, bringing the total to 50 per cent, will be disregarded in assessing rates of service pension for those still subject to the means test. It is estimated that the cost of this relaxation of the means test will be $0.1 5 8m for the remainder of this financial year and $ 1.030m for a full financial year. The Bill will extend service pension eligibility to veterans of Commonwealth countries other than Australia. In this context Commonwealth countries' will include those countries, dominions and colonies that were, at the time of the relevant war or war-like operation, part of the British Empire or members of the British Commonwealth of Nations. 
In order to qualify for service pensions these veterans must have been resident in Australia for at least 10 years, in the same way as applicants for age and invalid pensions under the Social Services Act. They will be required to have served outside their countries of enlistment or else have qualified for the award of a campaign medal in respect of service against the enemy during wars or war-like operations in which Australian forces were engaged. Although it is difficult to say just how many veterans will qualify under the new provisions, the best available estimates are that some 9500 persons could become eligible immediately and, on that basis, the cost for 1974-75 will be $1.1 58m and for 1975-76, $7.530m. Although not specifically provided for in this Bill, there will be increases in the rates of service pension and in the additional amounts payable to service pensioners with children. These will flow automatically from proposals my colleague, the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  has already announced. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
-Before the suspension of the sitting for the luncheon break I was in the process of speaking to the second reading of the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill, and I shall continue from the stage at which I left off. 
Transitional Benefit for Aged Blind 
The Bill provides for cessation of the transitional benefit of $1.50 a week paid to aged Service pensioners who are blind. As its name implies, this was a benefit introduced for a temporary period to offset any loss which may have been suffered by such a person whose Service pension became taxable in 1973. No Service pensioners will suffer reductions in Service pension as a result of this provision, as the increase in the maximum rate of Service pension will more than offset the effect of this provision. 
Disability Pensions 
I shall now outline the specific increases proposed in the Bill. The rates of payment of the various pensions referred to are weekly amounts. 
Special Rates 
The special (totally and permanently incapacitated) rate pension is payable to those veterans who, because of Service-related incapacity, are totally and permanently incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to earn more than a negligible percentage of a living wage. This rate is also payable to the Service-blinded, to certain double amputees, to certain sufferers of pulmonary tuberculosis, and to those temporarily totally incapacitated because of Service-related incapacity. About 1 8 600 will benefit from this pro- posal to increase the special rate by $4.00 to 68.10, at an estimated cost of $0.628m for the remainder of this financial year and $4.080m for a full financial year. The intermediate rate pension is paid to about 1 900 veterans who, because of Service-related incapacity, are able to work only part-time or intermittently. The Bill provides for this rate to be increased by $3.50 to $48.05. The cost of the proposal is estimated at $0.053m for the remainder of this financial year and $0.344m for a full financial year. 
General Rate 
About 190 000 veterans who suffer Servicerelated incapacity receive general rate pension at percentages from 10 to 100. Veterans in this group are not prevented from engaging in employment because of their Service-related incapacity, but their earning powers may be restricted. The Bill provides for the 100 per cent rate to be increased by $3.00 to $28.00. There will be proportionate increases for rates lower than 100 per cent. The cost of this proposal will be about $ 1.891m for the 1974-75 financial year and $ 12.291m for a full year. 
War and Defence Widows 
The war and defence widows' pension rate is payable where a veteran's death is related to his service or where he was receiving at the time of his death, or would have been entitled to receive, a special (TPI) rate disability pension. The Bill proposes an increase of $5.00 to $36.00 in this rate of pension. The cost of this proposal is estimated at $2.046m for this year and $ 1 3.296m for the next financial year. 
So,  Mr President,  you will see from what I have said that this Government is proposing substantial improvements in the repatriation sector costing approximately $47. 238m in a full year. In addition, a further $32.029m will be provided for increases in Service pension flowing from amendments to the Social Services Act. It is proposed that the increased rates of existing pensions will apply from 8 May 1975. Pensioners will receive the increases as soon as practicable after the Bill is passed by both Houses of the Parliament. It is anticipated this will be pay-day 5 June 1975, on which date the new rates will be paid together with arrears of the increases from 8 May 1975. It is my pleasure,  Mr President,  to commend the Bill to the Senate. 
in reply- I am afraid that I am unable to comment on the accuracy or otherwise of the article by  Mr Oakes  which has been mentioned. I have not read the article; nor until a couple of hours ago was I aware that  Mr Oakes  had written an article on this or any other subject. The article apparently was not in any of the journals which I habitually read. What  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack proposes to do about  Mr Oakes,  naturally, is a matter for him to determine. I am afraid that I am unable to offer any assistance in this matter. 
I appreciate the approach which the Opposition has adopted to the passage of this Bill and of the Bill relating to social services, which preceded it. I thank  Senator Marriott  for his remarks not only insofar as they relate to the merits of the Bill but also insofar as they relate to my unsurpassed industry in this chamber. Having said that, I once again thank the Opposition for its support. I trust that this Bill, which is of considerable importance to a great many well deserving people, has a speedy passage through this chamber and is implemented speedily. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to accept amendments which were proposed by the Opposition in this chamber when the original Bill was being debated late last year. At the time the amendments were acceptable to the Government, but if it had agreed to implement them then the Bill would have had to come back to the Parliament early this year. Both sides in the debate agreed that it would be wise to have the original Bill agreed to and assented to on the condition that the Government brought in the amendments at a later stage. 
This Bill brings in the amendments. One amendment relates to the insertion of the word direct' before the word 'financial' to clarify the form of financial assistance suggested. The other amendment relates to the powers of the Commissioners to enter properties for the purposes of their inquiries. It was thought by the Opposition that in the way the original Bill was worded its potential was too far-reaching; hence the amendment. I commend the Bill. 
-Yes, I think that would be very interesting infomation. I shall obtain it as soon as possible and see that it is made publicly available. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a third time. 
In doing so I thank those honourable senators who supported the Bill and I invite any Opposition senators, if they know of any instances in which they believe this legislation is not being properly administered, to advise me immediately so that corrective action can be taken. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
-Some honourable senators may be aware that fairly recently an attempt was made in Western Australia to provide crop insurance. This was attempted as part of a joint arrangement between the Westralian Farmers Co-operative Limited and Western Underwriters Pty Limited. A recent bulletin issued by the Westralian Farmers Co-operative, The West Farmers News Brief', announced that the so-called west crop multi-peril wheat crop insurance had been suspended for the financial year 1975-76. 
Multi-peril crop insurance. I should have thought that  Senator Durack,  as a Western Australian senator, would not have had to ask me what sort of insurance the people he claims to represent are able to obtain. I would have hoped that he would have known that. They were trying to provide multi-peril crop insurance. They have found that they are unable to provide this insurance and they are going to suspend it for the coming year. I agree with  Senator Mcintosh  that the unfortunate fate of the efforts of Westralian Farmers and Western Underwriters to provide crop insurance does illustrate the necessity of having some form of national interest insurance in order to provide this type of insurance for farmers. 
-Senator Jessop has asked n.e about this matter before, as have a number of other people. It will be remembered that some years ago  Mr Justice  Toose was commissioned by the previous Government to prepare a report on the repatriation system. Although, from the point of view of my Department, he has been provided with very considerable assistance, both since we have been in government and previously, apparently he has found some difficulty in completing the report. Last year I had a communication from him in which he said he was facing some difficulties. I think I already have informed the Senate of this in answer to an earlier question by  Senator Jessop.  I agreed to extend the time for the submission of a report to 30 March. Apparently other problems have occurred in the meantime, which I do not altogether follow, and thus have prevented  Mr Justice  Toose from presenting the report by 30 March although he told me that part of the report has been now sent to the printer and another part of it is in draft form. 
I appreciate  Senator Jessop  's concern about this matter. I think I also should tell the Senate, as this matter is becoming very prolonged indeed, that I have given an undertaking to veterans' organisations that after the report has been submitted to the Government all these organisations will have 6 months to consider the report and to make any comments which they wish to make on it before the Government makes any judgment as to what action it should take on the report. It certainly would appear to be a very long time before anything is going to emerge from this inquiry. I shall find out the other information concerning the cost of the report up to this date and let  Senator Jessop  and the Senate know as soon as possible. 
-My attention has now been drawn to 2 life assurance offices which issued manuals which imposed racial discriminatory provisions in the rules applying to the availability of life policies to people of various ethnic groups. They were the Prudential Assurance Co. Ltd and the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Ltd. Both of these companies have now said that the manuals which they issued are out of date, although apparently in both cases the manuals are continuing to be used by a number of agents employed by those companies. In fact my office this morning has been inundated by requests from New Zealand newspapers concerning the reference to Maoris which occurred in the manual issued by the 
As the CML does rather extensive business in New Zealand it will be interesting to see how it explains that position in that country. The only action I think that I can take in this matter, apart from looking into the law- and I certainly am looking into the Life Insurance Act to see whether the companies have committed any breach of it in the action that they have taken- is to expose the matter so that the public can be aware of these practices. 
It may be remembered that when the requirements of the Prudential Assurance Co. Ltd were referred to, a spokesman for that company said that all the life offices engaged in this practice, whether or not it was printed in a manual. I believe this ought to be exposed to the people so that the people of Mediterranean races, for example- I think there are nearly one million of that descent in Australia- can make up their own minds about the authenticity of these companies. The other thing to do is to see that an office is established in Australia which will not function on the ground of race or sex discrimination. 
I appreciate the problem that  Senator Bessell  has raised and I can understand his concern about it. As he has pointed out there are certain problems in these matters when work has already begun on a project as to what precisely one does about it. I am afraid I do not know the particulars of the matter that he has raised. I can see the difficulty that is involved. I will see that this question is referred immediately to  Dr Cass-  I think from the way in which  Senator Bessell  has put it it would seem to be a matter of some urgency- and ask him to let me have a reply as quickly as possible so that I can provide  Senator Bessell  and the Senate with an answer. 
I understand that the Victorian Government, as part of its campaign to deny the people of Victoria proper health services and in order to further its own narrow, dogmatic and ideological ends, did wish to enter into an advertising campaign against the Australian Government. I also understand it did ask the Hospitals and Charities Commission to provide information to an advertising agency which the Victorian Minister for Health had engaged as to why the Victorian Government should not participate in Medibank.  I  am also informed, on a most reliable authority, that when the Victorian advertising agents went to the Victorian Hospitals and Charities Commission, they were informed that the Commission was unable to provide them with any reasons whatsoever as to why they should not participate. 
-Earlier today  Senator Jessop  asked me various questions concerning the inquiry by  Mr Justice  Toose into repatriation. One of  Senator Jessop  's questions concerned the cost of the inquiry. Subsequently  I  have been informed by my Department that, to the end of March, the approximate cost incurred in the undertaking of the inquiry was $600,000. 
in reply- The amendments which have been proposed by  Senator Drake-Brockman  are not acceptable to the Government, and in fact will delay the passage of the Bill. I do not intend to become engaged in arguments about who delayed what in the past but I will say that if the amendments are persevered with they will produce a delay in the passage of the Bill because they are completely unacceptable to the Government. I shall explain why they are completely unacceptable to the Government. Some matters raised by  Senator Drake-Brockman,  I think, first of all require an answer. The first question he has raised relates to the position of those residents in Darwin who were under-insured. By 'underinsured' I take it he means that the value of their premises or property were not insured to the full marketable value. I imagine that it would not be surprising if everybody was in that position. It is very rare indeed that one finds that anybody has 100 per cent insurance cover over anything, except possibly in the case of some mortgage insurance or something like that, but certainly not on property. In this sense I think that everybody would fall into this category. 
The question that  Senator Drake-Brockman  has raised is whether possibly the payment of compensation to those people who did not carry insurance to the full value of the destroyed or damaged property would somehow be harmed because of the dual payment provisions in their insurance policies, and whether the money paid by the Government as a result of this Bill becoming an Act would go not to the insured person but to the insurance companies. This is a matter in which I have had close consultation with the general insurance companies and I have received considerable assistance from them. They have provided me and my Department with a lot of information about the valuation of the various properties and the insurance cover which they had provided. I have been assured by them that any supplementary compensation which will be paid to insured people as the result of the passage of this Bill into an Act will not be regarded as a dual payment within the terms of their insurance contracts and that they will not be making any claim for the money. 
This is primarily a matter of dispute, I suppose between the insured persons receiving the compensation and the insurance company, rather than for us to become involved in a domestic argument of this sort, if there were to be such an argument. Our understanding of the matter, particularly in regard to the assurance that we have received from the insurance companies, is that no problem of this nature will arise. Another matter which was mentioned by  Senator DrakeBrockman  I did not entirely follow him- was that in some way this was an abrogation of the rights of the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory. I am not clear how this could be so. 
I am not in a position really to comment on Bills for which I am not responsible, but as far as the Bill with which we are dealing now is concerned, there is no parliament other than the Australian Parliament which could deal with it because the moneys that are being provided are clearly out of the general revenue of Australia. There is no way in which we could give the responsibility or authority for the passage of a Bill such as this to the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory. It has no right to make any allocations of Australian 
Government funds.  Senator Jessop  has raised various matters which are critical of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission, I take it. Again I am prepared to debate them when the occasion arises, but there is little that I can contribute to that matter in this debate. At present we are not dealing with the Darwin Reconstruction Commission. In fact, if Darwin were never to be reconstructed at all and there were to be no more Darwin we would still proceed with the Bill that we have before us because it is designed to compensate people for the loss of what they possessed in the past rather than to provide them with funds. 
-The only point that I am making is that whether  Senator Jessop  is correct or incorrect in the statements that he has made about the reconstruction of Darwin, it in fact has no bearing on this Bill because it is proposed under this Bill that we will pay compensation to people even though they may have decided not to return to Darwin. There is no specification as to what they will do with the compensation money that is paid to them. If they decide to go to live in Melbourne, under the terms of this Bill they will still be compensated for the property which they lost in Darwin. 

 Senator Jessop has referred to compensation for losses other than the loss of property. Together with  Senator Jessop  I met a gentleman who had had a series of very unfortunate experiences in the Northern Territory for which one has to feel a great deal of sympathy. This gentleman 's transport business was ruined, not so much directly by the cyclone in the sense that he lost a great deal of property, but through the fact that everything was dislocated as a result of the cyclone and he was unable to carry on his business. I told this gentleman that we would be able to provide compensation for the actual loss of property that occurred, of which there was not a very great deal, but I am afraid that there is no way that I can see in which we could provide compensation for loss of goodwill or loss of business. If we were to be making provision for compensation other than for actual physical damage what we could be paying out is incalculable. Not only would we have to compensate people presumably for loss of goodwill, loss of business and loss of expected contracts, but I presume that we would also have to compensate private persons for loss of enjoyment, for the incalculable disadvantages of having to uproot their families and shift somewhere else, and for loss of consortium between husbands and wives. All sorts of things would have to be brought into it. We believe that the only way in which we can tackle this question rationally is to deal with the actual loss of property. 
I appreciate what  Senator Jessop  is saying. It is something which we certainly considered, but I can see no way in which any other form of compensation could be provided. People throughout Australia constantly find themselves in these positions, even if it is not through a cyclone. A man might own a newsagent's shop, a greengrocery or some other small business in an area which is zoned as industrial and all the local residents move out, factories are built there and his business vanishes as a result of it. There is no way in which we could pay compensation to that man for the loss of his business, and I do not think that we can do it in Darwin. At the same time, as I said yesterday in the course of another debate, I wish that the Opposition would make up its mind on the expenditure of government money. On the one hand we are being told that one of the primary evils in Australia at present is the excessive public expenditure. 
We were told recently by  Mr Chipp  that with regard to our social security programs we are building, as he put it, a nation of bludgers or spongers or whatever it was he called them. Yet at the same time it seems to be not inconsistent with this for the Opposition, whenever we put up a proposal for expenditure of this type, to say that we are not spending enough and that we ought to be spending more. I really ask the members of the Opposition- I ask this in all goodwillto tell us exactly what it is they want. Do they want us to be spending hundreds of millions of dollars more in Darwin, which will increase public expenditure, or are they saying that we ought to be spending less? 
Debate interrupted. 
I will deal now in broad terms with the amendments which have been foreshadowed by 

 Senator Drake-Brockman so that before the debate at the Committee stage commences my position and the Government's position may be made clear. The amendments, or something along the lines of the amendments which  Senator Drake-Brockman  has given notice that he will move, were considered by the Government. This is certainly something which I would say obviously would occur to any government; that is, that when you are handing out quite substantial sums of money you ought to have some rules whereby people may be paid those moneys and may have some redress if they have not been paid what they regard as an appropriate sum of money. However, the decision to which we came- I think that there are good reasons for doing it and I think that those good reasons were explained in the second reading speech- was that what we are trying to do is to see that decisions are made which are in keeping with the real interests of justice and equity. In my second reading speech I said: 
This is not meant to imply the absence of principles whereby these moneys are to be distributed- as broad principles will be used- but rather the need for a high degree of flexibility and discretion if this operation is to be just and effective. 
The criteria which are enunciated in  Senator Drake-Brockman  's amendment are in fact those which I said when introducing the Bill would be applied by the Government in exercising its discretion under this Bill. However, we have to exercise discretion in this case of compensation. I believe that the fundamental point- I hope that  Senator Missen  and  Senator Chaney  will agree with me on this- is in the proposed new clause 4a (c) in the amendments, which provides that compensation shall be payable only to persons who give proof of possession, entitlement and loss or damage suffered. If we insert the word proof in this legislation- in an Act of Parliament 'proof means proof- we will take away the opportunity of applying the discretion and the flexibility which we are now seeking to apply. 
If I may I will argue the point by giving an illustration of the sort of instance that can develop. As the situation stands now if somebody were to come along to the relevant compensation officer of my Department and says that he or she had a house in, say, Nightcliff that was destroyed and that he or she had a refrigerator and television set inside the house and if in the judgment of the relevant officer it is a reasonable thing to say that that person, living in that sort of house and in that sort of area, is the sort of person whom one would expect to have a television set of an average value and a refrigerator of an average value, we would be prepared to pay compensation to that person for those items. We would not be asking for proof that he or she had them. If we have to ask for proof- proof means proof- and if somebody were to come along and say that he had a refrigerator worth $250 and a television set worth $150 or what ever it is we would have to demand that he produce receipts for the purchase of those items and witnesses that the television set and the refrigerator were there and were working, not damaged, beforehand. We would have to apply all the strict criteria. 
I say that, and I say that through having read the Opposition's proposed amendment. The Opposition's proposed amendment says quite clearly that compensation shall be payable only to persons who give proof of possession, entitlement and loss or damage suffered. 
I know that the evidence can be given orally, but the proposed amendment does not say 'give evidence'- it says give proof. I suggest that there is a difference between giving evidence and giving proof. I say that with all due respect to my brethren on the Opposition benches. If these criteria are to be made a matter of law and if appeals are to be available we will be placed in a position in which we will have to apply the provisions rigidly. Unless we cut out the adoption of an attitude in which we are being humane, flexible and generous in saying 'You seem to be the sort of fellow who would have had a refrigerator and a television set. I know that you do not have any proof or, for that matter, any evidence of having them other than your statement that you had them', and demand that they do give this proof we could be placed in the position in which we would be quite generously or flexibly providing money to meet various claims at the same time as claimants have the right to go to the Supreme Court in regard to some other matter. They may well do so, as it happens. I am sure that this would be the case. I do not doubt that there will be many people who will be claiming more than they are strictly entitled to and who will be receiving more than they are strictly entitled to. I say that here and now. I do not have the slightest doubt about that. I trust the honesty of people sufficiently to say that I do not think that this is going to amount to a very great sum, but it is going to be almost impossible to police this thing. We are not trying to police it. We are trying to see that it is carried out with judgment, discretion, efficiency and, at the same time, flexibility and humanity. 
If this Bill were to become an Act and the Parliament were to place this whole matter in a position in which every aggrieved person will be going along to the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory with a complaint I will have to instruct my officers to rigidly demand proof of everybody who makes a claim against us so that we will not be placed in the position of having people going to the Supreme Court and obtaining judgment against us at the same time as we are paying out in other instances large sums of money in a flexible and compassionate manner. This will delay the whole of these proceedings. It will increase inordinately the cost of the administration of this scheme. I have not heard any good arguments- I may hear them when we come to the Committee stage of the debate- as to why these criteria should be applied. The Opposition has said that it wants proof subject to the right of appeal to the Supreme Court. I should have thought that we already had a pretty clear precedent laid down, although there are appeal tribunals involved, under the Repatriation Act in which the benefit of the doubt is given to the veteran. Very largely the same people who administer the Repatriation Act are the people who will be administering the Darwin Cyclone Damage Compensation Act if this Bill does become an Act. 
It is the view of the Government and it is my view that acceptance of the proposed amendment would place quite unnecessary and narrow restrictions upon the Government and would involve us in a tremendous amount of additional cost. It would mean that all sorts of rigid assessments would have to be obtained. There could not be any flexibility. Anyone who has seen the damage which occurred in Darwin and who appreciates the great difficulty involved in assessing precisely what damage has occurred when some houses and their contents were totally wiped out would know that it would be impossible to predict what sorts of burdens and strains are going to be imposed on the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory and what financial burdens are going to be imposed on the Government in trying to deal with all of the appeals. 
I do not doubt that every person who made an application for compensation and who did not get the full amount he claimed would think that it was worth while making an appeal to the Supreme Court. That certainly has been my experience in the administration of the Repatriation Act. I have no reason to believe that the position in Darwin will be any different. Everybody who thinks that he has been short-changed in any way by the Department, however well he may have done, is going to go along to the Supreme Court with an appeal. The onus for accepting that type of expenditure and that type of unnecessary bureaucracy and adversary situation is not the sort of onus that we are prepared to accept. The Government will be voting against the proposed amendment and it will continue to persevere with this matter. If members of the Opposition wish to do so I will be happy to go with them to Darwin and debate the issues involved in this Bill with them in any public meeting hall in Darwin or anywhere else in Australia at which the evacuees of Darwin are present, but I will say here and now that the proposed amendment is totally unacceptable to the Government. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
I hope that this does not become an acrimonious debate. If in any way I have sounded as though I am getting annoyed I do not wish that to be the case, because I think we are trying to work out a constructive way of handling this problem. I can only say that the judgment of the Government is that the propositions which are being put forward by the Opposition are not helpful to what we are trying to do. If I may refer briefly to what  Senator Hall  has just said, I must confess that I am at a loss to know how we can merely adopt the provisions of item 4c of the Opposition 's amendment which provides that a person who is dissatisfied with the decision of the Minister and so on may appeal to the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory where there are no criteria whatever because it is merely saying that the Minister can dispense some moneys and anyone who is dissatisfied can appeal. I do not know what the Court would make out of that when people went along to it. 
To deal with some of the other matters that have been raised- no doubt they are peripheral- by  Senator Missen  as to the disbursement of funds which were raised voluntarily, I quite frankly do not know what is happening about that. As I understand it, there had been some argument at some stage between the people who had been raising money and the Government about what was going to be done with the money. I understood that this had been resolved, but in any event that does not come within my responsibility and it has no bearing on this Bill because any compensation that would be paid under this Bill in the same way as the payments which are being made for personal injury which have not been the subject of a Bill are independent of any moneys which may be received from any charitable sources or elsewhere. 
I turn to the problems, whatever they are, of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission and matters which apparently were raised on a program broadcast this morning by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I notice that sometimes members of the Opposition listen to this program avidly and quote it as an authority on a subject and at other times apparently it is not quite so reliable. I am afraid I did not hear the program. I do not know what the complaint was about. 
I understand that  Senator Cotton  is going to lend me his tape recording of it so I can hear it later. I have not heard the program. I do not know what the people were complaining about but whatever it is, it is a matter which falls, I think, within the responsibility of the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson).  If someone wishes to ask a question of the Minister representing that Minister, which I am not, no doubt an answer will be obtained. 
If I may deal again generally with the amendment which has been moved, I have heard various reasons put forward as to why there is nothing in particular wrong with the proposals in the amendment but I have not heard any good reason why they are being put forward. If someone is suggesting that the officers of my Department are not going to behave responsibly or if someone feels that I am going to be distributing patronage to people in Darwin, that has not been said and I do not think anyone believes that. I gather that the Opposition does not mean that. If and if indeed proof in the Opposition's understanding of the word 'proof in the amendment merely means some sort of evidence which a reasonable person would accept, then I really do not know why it has to be spelled out in the Bill at all. Unless one is laying down some reasonably rigid criteria I do not know why one wants to amend the Bill. If the Opposition is going to say that it is only going to be a common sense sort of thing that anybody would do, that is what we mean, then why say it? Under this amendment the Opposition is not confining the Minister at all, if that is the interpretation which ought to be put on the use of the word 'proof, but I still must say with respect to  Senator Missen  that I do not accept that is what I would understand by the word 'proof. Certainly what he has said would not constitute proof in a civil action and proof beyond reasonable doubt, as he knows, is the proof required in a criminal action. I would have thought that the sort of criteria which we are going to use, that it seems to be reasonable to expect that a person would have had a refrigerator and that it would have been worth about $ 1 50 or whatever it may be, is much less than the proof that would be required in a civil action. 
I will deal with the sub-clauses of the amendments seriatim. Obviously there is no objection to clause 4A (a) or to clause 4a (b). I do not want to indulge in tedious repetition but as I have already said, with regard to clause 4A (c) if the applicants have to give proof of their loss and the word 'proof is given the interpretation which I put on it, or even a more modest interpretation, many people will not get anything because it will be impossible to offer proof or, indeed, anything other than evidence of a most vague verbal kind. I cannot object to proposed clause 4B (1) because it does not make much difference to anything. 
I am afraid that I then would have another difficulty and that would be that if it were evidence, how good is the evidence that has to be given? The evidence of a town drunk, if it were the only evidence, would still be evidence but what would we do with it? What about the evidence of a convicted criminal, a known liar and cheat? I suppose his word would be evidence but are we to accept it? It seems to me that that suggestion is not suitable either on this occasion. I am not advocating the word 'evidence' as an alternative to the word proof. I say that what you suggest is proof and not evidence and if you do say proof it is more than evidence. 
-Yes, it could well be unacceptable evidence or unreliable evidence. What would we do if there was contradictory evidence? I do not know. There is no objection to proposed clause 4B ( 1 ) but we have a problem with 4B (2) and that is that discretion may well be needed possibly to give more than the uninsured value of the damaged or destroyed property if it turns out that the person is uninsured because of the failure of the company in which he held a policy. We have not given a strict definition of being insured in the second reading speech and we deliberately have not done so in the Bill. Without raking over old coals about an unfortunate episode that occurred which I think was quite beyond the responsibility of the company concerned, I think a number of people would be aware that the Northumberland Insurance Company went into liquidation in 1974. 
Quite a number of people in Darwin were insured with the Northumberland Insurance Company. It is still a matter of considerable speculation as to what payments are to be made by the liquidator to people holding policies with that company. What are we going to call those people? Are we going to call them insured people insofar as they held a policy with the Northumberland Insurance Company or are we to say that they are uninsured because the company subsequently has failed? This is a matter of very complex drafting. I mentioned it because it is an example of the myriads of problems that are occurring in the whole of this Darwin matter and which necessitate the use of discretion by responsible officers, and not having rigid rules which will finish up being argued before the Supreme Court; and presumably, if it goes to the Supreme Court it can go on appeal elsewhere. I mention that specifically in the context of the proposed clause 4B (2). 
With regard to 4B. (3), this is not very satisfactory but I suppose it could be accepted although I do not know that anything really is added. We have laid down already quite clearly that we are not going to compensate people in excess of this amount but if somebody wants to insert that, and that is all they want to insert, I would not argue. I would think that obviously we are not going to be over-compensating people. I think there probably is a problem about actually specifying a maximum amount and not just accepting the Minister's word for it because I do not know what remedial action is taken if it turns out that somebody or other does get some small amount in excess of it. What do we do then if that is the only provision that there is in the Bill? 
Proposed clause 4B. (4) overlooks the fact that people who use boats for business purposes ought to be compensated. In fact it is our intention to also compensate people who own a boat which is used in a business under the category of business plant and equipment. We intend to include boats under business plant and equipment in the general provisions for business plant and equipment. Boats which were used as homes, and there were some people dwelling in boats, would have been covered in any event otherwise. 
I think that proposed clause 4B. (5) could well be unduly restrictive. The Government intends to look at each case on its merits. What about the problems of the position of guests in a house at the time or cases where the inhabitants of a house were not members of the one household? There are problems in this regard. In these cases more than one claim could be considered eligible under the flexible criteria which we prefer to see applied. There could be more than one claim for a household where there was more than one family that happened to be sharing the house and somebody was staying there, or something like that. There could be more than one claim up to a maximum of $5,000 made in respect of the one household. That is something which requires flexibility. 
-By discretion. This does not quite relate to the point I am talking about but if there is somebody who is a notorious - 
I do not know about a notorious criminal but somebody generally regarded as being unreliable and not too coherent I refer to somebody whose memory is not too good and who does not have a fanatical addiction to pendantry in matters of fact when his own benefit might result. In such a case I think you have to say that you are going to use your discretion. If a fellow comes along and says, 'You may not believe it but I had the finest collection of Rembrants in the southern hemisphere and that went off', you are not going to believe him, but if he comes along and says, 'I lost my electric shaver, my frying pan and spare suit of clothes ', I think you are prepared to offer something. I think this is the best we can hope to do. I must say that with all the appeal provisions that are provided for going to the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory I do not think there is any better that the court could do either when the person concerned appeared before it, as he undoubtedly would if these amendments were incorporated in the Bill. 
Proposed clause 4B. (6) refers to the business premises of a person. I suppose 'a person' can mean a number of things. It could mean a corporation sole, I take it, but we also have to consider the question of a firm. This amendment is not as well worded or as happily worded as it might have been. 
I am afraid that I am not speaking on behalf of the draftsman. 
It may well pick up the point but I still think there may be happier ways of wording it in this instance with this complexity we already have of there being 2 people in a household. What happens between a couple of partners who were in business together with or without there being a registered partnership? I think that the general drift of my objections would be fairly clear by now. I want to refer just briefly to one matter. The fact is that 800 claims already have been received and approved by the officers of my Department and over $ 1 m in toto in compensation in fact is ready for payment to the 800 claimants. We would be able to pay it out immediately the Bill is passed. If the amendments are carried I am afraid- I am not saying this to be obstructive; I assure the Opposition of this because the points they have raised I have  considered myself  and debated at very great length- the whole thing will have to go back into the melting pot again and one does not know how long it would be before these people, and other people whose applications are in the process of being made to us, would be dealt with. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
I do not really want to say anything further. I have outlined the Government's objections to the amendment. I only say once again that the passage of the amendment would mean a tremendous inconvenience without any possible return. If one does a calculus of pains and pleasures on these proposals the pains clearly outweigh the pleasures. For that reason I oppose the passage of the amendment. 

 -What Senator Steele Hall has outlined certainly would be my understanding of the role of the ombudsman. The role of the ombudsman would be to deal with matters in relation to which ministerial or departmental discretion had been exercised. If one felt that one had been in any way improperly treated in a matter such as this, that would seem to be the classic sort of case which ought to be taken to the ombudsman, although of course as  Senator Hall  has said, as yet we do not have any legislation which provides for the appointment of an ombudsman. But certainly that is the sort of thing which ought to be dealt with by means of administrative courts of some sort. If we had administrative courts of the type to be found in France and in some other European countries, that clearly would seem to be the place to take any grievances that one had. Unfortunately we do not have courts of that type. We can rely only on the ordinary civil and criminal courts which, as I have said already, are not properly constituted to deal with the sorts of matters that we are trying to deal with under this Bill. 
I do not want to prolong this debate unduly. I appreciate the contributions that have been made. I respect the views that have been put forward. I thank  Senator Greenwood  for saying that when I was in Opposition I tried to ensure that legislation was as good as it possibly could be. 
-Yes. I can assure him that I have tried to do the same as a Minister. The points which have been put today by the Opposition were considered extremely carefully by me. It is not that we blithely went ahead and said that there would not be any appeals on this matter. The point was carefully examined. What  Senator Greenwood  thinks of my judgment is another matter, but I can assure him that it was as a result of investigating the matter and thinking about it as much as I could that I came to the conclusion that we could not really provide any criteria for an appeal. Once we provide for an appeal we must provide strict criteria. With the greatest respect to  Senator Bunton  who has suggested, as I understand him, that we follow  Senator Hall's  initial suggestion that clause 4C of the amendment be included, it would seem to me to be quite impossible to make provisions for an appeal without any criteria. If there are appeals there must be criteria. Once there are criteria, it is my view that they must be strict criteria. Once there are strict criteria, one must of necessity, I believe, find that a number of people who with the exercise of a bit of common sense and with a bit of humanity should have received donations from the Australian people by way of compensation will not have received anything. 
In addition, we will be involved in a great deal of extra expense in having to survey meticulously the claims to a greater extent than we would now. One cannot anticipate what we will be involved in by way of legal and administrative costs in the event of these appeals taking place. I know that the sum is a large one and I know that people will be making claims, but it is not unprecedented to have no right of appeal when money is provided. I know that the money provided to the victims of the Brisbane floods and the Tasmanian bushfires was provided through the 
States. As I recollect, provisions of appeal were not made available for those people. 
I appreciate that. I am not saying that it is exactly the same position, but I do not think that any of us were demanding that the Queensland Government or the Tasmanian Government should lay down some strict rules whereby victims of the Tasmanian bushfires or the Brisbane floods would have to argue their case and prove it and would then have a right of appeal. This is an ex gratia payment which must be made because we have a moral responsibility to make it. 
I am afraid I do not know what is being done with the moneys which were publicly collected. I am sure that  Senator Bunton,  as one of those who participated in the collection of those moneys, is interested to know how they are being handled and how equitably they are being distributed. But they have nothing to do with this matter. Whoever is distributing them and however they are going about it, this apparently was some sort of mutual arrangement between local government authorities, States, private persons and the Commonwealth Government who agreed to set up a joint body to distribute the moneys. This compensation for property damage and the compensation which is being paid for death and personal injury will be allocated quite separately from any sums that people may be receiving from private sources or from this collection. 
I do not want to appear to be disagreeable because I do not think it has been a disagreeable debate. If nothing else, I think it has been well worthwhile having an opportunity to discuss the matters that have been put forward so that the Government's position can be more clearly understood. I can only repeat that the amendments are not acceptable to the Government and we shall vote against them. If they are carried, I think I would have to be fair and inform the Senate that they would not be accepted by the House of Representatives and the Bill would be returned to the Senate. 
Question put: 
That the proposed new clauses  (Senator DrakeBrockman's amendment)  be inserted. 
-There is no distinction between persons who can be classified as veterans, whether they are male or female. This includes people who may have belonged to auxiliary services. There is one difference which I think I pointed out some time earlier this year in answer to a question by  Senator Coleman  about repatriation benefits, and that is that the widows of male veterans are entitled to war widow benefits whereas the widowers of deceased women veterans are not entitled to similar benefits. I think that this matter requires some examination. The origins of such a policy are obvious. They began at a time when it was quite uncommon for women to be earning incomes. I intend to look at that matter within the context of the framing of the next Budget, but I certainly cannot give any undertakings at this stage about any changes which could occur in that area. The only thing I can say is that if any person is a veteran, male or female, the benefits or otherwise are the same. 
If  Senator McLaren  is seeking that information, I will obtain it. The only present comment I could make is about one former member of Parliament,  Sir Allen  Fairhall, who was taking part in the ill-fated insurance company campaign which now seems to have collapsed. I notice in the course of the publicity that was given to  Sir Allen  that no reference was made to the fact that he is the  Chairman  of the board of the Commonwealth General Assurance Corporation Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Zurich Insurance Company which is based in the same city as the gnomes. Apparently he was so concerned to serve his foreign masters that he would do almost anything to prevent the Australian people participating in this very lucrative activity. 
I am aware of the matters that have been raised by  'Senator Davidson  although I am not directly responsible for them. It is a fact that it appears that a number of people who are not unemployed are receiving unemployment benefit. The figures which are available to the Minister for Labor and Immigration regarding unemployment and those which are available to the Minister for Social Security regarding the number of recipients of unemployment benefit do not tally. Obviously this is something which has to be remedied. 
I think that one of the reasons the Minister for Social Security would not be anxious to impose unduly stringent requirements on those people who were making applications but would rather deal with the matter by way of a subsequent prosecution when a misstatement has been found, is that this could well have the effect of delaying the payment to bona fide applicants. I answer that question by giving merely my own interpretation of why I think this approach should be taken. I shall refer the question to the Minister for Social Security as the responsible Minister, obtain an appropriate answer from him and provide it to  Senator Davidson  as soon as possible. 
I must confess that I find it most curious to be now accused of conducting a premeditated campaign against insurance companies. I had not said a word about any insurance companies. I merely put forward the proposal that an Australian Government Insurance Corporation be established. I have been subjected to slanders throughout the length and breadth of Australia by representatives of the insurance companies. Completely unprovoked slanders are being delivered against my head from these people. I was involved in a meeting in Hobart but was deliberately misled as to the nature of the meeting that was to take place. It was subsequently televised on 'Monday Conference' where I was again subjected to organised hooliganism by these so-called life underwriters. 
I will answer the question; do not worry about that. It is now interesting to find that these insurance companies can hand it out but they cannot take it. They have been indulging in general abuse of me personally, the Prime Minister and the Labor Government in general. Now they realise that the people have woken up to them, their campaign has fizzled, and they have pulled off their television advertisements. They are now begging for mercy and saying: 'Please do not say anything against us'. I am going to continue and I am not going to be frightened by them because they are not worth worrying about. They are the most mediocre crowd of people I have ever had any dealings with in my life. 
To come back to the question that has been raised by  Senator Missen,  I have in no way encouraged members of the Australian Postal and Telecommunication Union to indulge in any boycott of anybody. I can understand their reaction. Like  Senator Missen,  I agree with free speech but I do not believe in purloining other people's money. I do not believe that  Sir Vincent  Fairfax and his fellow members of the board of the Australian Mutual Provident Society are entitled to make a deduction from the premiums paid by policy holders in that Society in order to wage a campaign against the Australian Government which was elected on this policy.  Mr Slater,  the General Secretary of the Australian Postal and Telecommunications Union, has put a submission to the Executive of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. My own hope is that they will not take this industrial action. I do not believe it would be proper if they did it. In any event, I believe it would be counterproductive because already the Australian people have seen through the spurious campaign of the insurance companies. We will be able to deal with them politically without having to resort to any other measures. 
I am sure that  Senator Bessell  would be just as surprised as everybody else if I were to be able to answer that question. I am afraid that I do not know the answers and I ask that he put the question on the notice paper. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: ( 1 ), (2), (3) and (4) I refer the honourable senator to the answer to Question No. 472 (Senate Hansard of 2 1 April 1975 at page 1183). 
I will refer the question to the Minister for Social Security. I am interested to learn that  Senator Townley,  who now is known as a member of the Liberal Party, believes that not enough is being done by way of public activity in the social welfare sector, a view which I thought would not have been shared by the Liberal Party spokesman on these matters in another place,  Mr Chipp.  I see that  Senator Wright  disagrees with both of them. As 1 understood the position in regard to pensioner medical service entitlement cards- I would have thought that  Senator Townley  would have understood this too- the introduction of Medibank will reduce - 
It may not be the point but that is  Senator Townley  's fault, not mine. He is the one who raised the problem of people on superannuation losing their pensioner medical service entitlement cards. I understood that is what he was asking me about. If he would like to ask me another question he can certainly do so, but the question he asked me was about the loss of pensioner medical service entitlement cards. I would have hoped that  Senator Townley  might be aware that with the introduction of Medibank there will not be any pensioner medical service cards to worry about, so his problem will be resolved. 
-The problem of the power, gas and transport concessions in Tasmania is a matter for the Tasmanian Government . Whatever anyone in this Government may think about what ought to be done about that in Tasmania, it is something which cannot be resolved here. If State governments wish to give those concessions, it is up to the Tasmanian 
Government or any other State government concerned to make such provisions. If they wish to continue to do so, 1 suggest that the matter be taken up within the State concerned. All I can say with regard to the other matters is that I will refer them to the Minister for Social Security and, when doing so, assure him that  Senator Townley  believes that there ought to be increased activity by the Government in the field of social services. 
-The answer is that it is not a statement of fact. Since I became Minister for Repatriation and Compensation I think I have spoken more to representatives of insurance companies than I have to my wife. I have been engaged in constant discussions with them on all sorts of issues. If I may say so, I have found the contributions which some of the representatives have made very useful.  Mr Le  Page, the  President  of the Council of Fire and Accident Underwriters, for example, has been very courteous and helpful. One of the actions which the former Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  took was to establish consultative committees of the life assurance industry and the general insurance industry. As a result of consultations I have had with them, amendments have been introduced in the House of Representatives to what was the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill, in order to apply the Insurance Acts and the Life Insurance Act to the Australian Government Insurance Corporation. Apart from that, as a result of representations from  Mr Lewis,  the Premier of New South Wales, it has been agreed to amend the Bill so that the name of the office will be the Australian Government Insurance Corporation so that there would be no confusion with the Government Insurance Office of New South Wales. That suggestion was made by  Mr Lewis,  and it was readily agreed to. 1 know that that document describes itself as having been prepared by the general insurance industry, but, as 20 per cent of insurance business is conducted by the State Government Insurance Offices, which are certainly not taking part, as far as I know, in these representations, that is not correct. Part of the difficulty has been that the representatives of the companies have offered total opposition to the establishment of the office. 
I am not disputing that, but it is a little difficult to engage in fruitful negotiations when it is Government policy, which has been adopted at 2 elections, to establish an office, while the policy of the companies is that there should be no office whatever. I am not saying that it is not their right to have that point of view, but it becomes a little pointless constantly meeting and arguing the toss backwards and forwards about whether or not there ought to be an office. Over recent weeks, the Council of Fire and Accident Underwriters and some others have made suggestions, some of which have been adopted, and at present I have some proposed amendments which have been sent to me at my request by that Council. I am studying these amendments, and I do not doubt that, were the Bill to be passed, a number of those amendments would be accepted. It is quite untrue to say that there has not been consultation. There has been extensive consultation. I have met representatives of a large number of companies, and some of them, including  Mr Le  Page and  Mr Pettigrew,  of Sun Alliance Insurance Ltd, have been extremely helpful, but others have not been helpful at all. If what they want is talking, certainly there must have been enough talking to fill the Doomsday Book. 
-Senator Marriott was good enough to let me know that he intended to ask this question this morning, and I have obtained an answer from the Minister for Social Security. It is a fact that an IBM 370/168 computer was purchased by the Department of Social Security for the following purposes: The development of the Medibank data processing system; the central development and maintenance of the social security benefits data processing systems operating on State based computers; the processing of health insurance statistics relating to the existing scheme; the processing of statistical analysis of social security benefits; the evaluation, development and maintenance of special and general purpose software to support all departmental computer systems; the development of management information systems and for assistance to other departments in  Canberra  requiring access to computer facilities. 
The computer was purchased in May 1974, that is a year ago, at a cost of $5,081,905.40. Open tenders were not called for the supply of the computer. The order was placed with IBM Australia on the basis of a certificate of inexpediency issued under Treasury regulations by the Australian Government Stores and Tender Board. 
-As the owner of 2 dogs and a cat I was as concerned as  Senator Mulvihill  on receiving this information about the spread of rabies and I promptly referred the matter to the Minister for Health who has provided me with an answer which I think does relate to a very important subject of concern. The answer which has been provided by the Minister for Health is to the following effect: The main risk of importing rabies into a country is by the importation of infected dogs, cats and certainundomesticated animals, for examples, monkeys. The following precautions are taken by the Government to prevent the introduction of rabies into Australia: Dogs and cats may be imported only from certain rabies free countries, namely, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland, Papua New Guinea, Fiji, Hawaii and Norfolk Island. Animals must have been resident for at least 6 months in these countries, not including any period spent in quarantine kennels. Direct importation from all other countries is prohibited. Apart from importations from New Zealand, a period of quarantine is imposed on all animals coming into Australia. 
For importations from the United Kingdom and Ireland the period is 2 to 3 months, depending on whether transportation is by sea or by air. For importations from other approved countries the quarantine period is 9 months. The reason for the shorter quarantine period for animals coming from the United Kingdom and Ireland is that procedures exist in those countries for rapid identification and notification of any cases of rabies that may occur there, thus permitting Australian quarantine requirements to be modified appropriately. Undomesticated rabiessusceptible animals may be imported only by registered zoos, circuses- of which we have seen a number just recently- and approved scientific institutions, and animals remain in permanent quarantine status while in Australia. Dogs, cats and other pets on any ships entering an Australian port must not leave the ship and the master of the ship is required to enter into a bond to this effect. Appropriate quarantine measures similar to the above exist in relation to importation of all other animals which may carry a slight or minimal risk in relation to the introduction of rabies. 
I appreciate that this is an important matter. If any honourable senators are aware of any breaches- all of us are concerned, particularly people engaged in agriculture- I would ask them to advise me so that I can pass the information to the Minister for Health. There is serious concern in Europe at the present time about a very alarming spread of rabies. I do not think it is a matter that can be treated too lightheartedly. I will immediately undertake to take action on this matter. 
I have referred the matter to the Minister for Social Security and I do not doubt that he is conferring with his departmental officers about it. However, I shall draw the matter to his attention again and I trust that there will be an early answer to this question which I realise has concerned  Senator Martin  and a great many other people for quite some considerable time. I think it would need to be borne in mind, however, that it is most likely that if anything is to be done in relation to this matter it may have to be done within the context of the next Budget, so it may well not be until later in this year that any firm announcement on the subject can be made. 
-Yes, I have seen the statement attributed to  Sir Vincent  Fairfax. After some of the flops at which he has been present lately, I do not wonder that he wants a truce. I do not know what he actually means by a truce. I think he probably means that if we drop the Bill he will stop campaigning against it. That is not the sort of truce which I am prepared to accept. I notice that he was reported in the 'Sydney Morning Herald'- I should imagine no one would have a closer association with the 'Sydney Morning Herald' than  Sir Vincent  Fairfax has- as saying: 
The debates in Parliament and through the media have become overheated by protestations, accusations and threats by the Government and some over-reaction and a few impulsive, defensive side swipes by the insurers. 
I was a little intrigued at his chronology of events. I had thought that one might have said in all justice and accuracy that the reverse had been the case- that the hysteria had come from another source and that there had been just a few sideswipes from the Government of an understandable and a very accurate nature. 
In answer to the question of what  Sir Vincent  Fairfax actually means by a truce, I am afraid I do not know.  Sir Vincent  has not communicated his remarks to me. Apparently he made them at a rather turbulent meeting of policy holders of the AMP Society which was held in Sydney yesterday. In fact, only a little over a week ago, when I agreed on a Sunday afternoon to meet representatives of the insurance offices, the representatives of the general insurance companies turned up in order to discuss with me amendments to the Bill, but nobody from any of the life offices turned up at all. So I will be interested to learn from  Sir Vincent  Fairfax, if he wants a truce, what the terms are. I suppose that if I see a white flag in Parkes Place I will know that it is  Sir Vincent  Fairfax about to approach me. 
-Certainly once Medibank becomes operative those doctors who bulk bill will, in conjunction with the Government, be providing a concession to those persons who make use of the medical services and are obtaining them free and not paying the additional 15 per cent. I am not quite sure what point  Senator Baume  is trying to make because the Government has made it quite clear that if a doctor does not wish to bulk bill he does not have to bulk bill and it is up to him to decide what he will do. I should imagine that the experience in similar practices overseas would be repeated here. It could well be that doctors will find it most convenient to bulk bill because the 15 per cent reduction in their charges may be more than compensated for by the savings which they would make in bookkeeping expenses, accounting and the various problems which they and other privately practising professional people have experienced in the collection of debts. 
If you say to somebody 'If we guarantee the payment of 85 per cent of your fee without your having to go through any rigmarole of billing people' I suppose it is a matter of terminology whether or not you are granting that person a concession or giving him a benefit. I certainly recall that when I was in practice as a lawyer I would have been very happy to be able to bulk bill somebody for 85 per cent of my bills of costs. I think that I would have been doing considerably better than I was doing when I was in practice. I do not know whether it is a concession. If the doctors, like  Senator Baume,  believe that there is a concession involved in this and that some unreasonable burdens are being imposed, there is nothing to prevent them from refusing to bulk bill and engaging in the other procedures which they are entitled to adopt under the legislation. 
-Senator Walsh did let me know that he would be asking this question, and I think it is something that does require a detailed answer. So far, officers of the Department of Repatriation and Compensation have conducted some 8270 interviews for claims for compensation for damage to households and 1073 interviews with people who are claiming compensation for damage to business premises and material. The Department estimates that there are still about 2600 household claims and about 500 business claims which are yet to be lodged. Of the claims which have been made, 1 176 have already been settled and the value of these claims amounts to $1.5m. It is fortunate that the Darwin Cyclone Damage Compensation Bill was not delayed in the Senate. It is now in the House of Representatives and it should no doubt be dealt with very promptly there. Many of the claims which have been received are for amounts which far exceed the guidelines which were outlined by me in introducing the Bill and they also exceed what I think anybody on either side of the Senate would think that the Government could reasonably be expected to pay. In these cases the initial compensation payments will be accompanied by an explanation as to why we are not paying the full amount claimed and they will be subject to a later review. 
Many claims have been made on the basis of replacement or repair cost. 
Compensation is not paid on this basis but on the market value of the property as at the date of its destruction or damage, a point which I must say is not always entirely easy either for me or for insurance companies to explain to their customers or the claimants. Several thousand claims are awaiting valuation by the Taxation Office, motor vehicle valuers and other experts in this field and work is progressing in these areas. It is obviously limited by the resources that are available in Darwin because naturally one of the consequences of the cyclone in Darwin is that the number of people there available to assess the damage that was done by the cyclone has been reduced. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in Hansard. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Professor Pennington of the Department of Medicine at Melbourne University, has completed a survey to determine what are ' normal ' and ' abnormal ' mercury levels in the Australian population. This survey was carried out in Melbourne in 1972 with the assistance of a grant from the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
The study by Professor Pennington was directed to the dietary intake of mercury from fish and fish products, and did not include the intake of mercury from other foods. Generally the level of mercury in foods is very low but in some cases particular organs tend to accumulate metals such as mercury. For example bovine liver and kidney tissue have been shown to have higher mercury levels than bovine muscle or flesh. Investigations are currently in an advanced stage to determine the mercury content of all foods. However, I am not aware of any current studies to determine the dietary source or sources of mercury of people with abnormally high levels of body mercury. 
I am not aware of any individuals in the Australian population who have shown symptoms attributed to mercury toxicity apart from cases of occupational exposure. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Considerable research has been completed into the proportion of methyl mercury as distinct from the total mercury content of Australian fish. In recent studies the proportion of methyl mercury present has been found to vary from 46 to 99 per cent of the total mercury present. 
The National Health and Medical Research Council in recommending a maximum permissible level of total mercury in fish took into consideration the methyl mercury toxicity factor. The standard was set recognising that in some cases almost all of the mercury present can be complexed as methyl mercury. 
No attempt has been made to use methyl mercury as the basis for the standard because, until recently, methyl mercury analysis was not reliable. The use of analytical methods to determine methyl mercury as a routine procedure is currently under examination. It must be pointed out however, that whilst methyl mercury is particularly dangerous all forms of mercury are toxic. 
I did not give any secret information to  Mr Hawke  but if I had given him any secret information I would not be passing it on to  Senator Greenwood. Senator Greenwood  says that I have been telling the Australian Labor Party's Executive one thing and the Parliament another thing. I should like him to be specific regarding what it is I have told anyone contrary to what I have said in the Parliament. I have not read  Mr Hawke  's statement and I believe that, possibly,  Senator Greenwood  has misunderstood it, if he has read it. If he is arguing that the establishment of Trans-Australia Airlines has meant that the airlines have been nationalised, he must have a very curious idea of the definition of 'nationalised ', because I thought that Ansett Airlines of Australia was still flying. I do not know what problems  Senator Greenwood  has had with  Mr Hawke,  but I suggest that he take them up with him. I stand by what I have said, namely, that the Australian Government Insurance Corporation will be a purely competitive insurance corporation along the same lines as the State Government insurance offices. 
-Senator Greenwood is becoming hysterical at a very early time in the day: The moon has not yet risen. What I have said is what I repeat, namely, that the Australian Government Insurance Corporation in its commercial activities will be completely competitive with other insurance offices and it will be engaging in fields of national interest insurance which are of vital importance to the Australian people but in which the private insurance offices have not engaged. 
I am sure that if there were any areas which were profitable and which were known to the insurance companies they would be most interested in them. I do not think that the Prime Minister said that there were profitable areas in which the insurance companies were not wishing to indulge. 1 am glad to see that the honourable senator is interested in this matter and I am pleased to get his support for the proposal, but the matters which the Prime Minister had in mind, to which attention has been drawn quite frequently, are those types of insurance which can be described as 'national interest insurance' and which cover, for example, floods. As  Senator Chaney  has raised the matter, it may well be remembered that  Sir Gordon  Chalk, the  Deputy  Premier and Treasurer in the Queensland Government and the Leader of the Liberal Party in that State, found himself in an unfortunate predicament after the Brisbane floods. Although apparently he had received finance for his house from the Queensland Government Insurance Office, he found that his house was not covered by any form of flood insurance. As the Prime Minister remarked at the time,  Sir Gordon  Chalk was left high and dry by the Brisbane floods. 
Those are the sorts of fields that we intend to consider. -There are also other areas, such as crop and livestock insurance. We know that there are problems in the field of crop and livestock insurance, but it is a field that is covered in other countries. The United States Government, for example, does make quite a major financial contribution towards the maintenance of crop and livestock insurance in the United States. I am sure that would be an additional reason for  Senator Chaney  to wish to emulate what is done in the United States as he would like to emulate most things American, particularly in regard to foreign policy. I think that should apply also to domestic policy. Those are the sorts of matters at which we are looking. They are matters that are not covered in this country because there is no profit in them for the private insurance companies but are covered in other countries, even countries with a much more uniform dedication to the capitalist system than is to be found in Australia. 
I have seen the advertisement. It would be difficult not to have seen it. There has been quite extensive advertising by the Hospital Benefits Association of Victoria in a number of newspapers in which it claims that it is offering 13 services which are not available under Medibank. I think it is rather interesting to note that in this regard the HBA is proposing that to get these benefits people who subscribe at present to the HBA continue to pay the present family rate of $ 1 .82 a week even after Medibank commences, despite the fact that the Minister for Social Security has said quite clearly that the Government would refuse to register any private health insurance fund which provided this socalled medical gap insurance of more than 1 5 per cent. From a study of the proposals made by the Victorian HBA, it would seem that the gap insurance which it would be offering would be up to 25 per cent. Thirteen benefits are offered by the HBA which, it claims, are not available under Medibank. They are physiotherapy, chiropody and various others including artificial limbs and a form of life insurance against death by accident for a sum of $2,500 for a member of the fund or the spouse of a member of the fund, which is certainly something which is not offered by Medibank but would be competing with the already hard-pressed private insurance companies. 
I think one needs to comment on some of these things. For example, the HBA says that it will provide artificial limbs. The fact is that since 1973 this Government, through my Departmentit was then the Department of Repatriation and subsequently became the Department of Repatriation and Compensation- has been providing free artificial limbs to anybody in the community who needs them. The service is certainly not covered by Medibank. There was no need to have it covered by Medibank. The free service is already available. Certainly some of the other services would seem to be well beyond the ambit of Medibank. If  Senator Poyser  would like to study the matter further I refer him to an article in the 'Age' of 23 May 1975. 1 know that the 'Age' is a newspaper which irritates  Senator Greenwood,  but it is not always very complimentary of me either. On 23 May the 'Age' pointed out that it would be very difficult to get a good return on yearly premiums amounting to $94.64. I think the concluding words of the writer really sum up the position regarding the offer by HBA. The article concluded: 
If I were an accident-prone, one-legged neurotic diabetic with ingrowing toenails, I would snap up the HBA offer. 
Yes. Yesterday I made a statement to the effect that I would be delaying the introduction of the Bill until next Tuesday. I will be doing that so that the Opposition parties, in conjunction with the various insurance companies, can have another look at the Bill. As honourable senators would be aware, a number of amendments already have been made to the Bill. The proposition I put forward is that if the Opposition believes that there are any problems - 
-Yes, it is. If there are any problems that the Opposition believes still exist with regard to lack of fairness of competition between the Australian Government Insurance Corporation and other offices I will be prepared to accept any amendments provided they are reasonable amendments and provided that the Bill is passed and not further delayed. 
I do not know what is bothering  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. If he wants to deal with it today I will be happy to do so. I am giving the Opposition an extra week's opportunity to have a look at the matter and I am saying that I will be prepared to accept any amendments that are made provided the substance of the Bill- that is, the establishment of such an office- is retained. 
I present the report and transcript of evidence from the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on its inquiry into the Omega navigational installation. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to move a motion that the Senate take note of the report. 
-Speaking as a petit bourgeois with strong proletarian sympathies, I have investigated this matter, which was drawn to my attention by  Senator Mulvihill.  Only two of the Repatriation General Hospitals employ a fire service. They are the Concord hospital in Sydney and the Heidelberg hospital in Melbourne. These people are paid at the rate for orderlies, plus a margin for the additional duties that they fulfil as fire officers. A claim has been made by the Hospital Employees Federation in New South Wales, which is the union that covers these fire officers and other employees of my Department in the Concord hospital, to the effect that they should be paid at the same rate as the members of the New South Wales Fire Brigade. Representatives of the Hospital Employees Federation discussed the matter with some members of my staff last month. On the 20th of this month there was a meeting between the representatives of the Hospital Employees Federation, officers of the Department of Repatriation and Compensation and officers of the Public Service Board, the latter being responsible for the determinations. As honourable senators would know, my Department is not the responsible body. 
Apparently there is disagreement between the Public Service Board and the Hospital Employees Federation over this matter. The Public Service Board argues that the duties of the fire officers employed in hospitals are not strictly comparable with those of the members of a fire brigade, in that they are not required to engage in such matters as proceeding from one place to another when fire breaks out or, as  Senator Mulvihill  has just indicated in a non-verbal manner, sliding down poles and doing things of that kind; and in fact that it is generally the case that it is only on average about 7 minutes before a fire brigade arrives to deal with any fire that breaks out. For that reason the Public Service Board- I am merely repeating what the Public Service Board apparently says; I have no responsibility in this matter- is reluctant to grant the claims of the Hospital Employees Federation. However, the Hospital Employees Federation has said that there will be a stoppage of the fire staff at the 
Concord hospital next week if the claims are not met. If this is the case, naturally the Public Service Arbitrator will be called in. I do not know that there is anything that I can add to that, because this will then be a matter between the Board and the Hospital Employees Federation for determination by the Public Service Arbitrator. As soon as I have some information arising from that meeting I shall let  Senator Mulvihill  know. 
-I am not quite sure what  Senator Hall  is implying when he uses the words 'the real significance'. The name was changed as a result of a request from the Premier of New South Wales, who wrote to the Prime Minister saying that he believed that there would be confusion in his own State. I readily concurred, as did the Prime Minister and the Government, not only that there would be confusion in New South Wales but also that there could well be confusion in other States. If in New South Wales, for example, there was the Government Insurance Office of New South Wales and the Australian Government Insurance Office, one could well imagine that that could create some confusion. So the Government agreed to change the name from 'Australian Government Insurance Office' to 'Australian Government Insurance Corporation' in order to eliminate that confusion. I am not sure that I know what  Senator Hall  is driving at; but, if he thinks that there is some sinister motive involved in that, I suggest that he ought to take up the matter with  Mr Lewis.  It was at his request that we did it. 
-The report to which  Senator Bessell  refers was a series of proposals put forward by various private general insurance companies. The crux of their proposition was that the Australian Government should foot the bill for national interest and/or natural disaster insurance but that the general insurance companies should act as agents for the Government and pick up a fee for providing a government service. That, I think, is in short what they were saying. It did not strike me and it did not strike the Government as being a terribly attractive proposition that we should merely hand out commissions to general insurance companies to administer a service which the Australian Government was providing. If we were going to do that we might just as well do it with every other government department and allow the general insurance companies to handle the whole social security system, age pensions and everything else. If we are going to engage in matters such as national interest insurance then we believe that we ought to be handling them. There is no justification for paying various profit making bodies to administer them. 
However, I have made it quite clear in the meetings that I have had with the representatives of the general insurance offices that it is not proposed under the Bill which is at present before the Parliament to exclude general insurance companies from engaging in national interest insurance. We intend to see that national interest insurance is provided; we believe that great many people who ought to be covered are not covered at the present time. The general insurance companies have had something like 100 years, or more than 100 years, operation in Australia in which to come up with some ideas, and the best they have been able to do is to suggest that they should collect a commission from us when we provide this type of insurance. If they can come up with some suggestions as to how they can work in co-operation with the Australian Government Insurance Corporation and share the risks as well as the profits, then we are certainly prepared to discuss those matters with them. I do not believe there is anything in the present Bill which precludes them from taking part in those activities. If there is anything in the 
Bill which does appear to preclude them from taking part in those activities I would be perfectly happy to accept any amendments which the Opposition or anybody else puts forward to make it clear that they can participate with the Australian Government Insurance Corporation in these activities, provided that this does not inhibit the passage of the Bill. 
I understand that this matter arises from some criticisms of private insurance companies in South Australia on the grounds that they do not pay regard to the safety records of various employers in the provision of workers' compensation insurance. However, I think I have to say several things on this question. The first is that difficulties are involved in providing for the taking into account of safety records in the fixing of premiums. For example, if somebody is engaged in a hazardous occupation, such as mining and quarrying or building and construction, as compared with a relatively unhazardous occupation, such as the retail trade or employing clerical workers, the more hazardous occupation may in fact be more socially necessary than the unhazardous occupation, but of its nature it is more dangerous. If one takes into account a safety record it may well mean- in fact it does mean- that one will be charging higher premiums to the people who are engaged in these more hazardous trades and enterprises. 
With regard to whether the Australian Government Insurance Corporation would engage in workers' compensation in South Australia or anywhere else, my own hope is that there will be at least some form of national compensation scheme, which would mean that no insurance offices at all would be engaging in this activity. If, however, there is no national compensation scheme and if, for example, the Australian Government Insurance Corporation is established without the establishment of a national compensation scheme, the provision of workers ' compensation insurance will be a matter for the Board of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation to determine. Unless we reach a stage where workers' compensation insurance is regarded as being a matter of national interest insurance- I do not think that is very likely- the provision of workers' compensation insurance would fall within the commercial activities of the AGIC. The Bill provides that the commercial activities of the AGIC would be conducted along ordinary business lines with independence given to the Board to determine in which way it will carry out this business. So, although one may have hopes as to what the Corporation may or may not do, I think it has to be said that it will be an independent corporation. 
My own view on the question of safety and industrial conditions whereby accident prevention may be encouraged is more along the lines of the report of  Mr Justice  Woodhouse and  Mr Justice  Meares which recommended the establishment of a national safety office and provision of adequate penalties by way of prosecution for those people who breach safety rules, rather than by the imposition of differential rates of premiums on the various insured persons. I repeat that a man may not be a bad employer or a careless employer but it may just be that he is engaged in a trade in which accidents are more likely than in some other trade, and if his work is socially necessary I am not entirely sure that it is just to be charging him a higher rate of premium. This is the type of thing that is taken into account in the - 
-At the moment I am not. I was saying that I thought there was a certain injustice in saying that people who are engaged in hazardous industries should be paying higher premium rates than those who are not engaged in hazardous industry if the work in which they are engaged is socially necessary and if the hazard arises not from their carelessness but from the nature of their work, such as building and construction. I did not say that workmen's compensation ought to be classified as national interest insurance. I said that I thought it ought to be subject to a national compensation scheme. I said that in the absence of a national compensation scheme I suppose it is conceivable that somebody could determine that workers' compensation, if it were completely unprofitable, should be proclaimed as a national interest activity of insurance, but I would imagine that this would be highly unlikely and very remote. I cannot envisage this happening. It would seem to me that if there is no national compensation scheme workmen's compensation would continue to be as it is- a commercial insurance activity. I hope that answers  Senator McLaren's  question and the question asked by  Senator Guilfoyle. 
I am not altogether clear on what the honourable senator is asking me when he talks about people having to continue in employment. We have honoured our promises with regard to social security. I thought the complaint of the honourable senator and the people in the Party he has recently joined was that the Government was engaging in too much public expenditure. However, I now note that he is putting forward the proposition that we are not spending enough. We will honour our promise and we will deal with all of these matters when we come to discuss the Budget, but I certainly do not intend to discuss the Budget now. 
I appreciate the problem that is raised by  Senator Baume  's question but 1 am afraid that, as the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, I do not have the answer readily available. I will refer the question to the Minister for Social Security in the hope that a reply will be obtained as soon as possible. 
-For the information of honourable senators I present the minutes of the sixteenth meeting of the Australian Water Resources Council held in Melbourne on 30 August 1 974. Due to the limited numbers available, reference copies have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
in reply- I feel that I have answered all the questions that have already been asked. There is no need for me to say anything except that the Government would regard the carriage of this outrageous amendment that has been moved by  Senator Cotton  as a failure to pass the Bill. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Cotton's amendment)  be left out. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes, in a press release dated 16 April 1975,I stated that in States which entered the Medibank hospital arrangements, people would be automatically covered for the cost of standard ward care. 
Under the Medibank hospital agreement, the State is to undertake to provide free standard ward accommodation and treatment without means test in recognised hospitals to all persons seeking such treatment. Recognised hospitals will generally be those public hospitals currently approved for the purposes of payment of Australian Government hospital benefits under the National Health Act. A list of recognised hospitals in the State is to be included in the agreement document concluded with each State. 
I think I should say that there are 2 industrial organisations which represent the employees of insurance companies. One is the Australian Insurance Staffs Federation and the other is the Australian Mutual Provident Society Staff Association. The former organisation covers the administrative and clerical staff employed by almost all the life and general insurance offices in Australia. The AMP Society Staff Association covers the administrative and clerical staff employed by the AMP Society which, as we know, is not only the biggest life office but the biggest insurance office of any kind in Australia both in the amount of funds it has available and in the size of the staff employed. It is interesting to note, as  Senator Button  has said, that despite the allegedly spontaneous demonstrations which have been taking place throughout Australia the democratically elected executives of both organisations have at no stage expressed opposition to the establishment of an 
Australian Government Insurance Corporation. I received a letter from the General Secretary of the AMP Society Staff Association. 
Opposition senators- Oh! 
I notice that members of the Opposition are being very derogatory about the AMP Society Staff Association. Apparently they do not regard that Association as representing the employees of the Society. I suggest that if that is their view they take it up with members of the AMP Society Staff Association who, as I understand it, are very well satisfied with the representation which is given to them by the elected officials of their organisation. 
-Of course, they would not be saying things which would satisfy  Senator Drake-Brockman.  The General Secretary of the AMP Society Staff Association,  Mr R.  G. Butler, wrote to me on 7 May last and asked a number of questions about the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Corporation. In that letter he asked also, on behalf of his Association, that there be a public inquiry into the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Corporation. Since that time officers of my Department and I have been in touch with  Mr Butler,  the General Secretary of the AMP Society Staff Association. On 19 May 1975 he issued a bulletin of the AMP Society Staff Association in which he said: 
The Association has now received satisfactory replies to all the questions included in that letter. 
That refers to the letter which he wrote to me. In the bulletin he continued: 
It is the view of the Federal Executive of the Staff Association that the Australian Government Insurance Corporation will compete fairly with the present insurance industry and that, therefore, jobs of our members are not endangered by this particular piece of legislation. 
I am grateful for the action that was taken by the AMP Society Staff Association. 
Yes, I am.  Senator Drake-Brockman  does not like the members of that association, but I prefer to deal with the workers in that industry, including members of the Australian Insurance Staffs Federation. The action of these 2 organisations has given the lie to the claims that the phoney demonstrations throughout Australia in any way represent the view of workers in the insurance industry. 
I was not aware that there was all this confusion. I am afraid none of my chemist acquaintances has expressed any confusion to me and I am distressed to learn that there is this confusion. What we are doing is inserting newspaper advertisements and advertisements on television explaining Medibank. I understood we were upsetting members of the Opposition by doing so. I should like the Opposition to let us know- if they can make up their minds- whether they want us to publicise the Medibank benefits that are available and say how they can be obtained or whether they want us not to advertise Medibank at all, because both propositions are put to me from time to time by the Opposition. As far as possible, we are trying, within the resources of our budget, to make people aware of the benefits of Medibank. I do not know that we can do anything other than that. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill is to provide the legislative authority for the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Corporation. The name has been changed at the suggestion of the Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Lewis,  and the amendment was accepted by the House of Representatives. The proposal is entirely consistent with the Government's determination to assist at all levels the day-to-day activities of all Australians. Insurance is, or should be, an essential concern for every citizen. Disasters in Brisbane and Darwin have demonstrated this in tragic and costly ways. The victims, and the insurers, are now aware of this. The AGIC will be a factor in helping to provide protection against similar situations in the future. The AGIC in the field of commercial insurance will encourage fair- and I stress fair- competition. As a matter of first priority it will develop a superior service to the ordinary householder and home owner in Australia. The AGIC will provide the widest possible range of insurance at the lowest possible premiums. The beneficiaries will be the Australian people. It will be a similar Government business and undertaking to the Commonwealth Banking Corporation. It is a long time since the principle of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation has been questioned or challenged by any member of any party in either chamber of the Australian Parliament. 
Apart from activity in the normal fields covered by insurance companies now operating in Australia, the AGIC will be the agent for and adviser to the Australian Government on the provision of non-commercial insurance which is now not covered by any insurance office in Australia. In this role the AGIC will facilitate the provision of natural disasters coverage for all Australians. 
In its general and life insurance business, the AGIC will be structured and will operate on competitive and commercial lines. Any claim that it will be given an unfair advantage over its competitors is wrong. As with private companies, it will be subject to all Australian and State taxes. Similarly, if it is to receive concessional taxation treatment on its earnings, the AGIC will be required to observe the 30-20 rule regarding investment in securities. The AGIC should not only compete on equal terms, but it should also be seen to be competing on equal terms. It was for this reason that the AGIC was made subject to the Insurance Act, and the Life Insurance Act. In other words, the Government's objective is to place the Australian Government Insurance Corporation in activities other than national interest insurance on the same footing as commercial insurance companies transacting business both nationally and internationally. Honourable senators will note that because of our insistence on fair competition, the AGIC will be required to operate under much less favourable conditions than those applying to State Government insurance offices. 
The AGIC will provide to the people of Australia the same services at competitive rates as existing companies and in some instances services additional to those already available. There are some- and they belong to the industry rather than the millions whom the industry serviceswho claim that this proposal for the establishment of the AGIC is an intrusion into the private sector. Those critics, and many of the members of the Opposition who seem to have been convinced by them, should be reminded that the Australian Government over many years, not just under the Labor Party, has been heavily involved in the insurance field. Private insurers already depend on Australian Government legislation for the continuing profitability and stability of their businesses. One example only is the favourable taxation treatment afforded to the life insurance offices as compared with other financial institutions at the expense of the Australian taxpayer. They know that up to $ 1 ,200 of income tax is not taxable if paid into life insurance or superannuation. They have been to the doors of Ministers of this Government to ensure that this preference remains. This taxation inducement, worth an estimated $180m annually, has been one of the most significant factors responsible for the large increase in the numbers of policy holders in recent years. It is from these profits that some companies are apparently financing the ineffective and expensive campaign which has so misfired and reacted against them. Because of this they have directed a new campaign at the senators opposite which may also have the same reverse effects, particularly in the eyes of the Australian people. 
There has been much said recently by members of the industry that an AGIC will not follow sound investment policies. A study of the investment policies of some companies would reveal that if they had made more funds available to the private sector of manufacturing, instead of concentration in real estate, then the economy would have been better served. I believe the Board of the AGIC will follow a wise investment program which will benefit the policy holders, the private sector, and the Australian people far more than some existing insurance offices. 
Insurance offices have long held to old myths and have been reluctant to face new realities in a changing world which so desperately requires up to date thinking and planning. This view has recently been expressed by a visiting British insurance expert in an article published in the Insurance and Banking Record'. It is also clear that insurance offices have diverted their funds away from their policy holders, away from the provision of housing loans; this is revealed in the annual reports of the Life Insurance Commissioner. These reports show that investment of statutory funds of life offices in property rose from 8 per cent in 1963 to 18 per cent in 1973; whereas housing loans fell from 12 per cent in. 1963 to 6 per cent in 1973. In fact, the incentives and protections provided by the Australian Government have built the insurers into a colossus, propped up and dependent on the Australian Government. The life offices seem not to appreciate, or perhaps appreciate all too well, their dependence on the Australian Government. As soon as the winds of change begin to blow, this colossus immediately complains of its alleged ill-treatment. 
Clearly, closer interaction between the insurance industry and Government is required. On 4 April the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  announced the establishment of 2 insurance consultative committees, one each for the general and life insurance industries. Leading members of the general and life insurance industries together with representatives of the Australian Insurance Staffs' Federation are represented on the committees. On 7 May  Dr Cairns  chaired an initial joint meeting of the consultative committees which discussed the implications of the AGIC for the industry. I chaired a further meeting on Sunday, 1 1 May, at which I undertook that as a result of representations from the Federation and the general insurance industry I would be prepared to propose to the Government amendments to the Bill making AGIC specifically subject to the Insurance Acts 1973 and the Life Insurance Act 1945-1973. Subsequently, the Government sponsored amendments to this effect in the House of Representatives. The Government has been quite forthcoming in its attempts to understand and appreciate the problems which need to be faced in relation to insurance in Australia. I hope these committees will continue to play a constructive role after the AGIC has been established and I say this despite the alarmist and extreme reaction of sections of the insurance industry. Again I would emphasise that the insurance industry is vast and complex and the AGIC will contribute considerably toward meeting problems some industry members may face either by providing reinsurance facilities, participating in high risk insurance pools, or by retrocession of incoming re-insurance business. In addition, I see no reason why the skilled officers of the AGIC might not also contribute expertise to their industry colleagues. 
Government involvement in insurance is not new. Might I remind honourable senators opposite that State government insurance offices have long been involved- profitably and effectivelyin the field of insurance. Policy holders have benefited and private insurers have been given salutary competition and have not suffered from this involvement. This is despite earlier claims, hysterical claims, that the establishment of State government offices would lead to a monopoly forcing private insurers out of business. I need not add that these predictions sound empty in retrospect, particularly when the premium charges of State offices are compared with those of private insurers. Two most successful Government insurance offices, both providing general insurance and life assurance, are operating in Queensland and New South Wales- non-Labor States for many years. What most State-operated offices have achieved has been the discouragement of management practices among private insurers which are to the financial detriment of their policy holders. I refer to the expensive practice of placing reliance on competitive salesmanship rather than competitive premiums. 
The next point to ask is whether State government insurance offices provide an adequate system of insurance for all Australians. The answer varies from State to State. In New South Wales and Queensland all types of insurance, including life, are available. However, in the remaining States only general insurance is provided. In Victoria not even homeowners and householders insurance is available. To the extent therefore that State government insurance offices engender a more competitive climate as regards premiums in their respective States, people may still be prejudiced because of their residence in a particular State where State insurance office activities are not as comprehensive as elsewhere. 
I believe it is essential that this legislation be approved now because of the amount of preparation necessary before the AGIC will be able to offer policies to the Australian people. The Prime Minister's undertaking to establish an Australian Government Insurance Office was endorsed by the electorate over a year ago. A committee of experts drawn from 10 Australian Government departments, including the Treasury, with advice from the Life Insurance Commissioner and the Insurance Commissioner, who are the officers appointed by Parliament to supervise the industry, recommended favourably to the Government on the establishment of an insurance office. No reservation was placed as to timing. It will take several months for a Board to be appointed and supporting staff to be recruited. Only at that point will the Board be able to undertake all the actuarial and economic studies which are vital for it to be in a position to enter specific lines of insurance business. Normal procedures require a considerable amount of time. If to this the Opposition adds further forced delays, thus preventing the Government from implementing this electoral promise, they will be responsible for rejecting the expressed will of the people. 
On the other hand, no compelling reasons have been given as to why the legislation should be delayed. It is quite a simple proposal involving a minimum of funds. Its establishment does not mean that private or State offices will disappear, or even decline. The situation is analogous to the foundation of the Commonwealth Bank in 1912. State banks have continued to grow and prosper in all States except Queensland. Private banks have also grown strongly and diversified their activities. The situation should be no different with the Government's insurance activities. The Australian Government Insurance Corporation can go further than this. It can become a leader in its field in Australia- on behalf of the Australian people. While our present insurance system in some instances leads to the channelling of Australian money to foreign countries through overseas firms now dominant here, a vigorous Australian Government enterprise, through reciprocal activities in the re-insurance field, will attract foreign insurance business to Australia's advantage. As many honourable senators are aware, a great deal of Australia's re-insurance business is placed with large overseas companiesin Britain, Switzerland and Germany. It is true that in recent times some of these professional re-insurers overseas have deigned to establish locally incorporated companies. However, the foreign giants which dominate this specialised and highly active field of insurance in Australia have little interest in returning, through reciprocal business to Australia, funds generated by their overseas parent companies. 
The Australian Government will increase the re-insurance facilities within our own country. This will enable the AGIC to play a role at home- and overseas- similar to that of the European countries in the insurance field. It will help reduce the flow of funds out of Australia, while at the same time providing the potential to increase the flow of funds into Australia. In the longer term, an AGIC operating in this way could well assist Australia's balance of payments. The Australian owned insurance companies will surely welcome the entry of the AGIC into the important re-insurance field. Australian people most certainly will. As income to the AGIC from these areas of activity is generated more quickly and in larger proportions than from some other classes of insurance, the flow of such income into the Australian economy will benefit all Australians. Less than 2 years ago the level of foreign ownership of general insurance business conducted in Australia was nearly 46 per cent. The Australian share was bolstered by the activities of Government insurance enterprise which represented some 20 per cent of the general insurance business. Again, Australian owned insurance companies must surely welcome a thriving AGIC. Why indeed should the entry of the AGIC be at their cost at all? Why should Australian owned companies be vociferous about potential competition from the AGIC when they have been silent about growing competition from foreign companies? The AGIC will bolster Australian ownership and by its status as a national corporation be able to provide services presently only available on foreign insurance markets. This would lessen the potential for further foreign dominance in the local insurance industry. 
The Bill provides that the AGIC will be constituted as a statutory corporation managed by a Board of seven; five of these will be part-time members, one of whom will be Chairman. The other members, the General Manager and Deputy General Manager, will be full-time members. In this regard, the Government will be looking to the existing industry to recruit the most highly qualified staff available. On 15 April 1974 I gave an assurance to the Senate. I have since repeated that assurance and I repeat it again. The Government will do all that is possible to allow the Australian Insurance Staffs' Federation to cover comparable staff in the AGIC, and to give employment preference in it to the people employed in the insurance industry without prejudice to the rights of employees in existing Australian Government insurance undertakings. 
The AGIC will be an approved authority for the purpose of the Superannuation Act. The Officers' Rights Declaration Act will apply to those members of the staff of the office who formerly held office, under other statutes or within the Public Service. Staff will be appointed by the Board of the AGIC. The terms and conditions will also be determined by that Board, subject to approval by the Public Service Board. The AGIC Board will do all things possible to foster the latest management techniques, consistent with humane principles, to achieve the greatest possible satisfaction for its staff, and for the policy holders which it serves. The AGIC will be a commercial undertaking which will require and will get imaginative, dynamic management by people of initiative and vision. 
I am already on record as having said that there will be no discriminatory practices in relation to recruiting female staff to all levels of the AGIC. Women will have equal employment rights and opportunities as men. I strongly supported the Prime Minister when he said that the Government will encourage the AGIC to extend to women the same opportunity to take out policies as men now enjoy. I again reaffirm that statement. Discrimination must stop. How better than to begin with an AGIC which would certainly not engage in discriminatory practices? 
The Bill specifies that the finance of the AGIC will be provided with an initial capital of $800,000 and it will be entitled to an advance of $lm. The AGIC will be required to pay dividends on its capital and interest on the $lm loan. Compared with many of its competitors the AGIC will be very small but, in setting the finance available to it, the Government has acted in what it feels is in its best interest of financial prudence. Accounts of the AGIC are to be maintained as for any commercial entity and are to be subject to audit by the Auditor-General and placed as a charge against the Corporation. The liabilities of the AGIC will be guaranteed by the Australian Government in the same way as the respective State Governments guarantee State Government insurance activities. This guarantee will be in addition to the strict solvency requirements of the Insurance Acts and the life Insurance Act and policy holders can be assured of real security. 
The AGIC will be authorised to undertake all forms of insurance, both general and life, including superannuation business and re-insurance. It will be required to invest its reserves in the interests of its policy holders and will not be subject to any Government direction in this regard. The Australian Government will not exercise controls over the AGIC's investments. All investments will be made to ensure the best returns in the interests of policy holders. This is the major criterion which will be observed by the AGIC in deciding its investment policy. 
It will be empowered to own property. It will be able to lend, but borrowing will require the approval of the Treasurer. In other words, the investment policy of the AGIC will be determined independently of governmental or ministerial instruction. But I stress that from its insurance and re-insurance underwriting activities I expect that funds available for investment will greatly benefit the economy progressively. 
In its commercial operations, I stress that the Corporation will be required to follow sound commercial principles. This is stated quite explicitly in clause 34. It will be free to determine the terms and conditions of its contracts, set premium rates and make such other commercial decisions as it deems necessary. In doing this it will operate as its competitors do. It will be free from ministerial control in its commercial operations, but it will be required to keep the Minister informed on matters of policy. The AGIC will have power to enter into agency agreements, whether as principal or agent, and to conduct business outside of Australia. 
The Corporation, similarly to existing insurance offices, will have authority to acquire the whole or a part of other insurance undertakings subject, of course, to the provisions of any other applicable legislation. If, after inquiry, the Board of the AGIC reports to the Minister that a class of risk cannot be made available on a commercial basis regulations may prescribe that it is in the national interest that such insurance should be available. 
In respect of business undertaken under the national interest provisions, the Bill provides that such business should be treated on a noncommercial basis and, in respect of such businsess the AGIC will not be liable to taxation. The Government proposes that the establishment of a special national interest division be examined immediately by the AGIC. This division will be authorised to undertake specific national interest insurance business of a non-commercial nature in specific fields such as crop and livestock insurance or in other fields which may develop during the progression of time which the industry might determine as non-commercial and seek Government assistance in solving the problem at that time. Such operations would be entirely separate from the AGIC's other activities. It would be quite unreasonable if the AGIC were to be limited to the non-commercial, national interest fields of insurance. The Australian Government could not tolerate a situation in which the profitable areas of insurance remain the exclusive domain of the private insurance sector, leaving the AGIC restricted to the national interest field. 
The establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Corporation is in line with developments overseas. The Governments of New Zealand, India, Israel and the United States of America, to name but a few, are already involved to varying degrees in providing insurance to their citizens, and some, but not all, include natural disaster insurance. The United Kingdom, Sweden, France, Japan, Sri Lanka and Canada provide some form of crop and livestock insurance. The New Zealand experience is highly relevant. The New Zealand Government Life Insurance Office was set up in 1869. The State Insurance Office carrying out general insurance business commenced in 1905. In 1944 a Commission was established to provide earthquake and war damage insurance. 
One of the objectives of the Government in setting up the Corporation will be to seek a rationalisation of insurance business conducted by the Australian Government and Australian Government instrumentalities. At present, Australian Government insurance activities include insurance in respect of defence service homes provided within the Defence Service Homes Act; mortgage loans insurance in respect of low cost housing provided by the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation under the Housing Loans Insurance Act; insurance provided by the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation in respect of a highly specialised field covering Australian exports; and insurance provided by the Commonwealth Banking Corporation as a service for clients who are financing the purchase of their homes or other property through their bank. 
The Government is of the view that insurance presently provided under the Defence Service Homes Act would be brought under the AGIC. The Bill as presented to the Parliament, however, does not specifically include this aspect at present, for as honourable senators are aware, the defence service homes scheme is being transferred to the Australian Housing Corporation and substantial changes are occurring. The Government wishes to retain the housing loans insurance scheme in its present form but administered by the AGIC. As honourable senators are aware, this is a scheme whereby the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation provides insurance cover to lending institutions, including banks, building societies, credit unions, and other organisations. This insures lending institutions against the risks of loss of the value of the loans made available by them. 
The Housing Loans Insurance Corporation assists people to obtain low deposit loans to acquire houses by insuring the repayment of housing loans of up to 95 per cent of the valuation of the property. This means that lenders can make low deposit loans with exactly the same degree of safety as loans where borrowers provide substantial equities. I am sure that honourable senators are aware of the degree of success of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation. It is an eminently successful organisation and I can assure them that it is the Government's wish that it should continue. Therefore its administration will be taken over by the AGIC in its present form. Legislation to this effect has been introduced separately. Since its establishment in 1965, it has been exempt from income tax and stamp duty, but has paid payroll tax and other levies in respect of its operations. This arrangement is to remain undisturbed. The amendment of the Housing Loans Insurance Act leaves intact those provisions which control the size and type of loan that may be issued. This will ensure that the special treatment accorded these housing loans will remain. 
The Government is of the view that the insurance service provided by the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation is a specialised service in a particular field and is integral to the Government's export policies. It should therefore be undertaken as at present under the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation Act. Similarly, the service provided by the Commonwealth Banking Corporation to its clients is to be left in the hands of the Bank and conducted in its present form. 
The Bill provides that it will take effect on a date to be proclaimed. There remains a great deal of further planning before the Australian Government Insurance Corporation can open its doors. Apart from appointments to the Board and staff there will be the general planning of operations strategies for the organisation and the further development of those special areas related to Defence Service Homes and to the Housing Loans Insurance Scheme. The enactment of this legislation will enable this further planning to proceed with a view to the provision of additional services in both commercial and non-commercial fields to the benefit of Australia. Assurances given by the Government together with the safeguards contained in the Bill should convince the insurance industry that there is nothing to fear. In fact, progressive benefit to the industry as a whole could well be obtained from the establishment of an AGIC. 
As I have outlined earlier, the Corporation will provide badly needed additional areas of insurance protection which are not presently available from the Australian insurance industry. It will create job opportunities for members of the industry. It will provide re-insurance facilities for the industry. It will contribute to the Australian economy. It will attract overseas revenue which by the very nature of re-insurance and retrocession may well be passed to members of the local industry. It will contribute to the breaking of any monopolistic practices that presently exist. There has never been a better time for an AGIC than now. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Cotton)  adjourned. 
Motion (by  Senator Wheeldon)  proposed: 
Thai the resumption of the debate be made an order of the day for the next day  of sitting 
It seems to me that  Senator Hall  is undertaking a sort of pincer operation against the Liberal Party of Australia. Sometimes he is outflanking its members from the left. Today he is outflanking them from the right.  Senator Cotton  is sitting here like a chestnut surrounded by a pair of tongs wielded by  Senator Hall,  the simultaneous left wing Liberal and right wing conservative.  Senator Hall  has raised a couple of points which ought to be commented upon. He said that I have been critical of the use of funds by mutual societies. I have been, but not because they are mutual societies. My criticism was based solely on the use of funds by mutual societies for political purposes in supporting a particular political party. I have not criticised them because they were mutual societies. The other point which he has made is that the Government can, under the taxation law, do various things to the life offices. That is the case already. Whether there is an Australian Government Insurance Corporation or not, a suitable amendment to the various taxation Acts would enable us to do that. Interesting though this point that  Senator Hall  has discovered may be, it is quite irrelevant to the Bill. 
I am pleased that even  Senator Hall,  in the new military uniform which he is wearing today and which he apparently prefers to his populist farmer's suit which he wears on other occasions, has not talked about nationalisation. He did not say that somehow or other the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Corporation is part of our plans for nationalisation. I do not run away from the Australian Labor Party's policy, but 1 would ask anybody who raises this question- I am pleased that even  Senator Hall  would not do that- how it would be in any way easier to nationalise private insurance companies, if that was one's intention, whether there was an Australian Government Insurance Corporation or not. If one decided to nationalise the private companies and one had the numbers in both Houses of Parliament, one could do it without having an Australian Government Insurance Corporation. 
I might be subject to some doubt, and that is an affliction that has never befallen  Senator Wright. Senator Hall  asked why one needs an additional government insurance office if the State government insurance offices are providing a full range of services. The answer is that only 2 government insurance offices are providing anything like a full range of services. They are in the States of  Mr Lewis  and  Mr Bjelke-Petersen;  they are in no other States. Neither of those gentlemen has at any stage suggested that he intends to close the life or general insurance offices in his State- the States of New South Wales or Queensland. 

 Senator Cotton has asked whether there could be a direction of funds. He said that the second reading speech has not dealt with a direction of funds. The second reading speech has not dealt with it because the Bill gives no authority for a direction of funds. We have no more ability under this Bill to direct the funds of other insurance offices than we have already. There is absolutely no provision in this Bill relating to a direction of funds. 
-Senator Cotton is talking about hypothetical legislation which may be introduced, but that would already be the case in any event. I say with respect to  Senator Cotton,  for whom I have great respect, that some subsequent tax Act amendment which would provide for a direction of funds has nothing to do with this Bill. Interesting though that possibility is, it is quite irrelevant to this Bill. We will in no way be more able or less able by tax Act amendments to direct funds if there is an Australian Government Insurance Corporation or not. 
The last point which I come to, and which is the point which has agitated  Senator Cotton's  mind greatly, is the presence of the 50 000 signatures on the petitions. On the figures with which I have been provided, less than half the members of the Liberal Party have signed the petitions, if its boasts of membership are correct. I think it amounts to one Australian in every 26 000 having placed his John Hancock, as the expression goes, on these interesting pieces of paper which have been presented to them. It does not seem to be awfully many, 50 000 people, when we consider the millions of Australian electors who voted for the Australian Labor Party on a policy of establishing an Australian Government Insurance Corporation. When I heard all these petitions read out I thought there were more, but I find that only 50 000 people have signed these petitions. With all the time that has been taken in this chamber listening to the petitions being read, it reminds one of that old saying that it was an unconscionable amount of water for such a small amount of me '. The Government does not believe that further study of this measure is needed. 
-I agree completely with  Senator Hall  on this point. I think he is right. He understands the position completely, without having read the second reading speech. If 

 Senator Hall can understand the position without having read the second reading speech, surely  Senator Cotton  can understand it as he has read the second reading speech. I agree completely with  Senator Hall  on this matter. The Government does not accept any deferment of this Bill. We will regard the carrying of this motion as a failure to pass the Australian Government Insurance Corporation Bill. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Cotton's amendment)  be left out. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill is to provide for the affairs of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation to be administered by the Australian Government Insurance Corporation. The Housing Loans Insurance Corporation, or HLIC as it is commonly called, was established by the previous Government in 1965 to assist people to obtain homes at reasonable rates of interest and on low deposit. It does this by insuring lenders against the risk of loss on housing loans of up to 95 per cent of the value of the dwelling. With this insurance, lenders can make low deposit housing loans with the same confidence as loans made to borrowers providing substantial equities. 
Since its establishment, the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation has assisted 168 000 families obtain homes by insuring loans totalling $2,040m. In 1973-74 some 47 per cent of the loans it insured were made to people whose incomes were equivalent to or less than average weekly male earnings. In June 1974, the Corporation's assets totalled $ 15.5m, mainly representing a general reserve for future and contingent liabilities of $7m, and premium income applicable to future years of $8m. Its staff of 37 serves clients through offices in each State capital and in Launceston. 
The effect of this Bill is to preserve the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation as a separate corporate entity within the structure of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation. It has operated on a non-profit basis since its inception. This will be to the continuing benefit of persons seeking to secure finance for homes in adequate amounts and at reasonable rates of interest. Since its establishment, the Corporation has reduced the general body of its premium rates 3 times. They now stand among the lowest in the world within the field of mortgage loan insurance. 
I now turn to the main concepts to which the Bill gives effect. The provisions of the principal Act relating to the constitution of the managing Board are repealed and the Australian Government Insurance Corporation Board will be charged with the management of the business of the Corporation. Provision is made for the existing staff of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation to be employed by the Australian Government Insurance Corporation on terms and conditions of employment not less favourable than those which they presently enjoy. As a consequence, the Bill repeals the specific provision for the engagement of staff under the principal Act. The Bill requires the Board of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation to keep separate books of account and records of the activities of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation. These will be subject to audit by the Auditor-General. The existing financial provisions in the Principal Act are therefore repealed. 
The ultimate effect of the Bill will be that, while the Board of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation will disappear and while it will not have its own separate staff, the separate corporate personality of the Corporation will be retained, even though it will be integrated for administrative and economic convenience into the structure of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation for day to day management. 
The special provisions of the principal Act which have made the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation an effective instrument in our national housing policy will be retained. 
I feel it would be inappropriate to allow this occasion to pass without placing on record the Government's deep appreciation of the service which has been rendered to the community by those persons who have served on the Board of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation and are serving on the Board at present, and I trust that similar opportunities for them to serve Australia will be found in the future. To this we should add the recognition of the contribution of the staff of the corporation whose rights, as I have pointed out, will be protected under this Bill. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Cotton)  adjourned. 
Motion (by  Senator Wheeldon)  proposed: 
That the resumption of the debate be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
I have been blissfully spared most of this debate, but there are some comments that I feel constrained to make on the subject. The first is that what has been said about the Chilean Constitution is a total misrepresentation of that Constitution. In fact, even if the point were to be made that the armed forces did have the right which by some curious source of misinformation  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack relies upon, even if the armed forces had that authority, I should have thought that the honourable senator would have been well aware of the fact that the Chief of the Chilean General Staff, General Gonzalez Prats, opposed the coup which took place against the democratically elected government and fled the country and was subsequently murdered. To say that the armed forces of Chile have a right, when the Chief of that country's General Staff opposed this - 
-He was murdered in the Argentine. 
-Not only do I say that, but if we are talking about the facts, it was the verdict of the Buenos Aires coroner's court that he had been murdered. In any event, whatever the cause of his decease may have been, he had fled Chile, in which country he had been the Chief of the General Staff. In fact, the Chief of Staff of the Chilean Air Force also was subsequently arrested. I find it curious that people who argue for the virtues of the parliamentary system justify the seizure of armed power in Chile, a country which has a long democratic tradition. I do not want to labour that point; I believe that it has been dealt with. I believe the facts speak for themselves. But  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack believe that it is appropriate that if you do not like a government the armed forces are entitled to use force to remove that government. That is what those honourable senators have said, and in order to justify that point of view they felt entitled completely to misstate the history of the country. In fairness to them, probably they do not know the history of the country, but I think that their crass errors ought to be pointed out.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack told the Senate that  Dr Allende  was elected with 34 per cent of the votes. He obtained 34 per cent of the primary vote. There was then a run-off election and the Christian Democrats voted for him. When he was elected ultimately he was elected with over 60 per cent of the votes because the Christian Democratic Party supported him in the run-off election. So an overwhelming majority was received by  Dr Allende.  It is interesting to note that not only the radical party but the other parties which were in popular unity are now being persecuted in Chile by the Facist regime- and I use the term quite deliberately and not in any loose sense- which includes the Christian Democratic Party of Chile, which is associated with the Italian, French and West German Christian Democrats, who have engaged in similar solidarity with the Chilean Christian Democrats as we have engaged with the Radical Party. 

 Senator Greenwood believes that there is something wrong about the Socialist International meeting in Australia, that somehow it is a subversive body and that we should not entertain to lunch or dinner a representative of the Radical Party an affiliated party of the Socialist International. The Radical Party had 120 consecutive years of legal existence in Chile. It was one of the oldest continuously existing political parties in the world. It was legal during all of that period and has only been illegal for a little over 2 years as a result of illegal military action taken by the Chilean military junta. 
-Yes, that is right. We recognise that and we recognise a number of others. We recognise the Government of South Africa and I believe we should recognise the South African Government. But I have been pleased and honoured to have been associated with members of the African National Congress which is illegal in that country. I believe there is nothing inconsistent whatsoever in doing those things. But let us come to the Socialist International, the body about which  Senator Greenwood  is speaking with all the confidence of total ignorance and is able to slander here tonight. 
Who were the people who were also at the dinner with former  Senator Sule,  the man who legally still should be a senator in the Chilean Parliament?  Mr Sicco  Mansholt was there, for many years Minister for Agriculture in the Netherlands Government, and the former  Chairman  of the Commission of the European Economic Community. This is one of the subversives who has been uncovered by  Senator Greenwood. 
I know the Press will ignore the outpourings that have been going on here tonight, but it is a pity. I think the greatest service that the Press of Australia could do for the Australian Labor Party would be to report verbatim every speech made by  Senator Greenwood.  If only it could be revealed that  Senator Greenwood  gets up in the Senate and exposes the former  Chairman  of the Commission of the European Economic Community as a dangerous conservative, even the most addle-Dated recipient of League of Rights literature in the electorate of Maranoa would have doubts about casting a vote for the Opposition at any time in the future. 
What other parties were represented at this meeting of the Socialist International? Apart from the Australian Labor Party, those who were represented included the British Labor Party, the New Zealand Labor Party and the West German Social Democratic Party. Is  Senator Greenwood  going to tell us that Helmut Schmidt and Willie Brandt are subversives, plotting against the legal government? Others represented were the French Socialist Party, the Norwegian Labor Party, the Danish Social Democratic Party- the Government of Denmarkthe Social Democratic Party of the Netherlands represented by  Mr Sicco  Mansholt himself, and the Israeli Labor Party. 
When the occasion suits  Senator Greenwood  he says that he is a champion of Israel. But how does he refer to the democratically elected representatives of the Israeli people? Which is the principal party in the coalition government in Israel? It is the Israeli Labor Party and their representative was present at the meeting of the Socialist International which was held in Adelaide and at the luncheon which was held in Canberra. I personally felt it was an honour to be associated with civilised people who brought some rationality.  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Wright,  whose understanding of international politics is equivalent to the understanding I would have of astrophysics, tell us that the Socialist International is a subversive organisation. The people of all these parties have stood four-square for democracy throughout Western Europe and Asia: The party of Helmut Schmidt, the party of Sicco Mansholt, the party of Harold Wilson, the party of General Rabin, the Prime Minister of Israel. I think it ought to be noted that shortly after the Chilean coup took place the exiled secretary of the Chilean Radical Party was the guest of the Government of Israel, which at that time was in a beleaguered position surrounded by hostile Arab countries. All the parties 1 mentioned have stood four-square for democracy and have been the principal bulwarks against barbarism, whether they have come from countries which erroneously describe themselves as socialist, or which dishonestly describe themselves as democratic, like  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Wright. 
I do not think anything more need to be said about this subject except to say that, if all one wanted was a display of crass ignorance- I do not just talk about attitudes but crass, abject ignorance- it was embodied in the fatuous gestures of  Senator Wright.  If only we had a television camera and if every word of  Senator Greenwood  could be heard and every gesture and grimace of  Senator Wright  could be seen we would not need to spend a penny on any election campaign; we would win with an undisputed majority, the same sort of majority as that which was gained by  Dr Allende  when he was elected  President  of Chile in the last democratic elections that took place in that country. 
Yes, that is right. 
I accept your apology. 
I accept your apology. 
That is right. 
. explain himself in regard to some material part of his speech which has been misquoted or misunderstood, but shall not introduce any new matter . . . 
I call  Senator Greenwood. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable Senator's question: 
1 ) Press publicity during June will invite registration by persons who do not receive Health Insurance Cards. In addition to a coupon incorporated into the press advertisements, forms to apply for cards will be available at all Post Offices, offices of the Department of Social Security and Medibank offices. Registration can also be effected when claiming medical benefits under Medibank. 
It is estimated that approximately 1 million persons do not come within the categories of enrolled voters or endowed children. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) Repatriation patients will retain their current entitlements and the current arrangements for treatment of Repatriation patients, including general practitioner services by the Local Medical officer nominated by them, will continue. In addition Repatriation patients will be eligible for the same Medibank benefits as any other member of the community, and may choose to use these entitlements rather than their Repatriation entitlements if they wish. The only services specifically excluded from benefits under the Health Insurance Act are medical examinations for the purposes of life insurance or admission to membership of a friendly society. Reference to these exclusions are contained in the Medibank claim form which accompanied the booklet. The statement in ' Medibank and You ' is considered to accurately reflect the fact of universal entitlement. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
Repatriation patients will retain their current entitlements and the current arrangements for treatment of Repatriation patients, including general practitioner services by the Local Medical Officer nominated by them, will continue. In addition Repatriation patients will be eligible for the same Medibank benefits as any other member of the community, and may choose to use these entitlements rather than their Repatriation entitlement if they wish. 
The statement quoted is therefore accurate and in no way misleading. 
I was disturbed when I read in this morning's 'Australian' a report of a prosecution in the magistrate's court in Perth of Singapore Airlines for unlawfully bringing a dog into Australia. I have obtained some information about this matter. Apparently the dog was the property of a Perth couple who had left Australia for Italy in December last year and who had taken with them their 10 year old dog. The husband had taken up employment in Italy but apparently decided to return from this employment to Australia. The couple brought the dog with them. When they reached Perth they were informed that the dog did not satisfy the quarantine arrangements, that Italy was not a rabies-free country. After some rather distressing confrontations at Perth airport, the dog was destroyed. 
I think no-one would argue that our quarantine laws should be relaxed, particularly in view of the danger of rabies which apparently has recently become much greater in western Europe. At the same time there does seem to have been an appalling breakdown somewhere in the administration of government departments insofar as there appears to be no doubt whatsoever that these people were told by officials in the Australian Consulate in Milan that they would be able to take the dog into Australia because it had been kept free from contact with other animals. It must have been very distressing for those people to have arrived in the middle of the night and to have found this awaiting them. I do not know who was responsible for giving them this incorrect information. I do not know whether the Department of Health misinformed the Department of Foreign Affairs or whether the Department of Foreign Affairs misinformed somebody else. Clearly, somebody has blundered on this matter, unless the couple involved are telling blatant lies- and I do not think they are, on the evidence I have. I intend to ask the Minister for Health to make inquiries as to who was responsible for all this and, as far as one can, to see that such an episode does not take place in the future. 

 -Yesterday Senator Missen, I think, was complaining that not enough information was being given about - 
I do not think the word 'accurate' was used. I thought the honourable senator said ' not enough information '. 
I see. I would have thought that information meant accurate information. It is misinformation if it is not accurate, I would have thought. (Opposition senators interjecting)- 
Honourable senators opposite do not seem to like answers to these questions.  Senator Greenwood  and his friends seem to have a habit of asking questions and then not liking it when they are answered. 

 Senator Greenwood - I was not interjecting 
-Senator Greenwood says that for once he was not the Liberal senator making the noise. I must confess that this is something of a red letter day. 
I do not think it would be the responsibility of the Government to advise people not to continue membership of funds or, for that matter, not to take out insurance policies if they wished to do so. I think the responsibility of the Government is to provide services and to let people know what those services are. I do not think we have the right or the authority to engage in advertising which tells people not to take out policies or to join other funds. The Hospital Contributions Fund in New South Wales is endeavouring to maintain itself in business by asking contributors to continue paying at the same rate as they were in the past. It has offered a number of additional services which it did not make available in the past such as optometrical services, physiotherapy and so on. The HCF advertisement also refers to the fact that, because the Australian Government and the New South Wales Government have not yet reached agreement on the hospital aspects of the new medical and hospital benefits scheme, it may well be necessary for some time in the future for people in New South Wales to have some separate hospital insurance cover other than that which is available under Medibank in those States in which the State governments have agreed with the Australian Government. 
I do not think there is any doubt that the people of New South Wales and of other States in which there has not been agreement between the Australian Government and the relevant State government are prejudiced as compared with other Australians because the full range of benefits available under Medibank cannot be obtained by people living in those States. However, I believe that that is the responsibility of the governments. If the Hospital Contributions Fund in New South Wales or any other fund wishes to offer additional services, I do not know that it is any responsibility of mine or of the Government's to say that the funds should not make those offers, provided people understand what is being made available to them by the Australian Government's health service. I think that is the end of our responsibility. People ought to be able to make up their own minds whether they want to contribute to the HCF. 
I find it rather strange that  Senator Sheil,  who does not like social services and who speaks about excessive government expenditure, apparently is now complaining that the Australian Government is not spending enough on pensioner medical services and on Medibank. 
I will answer the question. I have not confirmed that free medical services will not be available to pensioners. I have said that they will be available, provided the general practitioner whom the pensioners attend engages in bulk billing. Specialist medical services which at present are not available, except in limited circumstances, will be available to pensioners, as they will be available to all Australian citizens. I am not quite sure what point  Senator Sheil  is trying to make. I am not suggesting, nor is the Government suggesting, that any concessional rate should be charged for pensioners or for anybody else. We believe that there should be a medical service, which is largely free, for the whole of the Australian people. It would be free if the relevant doctor agreed to bulk bill. These matters can be dealt with by the pensioners checking with their medical practitioner as to whether he proposes to bulk bill them or to charge them the additional 15 per cent. 
I have received information that at least one insurance company which provided policies for people in Darwin has been refusing to meet the full extent of what could well appear to be its contractual obligations under its home insurance policies. In the policies of one company there is a provision which reads as follows: 
Loss of rent in the event of the building being so damaged by any of the defined events as to become untenantable. The sum for which the Company shall be liable shall be proportionate to the time reasonably necessary for reinstatement not exceeding 1 2 months. 
It now emerges that this company is offering people in Darwin who hold policies with that company 20 weeks rent and in some cases 26 weeks or 6 months rent. In the letters which the company is writing to its policy holders it is explaining that it is not paying the full 12 months rent which it said it would pay because: 
Based on pre-cyclone construction times in Darwin our determination of the rent period at 20 weeks is most reasonable . . . (The) insurers have done nothing to delay construction in Darwin and as such they cannot be held responsible for delays enforced by Government. 
I do not know what sense one can make out of that. I do not know how anyone could suggest that the insurers would in some way engage in the rebuilding or why the company is saying that the Government is responsible for the delays. Even if it were, I do not know how that relieves the company of its responsibility. Apparently the company is arguing that it would have been possible for Darwin to have been completely rebuilt in 20 weeks and because it has not been it is interpreting its policies as meaning that it is not liable for the 12 months rent for which its policies state that it is liable. 
Insofar as the Government's activities are concerned, we have undertaken- an Act has been passed to this effect- to pay half the uninsured value within a certain range to those people who have lost property, including their homes, in Darwin. We are providing that assistance to them. Nonetheless the situation is rather serious in Darwin with regard to the people who were carrying policies with this company because a number of them have already accepted such offers in full and final settlement of their claims. I can only suggest to the people who hold householder or home owner policies in Darwin that they check very carefully their policies and the offers being made to them by their insurers before they sign any releases from further liability under their policies. 
Royal assent was given to the Darwin Cyclone Compensation Act on 3 1 May, and well over 2000 claims completed by Darwin residents and owners of property in Darwin have been sent to the Treasury so that cheques can be drawn. The total value of the payment due for these claims is more than $3m, and the claimants should start to receive their cheques over the next few days. Quite a large group of officers from the Department of Repatriation and Compensation is at present in Darwin dealing with these claims. One of the problems arising from the latter part of  Senator Devitt's  question relates to the nature of the cover given by insurance policies. 1 think many people are unaware that the sum assured under a householder's policy is reduced by the amount of any claim on that policy. This means that most people in Darwin now have little or no cover left if they have claimed on their policies unless they have taken out new policies to replace the previous ones, because the value of the previous policies will have been reduced by the amounts already received which, in many cases, would be the full amount of the sum insured. I hope that the people of Darwin are aware of the necessity to take out new policies, and they should bear in mind that the Government may well be unable to assist them in the event of future damage. If fire or one of the other normal accidents that do take place to people's properties should occur, they will not be getting assistance from the Australian Government in the same way as they did as a result of cyclone Tracy. Indeed, even if there were another cyclone, it would need to be proclaimed as a national disaster before any assistance could be given and it would need the passage of a new Act. I hope that answers  Senator Devitt  's question. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Since the inception of the Australian Assistance Plan a total of $327,930 has been provided under the Plan to Regional Councils for Social Development established in South Australian electorates. Funds have been provided under the following grants in the full 1973-74 financial year and to 3 1 May 1 975 in the present financial year. 
-I shall find out for  Senator Drake-Brockman  how many people have been appointed to the compensation section of the Department of Repatriation and Compensation. I do not have the figures in my head. He asked me whether we are continuing to appoint people. I am not sure whether many appointments are in train at the moment. It was obviously necessary, as I think  Senator DrakeBrockman  would agree, that even to prepare the Bill and to engage in the sort of studies that were necessary after the report on the inquiry by  Mr Justice  Woodhouse and  Mr Justice  Meares was produced, officers other than those who had been engaged in the traditional areas of repatriation would be needed. A number have been appointed. It is not a great number. They are highly specialised people. They were necessary to study the matter, otherwise the Department would not have been able to play any useful role in preparing the Bill or giving evidence to the Senate committee which is inquiring into rehabilitation and compensation. I am a little bit puzzled by the second part of  Senator DrakeBrockman  's question. He asked whether the Government will be appointing members to the Board of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation before the Bill is passed. Until the Bill is passed there will not be any board to which to appoint anybody. 
I take it that  Senator Drake-Brockman  is suggesting that someone has been appointed to the Board. I do not follow what he is saying. He said: 'That does not stop you'. I would say that it does stop me. If there is no Board of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation I cannot appoint anybody to it. If  Senator Drake-Brockman  cannot understand that and he will see me after question time I will try to explain it to him. 
-An interdepartmental committee did not visit Norfolk Island to study this matter, but some officers of the Department of the Capital Territory visited the Island and have produced a draft environmental impact statement. A report has not been presented. Officers of the Department of the Capital Territory have visited Norfolk Island on a number of occasions and discussed this matter with the residents of the Island. I understand from the Minister for the Capital Territory that this matter will be discussed further at a public meeting to be held on Norfolk Island on 7 June. At that meeting there will be representatives of the Department of the Capital Territory, the Department of Transport, the Department of Housing and Construction and the Department of Environment. 
I am afraid I really do have nothing to add to what I said earlier on this matter. As  Senator Maunsell  may remember, I did announce quite some time ago - 
I think it was before then. I did announce that the time for  Mr Justice  Toose to present his report had been extended to 3 1 March of this year, but apparently  Mr Justice  Toose has been confronted with some difficulties which have prevented him from doing so. 
-No, we have not done that. All he is dealing with at the moment is repatriation. I do not know when that report will be produced. I have no very clear indications about that, but I hope that it will be in the near future and that during the next sessional period we will be able to debate the matter. I have given an undertaking to the various veterans' organisations, such as the Returned Services League and the bodies affiliated with the Australian Services Council, that they will have a period of at least 6 months in which to study the report when they receive it and that Cabinet will not act on it until such time as we receive the comments of the various veterans' organisations. Obviously whatever happens it is going to be quite a considerable period before we can act. 
I do not think it will take as long as that. 
I am very grateful to  Senator Laucke  for asking me that question. I know his interest in the matter, and it gives me an opportunity to explain the position. I have no difficulty in facing the question of the modest origins of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation and I repeat that the only moneys which will be made available to it will be the initial grant of $lm, of which $200,000 will be spent on taking over the effects of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation, and a loan of $lm. All I can say about reinsurance is that the Australian Government Insurance Corporation will endeavour to engage in reinsurance; it will offer reinsurance faculties. These at present are not offered in Australia except in very few instances by companies which are either foreign owned or are the Australian incorporated subsidiaries of foreign companies. 
-That is a different form of reinsurance. I can explain this later to  Senator Wright.  I do not think he knows very much about the subject. 
I really do not think that  Senator Wright  has a grasp of this topic, if I may say so, and, if he had, it would be one of the few that he has a grasp of. It seems to be a rather esoteric subject for  Senator Wright  to understand. To return to  Senator Laucke,  who asked the question with much greater deference and politeness than  Senator Wright  has shown, the position will be that if we offer reinsurance facilities it will speed the momentum of reinsurance throughout the whole of the insurance industry. In fact, if we are offering reinsurance there will be other people who will be reciprocating. It is impossible at this stage to predict what the budget would be that would be necessary for reinsurance. Clearly one would need to know what advantage would be taken by other insurers of the opportunity that was being provided by the Australian Government Insurance Corporation. 
This is something which I would imagine would not in any event take place for some time into the quite far distant future. The immediate program of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation would be to go into householders and home owners insurance and to make investigations of the national interest insurance provisions. We believe reinsurance and some of the other matters which the Australian Government Insurance Corporation will be empowered to transact, such as life insurance, are highly desirable activities for an Australian Government Insurance Corporation, but certainly I would say it would have to be some time before adequate negotiations, particularly in the field of reinsurance, could be concluded with other insurers, and it would have to be a reciprocal relationship with the existing insurance offices. Obviously, if they do not wish to take up reinsurance facilities there would not be any reinsurance business transacted. What we intend to do is to offer that facility which is not at present available from Australian sources. 
In the annual report of No. 4 War Pension Entitlement Appeal Tribunal for the year ended 30 June 1974, the Tribunal dwelt at some length on legislative changes which had occurred during the year. In particular, at pages 5, 6 and 7 of the report the Tribunal mentioned a number of matters of concern to it arising out of legislation requiring Tribunals to give reasons for their decisions. The Tribunal has expressed some concern at the form and content of the legislation enacted by the Repatriation Act (No. 3) 1973, which inserted section 47a in the principal Act, and by Statutory Rules 1974 No. 57, which introduced new regulations 38, 38a and 39. 
The matters raised by the Tribunal have caused me some concern and I have had my Department examine them thoroughly, in consultation with the Attorney-General's Department. This examination is continuing, and I assure honourable senators that should the examination confirm, whether in whole or in part, the substance of the comments raised by the Tribunal, legislative action will be put in train immediately to remedy the problem. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
33 million have been ordered. 
No such provision is necessary: Cheque issue information will be available from computer produced payment schedules. 
The claim forms used by a considerable number of registered medical benefits organisations have provision for the entry of the cheque number on the form. The office procedures of most medical funds provide for the cheque number to be entered on the claim form whether or not there is specific provision on the form. 
No- not for Commission issued cheques where the Treasury Reconciliation System will be used and details of cheque issues will be provided in magnetic tape form as a byproduct of a computer process. 
Reconciliation between presented cheques and cheques issued will be handled automatically by the Treasury Reconciliation System. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question:  (1)1 am not aware of any large scale surveys into the natural levels of mercury and mercurials in the total Australian environment. Individual projects have been carried out but these have been directed to specific areas of priority such as foodstuffs. 
To my knowledge no surveys have been undertaken into the use of mercury and mercurials in Australia. However, mercury has a wide range of applications including use in control instruments, such as thermometers, electric cells, mercury vapour lamps, amalgums for extracting gold and silver from ores, in explosive manufacture, agricultural chemicals such as fungicides and pesticides, in paper manufacture, in dentistry and scientific research. 
No figures are available on the losses of mercury and mercurials to the local environment. 
In order to determine mercury accumulation in the Australian environment, a continuous monitoring program would be required to examine mercury levels in sediment and in organisms. Natural accumulation of mercury occurs in fish, and considerable research is being undertaken to determine levels of mercury in other foods. However, a continuous monitoring program for the total environment is not being carried out at this time. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. Measurements of the selenium levels in Australian fish are being conducted on a routine basis by the Australian Government Analytical Laboratories and, to some extent, by the New South Wales Government Analytical Laboratories. Selenium is a difficult metal to detect accurately in foods, as the analytical method commonly used is long and arduous. However, because of a suspected link between selenium content and mercury toxicity, these investigations are regarded as important and will not be restricted to the selenium content of fish only but also to most foods in the Australian diet. 
The Food Analysts Sub-committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council has assessed a number of methods for the determination of mercury in fish and has recommended that the method used by the Australian Government Analytical Laboratories should be used as the standard method. 
Present and proposed regulations do include standardisation of analytical methods for a range of foods and the purpose in setting a standard method is to ensure that independent laboratories using the method as standardised will obtain consistent analytical results. For example, the proposed standard method for the determination of mercury in fish has been selected because of its accuracy and reproducibility. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Section 24 of the Health Insurance Act 1973 specifically excludes premises which are used, or are to be used, exclusively or principally for the care or treatment of mental illness or mentally defective persons and are under the control of, or the subject of a grant for maintenance from, either the Australian Government or a State government. It should be explained that Medibank was designed basically to replace the existing inadequate health insurance scheme with a more equitable and effective system. In view of the enormity of the task the Government decided not to extend the program initially into wider fields of health care. Consequently, as insurance cover for State mental hospital patients was excluded under the existing National Health' Act provisions, it was also excluded from Medibank. 
As at 30 June 1972, beds in State psychiatric hospitals represented approximately 27 per cent of all beds in general and psychiatric public hospitals in Australia. Comparable information relating to number of patients is not available. 
Finally, I am not clear what the honourable senator has in mind when he suggests psychiatric patients are discriminated' against. From July 1 there will be no patient charges levied against psychiatric hospital patients in South Australia. This will mean New South Wales will be the only State charging psychiatric patients. If this is the discrimination the senator refers to then I must point out the remedy rests solely with the New South Wales Government. 
There was no undertaking contained in the White Paper "The Australian Health Insurance Program' as inferred by the honourable senator. Perhaps the honourable senator was referring to paragraph 4.3: 'The program will cover all public general hospitals, but not mental hospitals or nursing homes, which are the subject of Australian Government assistance in other ways. There will, however, be no discrimination according to nature of illness, so that the treatment of mental illness in general hospitals will be automatically covered. Incidentally, it should be noted that in all States except New South Wales and South Australia treatment at separate psychiatric hospitals is generally provided free of charge to patients.' 
It is emphasised that patients in the psychiatric wards of public general hospitals or in private psychiatric hospitals will be covered by hospital payments under Medibank. However, Australians Governments in the past have regarded the care of patients in State mental institutions as being a State government responsibility. Extension of hospital payments to State psychiatric hospitals under the present circumstances would have the character of financial grants to the States, and would not necessarily benefit the patients concerned. At the same time, in response to approaches by State Health Ministers I wrote to them with certain proposals designed to eliminate the existing charges being raised against these patients. At this stage I am not in a position to advise on the outcome of these initiatives. However, I draw your attention to a Press statement issued by the Australian Ministers for Health following their annual conference in Perth on 8-9 May 197S. It was announced that a working party, comprising representatives from each State as well as from the Australian Departments of Health and Social Security and the Hospitals and Health Services Commission would be formed. The working party would review the present system of financing psychiatric hospitals and consider the closer co-ordination of psychiatric services with the general hospital system. I indicated that I would want the matter of financial offsets considered by the working party. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
No. In referring to developments in audiology services provided in a school in California visited by a member of his staff  Mr Piesse  said that certain factors observed in the school program might afford opportunity to provide further additional benefits for Australian children. Following the Laboratories' aim of keeping in touch with world developments and effecting improvements wherever possible, the factors observe were being carefully evaluated and would be adopted wherever likely to improve the service rendered. 
In referring to the ever present concern of the Laboratories to evaluate and improve the service provided, the factors referred to in the question were specifically mentioned by  Mr Piesse  as areas worthy of study. 
No. The reference was to the program to provide high powered behind-the-ear hearing aids to all severely and profoundly deaf children who might benefit as part of the continuing program for the development and provision of an expanded range of aids.  Mr Piesse  said that this particular part of the program would be completed in 2 years. 
No. The Laboratories' unique system for the selection of the most suitable hearing aid characteristics for the individual child which has been evolved after years of research is considered to be in advance of techniques in use elsewhere in the world. The Laboratories' method of evaluation of a hearing aid fitting which can be used with children only 9 months of age is thought to be ahead of techniques used elsewhere. As far as is known there are very few countries in the world where binaural fitting of hearing aids is the general practice as it has been in Australia for four years. The Laboratories' work in these areas has received much overseas interest and commendation. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) All medical benefit organisations registered under the National Health Act who wish to provide insurance as from I July 1975 in respect of those portions of medical fees that are in excess of Medibank medical benefits are required under that Act to submit their rules covering such insurance for approval by the Minister for Social Security before they are operative. All such organisations were advised that approval would not be given for insurance proposals which, with Medibank benefits, offered benefits higher than the schedule fee for medical services. 
To 22 May 1975 proposals have been received from 15 medical benefit organisations and of these three have been approved. The three that have been approved include one from a major fund in New South Wales which had submitted a proposal, before receiving advice of the basis on which proposals would be approved, to pay benefits for the difference between Medibank benefits and the level of fees recommended by the Australian Medical Association. The fund later amended the proposal to comply with the requirement that fund medical benefits be limited to the difference between Medibank benefits and the schedule fee for medical services. 
All but one of the 12 proposals currently being examined contain proposed medical benefits based on the schedule fee and rates of Medibank benefit. The Hospital Benefits Association of Victoria has submitted a proposal to pay medical benefits to cover the 'gap' between Medibank benefits and the doctor's actual charges with a limit equal to 25 per cent of the Medibank benefit. That organisation will be advised that the proposal is not acceptable and will be invited to submit an amended proposal based on the schedule fee. 
Proposals based on doctors' actual charges are unacceptable as they would condone those doctors who charge more than the fees determined by an independent Medical Fees Tribunal established for the purpose of determining appropriate medical fees, and would encourage those who do charge the schedule fee to increase their charges at least up to the level of the sum of Medibank benefits and fund benefits which are available. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Family Health Insurance cards have been prepared by Medibank from records supplied by the Department of Social Security, relating to all children for whom Child Endowment is currently being paid to a parent or guardian. These records contain the latest information given to the Department by the parent or guardian. 
Changes made to names of children by adoptive parents but which have not been notified to the Department can be corrected by informing Medibank. The Department should, of course, also be notified. 
Children who are not living in a family, or who in the opinion of their parent or guardian should have a personal card, may have an application for a card completed on their behalf by the parent, guardian, person or authority responsible for them. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) All medical benefit organisations registered under the National Health Act who wish to provide insurance as from 1 July 1975 in respect of those portions of medical fees that are in excess of Medibank medical benefits are required under that Act to submit their rules covering such insurance for approval by the Minister for Social Security before they are operative. All such organisations were advised that approval would not be given for insurance proposals which, with Medibank benefits, offered benefits higher than the schedule fee for medical services. 
To 22 May 1975 proposals had been received from 15 medical benefit organisations and of these, three had been approved. The three that had been approved included one from a major fund in New South Wales which had at an earlier date submitted a proposal, before receiving advice of the basis on which proposals would be approved, to pay benefits for the difference between Medibank benefits and the level of fees recommended by the Australian Medical Association. The fund amended its proposal to comply with the requirement that fund medical benefits be limited to the difference between Medibank benefits and the schedule fee for medical services and this proposal was approved. 
All but one of the 12 proposals currently being examined contain proposed medical benefits based on the schedule fee and rates of Medibank benefit. The Hospital Benefits Association of Victoria has submitted a proposal to pay medical benefits to cover the gap between Medibank benefits and the doctor's actual charges, with a limit equal to 25 per cent of the Medibank benefit. That organisation will be advised that the proposal is not acceptable and will be invited to submit an amended proposal based on the schedule fee. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) and (2)1 would explain to the honourable senator that when the present health insurance scheme was framed, generally State psychiatric or mental institutions did not raise charges. There were no grounds, therefore, for providing benefits to patients accommodated in these institutions free of charge. The subsequent decision to levy charges for such treatment in these institutions was made by the State Governments concerned. It should be noted that notwithstanding the fact all States have the legislative power to charge patients treated in these institutions, only South Australia and New South Wales actually exercise this authority. It is proposed that patients in South Australian mental institutions will not be charged for the first 28 days of their treatment. This means that New South Wales will be the only State charging psychiatric patients for the whole time of their treatment. 
It should also be noted that despite repeated requests to the previous government to provide cover for these patients, no action was taken. 
Under Medibank the major objective is to provide comprehensive cover against medical and general hospital services to everyone in the community, in contrast to the present inadequate health insurance scheme. It is not misleading to state, as the booklet does, that each Australian can expect to use Medibank at some time during his or her life since it should be obvious that most Australians will receive medical or hospital care at some point in their lives. 
Under Medibank patients in psychiatric wards of public general hospitals or in approved private psychiatric hospitals will be covered by hospital payments. In addition any patients permanently institutionalised in a State psychiatric institution in New South Wales who receives treatment outside the institution, will benefit from Medibank. For example a patient transferred to a public general hospital for specialised treatment will receive the same benefits under Medibank as any other person. lam sympathetic towards the plight of psychiatric patients. However, the provision of hospital benefits to include patients in mental institutions would have the character of financial grants to the States and there could be no guarantee that it would be of financial assistance to the patients concerned. 
I would like it made known through that the Australian Government has been active in the area of mental health. Over recent years the capital assistance provided by the Australian Government has been responsible for a considerable improvement in the standards of accommodation provided. This assistance is not only restricted to the construction of mental hospitals for the provision of mainly custodial care but has been used for community mental health services such as day hospitals and early treatment centres. 
I would again like to draw the honourable senator's attention to a press statement issued by the Australian Ministers for Health following their annual conference in Perth on 8-9 
May 1975, when it was announced that a Working Party, comprising representatives from each State as well as from the Australian Departments of Health and Social Security and the Hospitals and Health Services Commission, would be formed. The Working Party would review the present system of financing psychiatric hospitals and consider the closer co-ordination of psychiatric services with the general hospital system. Included in this review would be the possibility of off-setting general revenue grants to the States for psychiatric institutions. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
to (4) The relevant paragraphs in the booklet Medibank and you ' are as follows: 
If you live in a State which is co-operating in the Medibank program (or in the Australian Capital Territory or Northern Territory) and you choose to be treated as a private patient (that is, in other than a standard ward), whether in a public or a private hospital, you will be charged by the hospital for the optional accommodation you have chosen and your doctor may charge you for the medical treatment provided. Of course, if you intend to be treated in a hospital as a private patient, you will need to continue contributing (or begin contributing) to a private hospital insurance fund to qualify for full coverage against hospital accommodation fees. 
Medibank subsidies in the co-operating States (and the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory) will reduce by $18 a day the amount against which you will need to take out private hospital insurance for accommodation as a private patient. 
The present Australian Government hospital benefit of $2 a day for privately insured patients and 80 cents a day for uninsured patients will continue. Private patients, in States co-operating in the Medibank program and in the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory, who have taken out private insurance for optional accommodation will therefore receive a total Australian Government benefit of $18 a day. Uninsured private patients in those States (and in the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory) will receive a total Australian Government benefit of $ 16.80 a day. 
Private patients will also, of course, be able to claim medical benefits from Medibank for the fees charged by their doctors for the treatment provided in hospital. ' 
There are only two standards of accommodation available in public hospitals in the Australian Capital Territory; multiple bed wards and single rooms. In practice the multiple bed ward corresponds with intermediate wards in New South Wales and Victoria as regards the access of the medical profession to patients occupying beds in those wards. Over past years medical practitioners in private practice have had unrestricted access to both the multiple bed wards and single rooms for their private patients in Australian Capital Territory hospitals and with the exception of pensioners have usually charged their patients on the usual feeforservice basis. 
As from 1 July 197S the charge to patients in multiple bed wards who wish to be treated by their own doctor will be reduced from $30 a day to $20 a day as the result of higher Medibank subsidies. The new charges, of course, will be substantially subsidised by the Government and will not reflect the true cost to the hospital of providing the accommodation and associated hospital services. 
Under the new arrangements patients may also choose to be treated as hospital patients free of charge by doctors who are remunerated by the hospital. Such patients, of course, will also be accommodated in beds in the multiple bed wards unless their medical condition is such as to require a single room or they wish to pay to have preferred accommodation. 
The only difference between the Australian Capital Territory and States hospitals arrangements for Medibank is that in the States it is usual for standard ward and intermediate ward accommodation to be physically separated whereas in the Australian Capital Territory they may be adjacent. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) The estimates issued by the Minister for Social Security on 1 6 March 1 975 were on an ' accrual ' basis. Estimates that will be prepared for the 1975-76 Budget will be on a 'cash payout' basis. It is anticipated that there will be an average lapse of time between date of service and date Medibank medical benefit is paid of one month for claims lodged direct on the Commission by practitioners, and two months in respect of persons incurring expenses who seek reimbursement of paid accounts or pay doctor cheques for unpaid accounts. 
and (7) The cost of Medibank medical benefits is affected by which States enter into hospital agreements and when. The estimates issued by the Minister for Social Security on 16 March 1975 were on the basis that South Australia and Tasmania, and possibly Queensland, would enter the Medibank Hospital Plan on 1 July 1975. However, there is still some uncertainty as to when the States of New South Wales, Victoria or Western Australia will also be in the Medibank Hospital Plan. When this is known, it will be possible to make estimates of the cost of total Medibank medical benefits. Estimates are normally prepared for financial year period and not dissected by parts of the medical benefits schedule. 
and (8) An overall allowance of 5 per cent estimated increase in basic utilisation of medical services per head of population as between 1974-75 and 1975-76 was used in estimates issued on 16 March 1975. 
and (6) Allowance is made only for the services that are listed in the medical benefits schedule. Items 3 to 66 specify the durations of time relevant for medical benefit purposes. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the  recommendation by the  Chairman  of the Joint Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits Pricing Arrangements in relation to matters in dispute in connection with the 1972-73 Enquiry into Pharmacy Earnings, Costs and Profits. Due to the limited number available at this time a copy of this paper has been placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
I did see the allegations that were made in yesterday's edition of the 'Daily Mirror' concerning the role of the Department of Repatriation and Compensation in the payment of compensation to residents and property owners in Darwin. I must say that I was very surprised at that report. I have seen it in no other newspaper. If it is an accurate report, I am surprised that the Council of Fire and Accident Underwriters should have made such charges. Certainly its  President, Mr Le  Page, is a man with whom I have had a great many negotiations. Although we have obviously disagreed on a number of points, I have found him to be very good to deal with, as I have found the Council of Fire and Accident Underwriters to be a reasonable organisation. I am surprised that that organisation should be saying the sorts of things that it has been alleged by the 'Daily Mirror' to have said. According to the report in the Daily Mirror', which, I repeat, has appeared in no other newspaper, it has been said that the public is being misled by the vague, indecisive and less than honest attitude of the Government on its Darwin relief programs. 
-Senator Wright says Hear, hear'. I would like him, if he is going to suggest by saying 'Hear, hear' that we have been vague and dishonest, to justify his suggestion. I only wish that his asinine gestures were televised. I only wish the Australian people could see  Senator Wright  as well as hear him, although I imagine that hearing him is sufficient. If he says we have been behaving dishonestly, I would like him to stand up and say where we have been behaving dishonestly. 
I repeat that the Council of Fire and Accident Underwriters is reported to have said that we behaved in some way dishonestly. The report goes on to say. 
Private insurance companies had paid out more than $280m to Darwin policy holders . . . 
That may well be true. The report continues: 
But the Government, adopting a "wait and see " attitude, had not made a single contribution,' . . . 
The report continues: 
A spokesman for the Commonwealth Department of Repatriation and Compensation has told the organisation- 
I presume it means the Council of Fire and Accident Underwritersit  was still waiting to make its first payment. 
With all due respect, if that is the word, for  Senator Wright,  the statements which are attributed to the Council are palpably untrue. Honourable senators may remember that it was only just recently that the Darwin Cyclone Damage Compensation Bill was passed through the Parliament and royal assent was given to it only on 3 1 May 1975. Since then I have issued a number of Press releases with regard to the manner in which payments are being made by the Department of Repatriation and Compensation. It is obvious that any payments which were made by the Department would have to be made subsequent to the settlement of claims against private insurers because the Bill itself provides that the compensation is for half of the uninsured value. So, clearly the Australian Government could not make payments before there had been some settlement of any claims which residents and property owners in Darwin had against private insurance companies or whatever other organisations they may have had policies with. 
On 12 January I informed the public that over 7000 people had completed survey forms. On 2 1 January I announced the details of the compensation that would be paid for personal injury and death. On 4 March I announced the details of compensation for the uninsured loss or damage to property which was estimated to cost $58m. Last week in the Senate I announced that cheques worth $3m for over 2000 claims had already been sent out by the Department of Repatriation and Compensation. This has now reached a figure of 2780 claims amounting to $3,880,000. 1 must confess that I am completely bewildered as to why the Council of Fire and Accident Underwriters, if it has made this statement, should have made it. 
-No, I have not checked it with the Council; nor has the 'Daily Mirror' checked with me; nor has the Council of Fire and Accident Underwriters checked with me. The report appeared only last night. I do not believe it is my responsibility to be checking with newspapers or checking with the Council of Fire and Accident Underwriters. Serious allegations have been made against me and my Department. I do not believe it is my job to be running around in the middle of the night checking up with the people who made the allegations. It is their obligation to check their allegations with me. I say thai these allegations, whether they are made by the Council of Fire and Accident Underwriters or made by the 'Daily Mirror' in a fit of imagination, are absolutely untruthful and dishonest allegations. 
I think it ill behoves the Council of Fire and Accident Underwriters, after the exposure of some of the actions which have been taken by insurance companies in Darwin, as I pointed out in answer to a question the other day, in an effort to evade their responsibilities to insured persons in Darwin, to make utterly untrue allegations about this Government. If the Council of Fire and Accident Underwriters or  Senator Wright  or anybody else wants to go up to Darwin and debate with me the role of this Government and my Department in providing compensation to the people of Darwin, I would be happy to go there on any occasion to do it. 
I have seen the advertisements to which  Senator Button  refers and I have also seen the announcement that all or some of these advertisements by the Victorian Government are to be withdrawn. The advertisements which were inserted by  Mr Hamer  claimed that his Government was not able to enter into the hospital side of Medibank because of delays by the Australian Government and that he had been made aware of these delays by the Hospitals and Charities Commission of Victoria. As  Senator Button  has suggested in his question, these delays were apparently not found by the Governments of South Australia and Tasmania which had no difficulty in entering into the hospital side of Medibank through negotiations with the Australian Government. I am further informed that the Hospitals and Charities Commission of Victoria gave no such advice at all to  Mr Hamer  or to the Victorian Government. Certainly if it had given such advice it would have been erroneous advice. 
If  Mr Hamer  said that he had advice from the Hospitals and Charities Commission of Victoria that delays by the Australian Government were preventing his Government from entering into the hospital side of Medibank, the proper thing for him to have done would have been to inform the Minister- previously  Mr Hayden  and now me- as to what these delays were. He has not done this. If he has received some advice from the Hospitals and Charities Commission that the Australian Government is acting in a dilatory manner or improperly I wish he would produce the report from the Hospitals and Charities Commission of Victoria so that we can study it and not just have to rely on the vague statement that it has advised him. I do not believe that it has advised him anything of the sort and I believe that, because enough people know it has not given him any such advice, that is the reason why he has withdrawn the advertisements from Victorian radio, television and newspapers. 
I have seen the report. It was in last night's Melbourne 'Herald'. It quoted a  Mr Anthony  Cheesman who said that he served in Vietnam as a national serviceman from February to June 1971 and that he was hit by 2 machine gun bullets in 1971, as a result of which he cannot now work. He said that he had been told by the Australian Government retirement benefits office- I am not quite sure what that is, but that was the term which was used- that his disability pension of $58.49 a fortnight had been discontinued from 9 May. He made various claims about the policy of the Government which did not altogether appeal to him. I must say that one should feel great sympathy for anybody who is in the position of  Mr Cheesman,  but I am not quite sure what the problem is. This is another example of a matter about which one might have hoped that journalists would have spoken to the department or the office of the Minister involved before they printed some of the articles which they do print. It appears that what  Mr Cheesman  - 
I know that  Senator Wright  always gets a good run from the Press. It never reports him. That is the greatest favour it could do him. It appears that what  Mr Cheesman  is complaining about may well be defence forces retirement benefits payments. I do not know why the payments have been terminated; they are the responsibility of the Minister for Defence. If the facts reported in the article in the Melbourne Herald' have been stated correctly, it would seem that  Mr Cheesman  is eligible for repatriation benefits. If he is suffering from a disability resulting from war service this would seem to be a classic example of someone who is entitled to repatriation benefits. I have instructed my department to inquire whether any application has been received from  Mr Cheesman  and, if so, what has happened to it. Obviously, as I said, on the evidence that has been provided by the Melbourne 'Herald', insofar as we can accept it as evidence, he would be entitled to repatriation benefits. I shall make certain that an officer of the Department of Repatriation and Compensation gets in touch with  Mr Cheesman  to inform him of his rights under the Repatriation Act. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
The situation will vary from one organisation to another. However the Health Insurance Act provides for the payment of health program grants to approved organisations to cover the cost of an approved health service. These grants will generally be paid to organisations providing services through medical and paramedical personnel remunerated on a salaried or sessional basis. Under the Health Insurance Act an approved organisation is entitled to be paid an amount equal to the cost incurred by the organisation in providing the approved health service, including such part of the management expenses of the organisation as the Minister considers attributable to the provision of the health service. 
-Yesterday my colleague,  Mr Hayden,  was able to advise me that the Treasury publication of economic statistics has shown that improved unemployment benefit paying procedures have resulted in the number of registered unemployed being reduced by 4500 people during the month of May. I believe that this is a matter of some significance because it appears quite obvious from the information that has been provided that in the past the numbers of unemployed that have been shown in the statistics have been inflated because of certain imperfections in the system of making available unemployment benefits. 
According to the Department of Labor and Immigration the number of registered unemployed decreased during May by 1 7 290 compared with a reduction in unemployment during April of 5428. It is our opinion that the reduction during May- the considerably greater reduction, although there was a reduction in unemployment during April- was due largely to the more intensive checks being made of people who are on the unemployment register. Last April, in order to overcome the difficulties and delays which people were finding on some occasions in the weekly payment of unemployment benefit, my Department- the Department of Social Security- changed the paying procedure. Instead of payment being made on the lodging of a weekly income statement at an employment service office the procedure was altered to require a statement to be furnished by the beneficiaries directly to the officers of the Department of Social Security by post once each 4 weeks. Weekly cheques are accompanied by a notice requesting beneficiaries to notify the Department when they commence work. 
This change in the procedure has enabled officers in the Department of Labor and Immigration to concentrate more on their responsibilities for maintaining the register of unemployed up to date. I think the Senate and the Australian people will be interested to know that these procedures have shown that at least to a certain extent the unemployment figures in this country have been artificially inflated and that this artificial inflation has been reduced, if not eliminated, by the introduction of more efficient procedures. 
In his policy speech delivered a little over a year ago before the double dissolution election, which resulted in the rout of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam  did undertake to provide half of the cost of building a new general hospital in Launceston, something which had been neglected for 23 years by LiberalCountry Party governments. The Tasmanian Government has accepted the offer which was made by the Australian Government consequent upon  Mr Whitlam's  undertaking. The planning of the hospital is now proceeding and the Australian Government is doing everything that it can, through the Department of Health and its Minister,  Dr Everingham,  to speed the development of this project. A development plan has already been prepared for the new hospital under the direction of a steering committee. The steering committee includes representatives from the Australian Departments of Health, and Housing and Construction and the Hospitals and Health Services Commission. The development plan defines a 3-stage program of development in which a new acute general hospital facility will be redeveloped on a site immediately adjoining the existing hospital. The existing main hospital is proposed to be converted for use for the delivery of psychiatric, geriatric and rehabilitative care. 

 Senator Grimes would no doubt know, as a senator who lives in Launceston, unlike some people who have recently taken an interest in that area, that the Australian Government announced in 1974-75 Budget a 5-year hospitals development program of capital assistance to the States for the development of public hospitals and other health institutions. During 1974-75 an Australian Government grant of $1,833,000 was approved to assist the Tasmanian Government in the construction and improvement of hospitals. With these funds the Australian Government has helped the planning of the new Launceston General Hospital redevelopment and it will continue to meet its commitment in respect of this project as each stage of the redevelopment is negotiated and agreed to with the Tasmanian authorities. The action that this Government has taken with regard to the Launceston General Hospital is indicative of the attitude which the Australian Labor Party Government has taken ever since it has been in office, that is of doing everything which it conceivably can for States such as Tasmania, which was so neglected for so many years under the previous Government. 
I do not really want to discuss the merit of the matters which are before the Senate at present. The only thing I would like to do is to make an appeal to the members of the Liberal Party to try to resolve their differences. There are many years of Labor Government facing the people of Australia and the people of Australia are pleased by that prospect. But in the interests of good government it is necessary for there to be some sort of effective Opposition. I say that as a Minister in the Government. 
I can understand  Senator Chaney  's bewilderment, but in fact  Senator Wright  had stopped talking. I would appeal to the members of the Opposition to try to get together and to have some unity. The whole future of parliamentary government depends on having some sort of united Opposition. To have them fragmented before us when they cannot even agree on a simple matter, such as a question relating to the reassembly of the Senate, when we have seen sharp personal exchanges between prominent members of the Liberal Party, is something which I believe is distressing to those of us who believe in the democratic system and in the 2 party system. As a Government we believe that there should be an Opposition which can express to us a coherent point of view on the issues which come before us. 
When we find that the Opposition is incapable of even expressing a coherent point of view on the question of the reassembly of the Senate, we believe that democracy is in a very parlous condition. Although naturally such a disorganised rabble is unlikely ever to be elected to office, at the same time the Government believes that in the interests of constructive debate in this chamber there ought to be some sort of unity within the Liberal Party. I appeal to the members of the Liberal Party in the recess to resolve their differences, to get together to try to sort out what their common policy is, and that  Senator Withers, Senator Wright  and  Senator Cotton  should shake hands, let bygones be bygones and bury the hatchet. I make that appeal to them in the name of the whole of the Australian people. 
The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The Pensioner Medical Service entitlement cards will continue to be used after 1 July 1975 for the following purposes: 
to identify persons as eligible pensioners to whom assignment of benefit undertakings by medical practitioners and participating optometrists, will apply; 
b ) to identify persons as eligible for pharmaceutical and other benefits under the National Health Act and other Australian Government legislation; and 
to identify persons as eligible for free public ward hospital treatment in non-participating States and for nursing home benefit purposes. 
In addition Pensioner Medical Service entitlement cards are used as identification to obtain fringe benefits available from State Government Authorities and concessions from private enterprise organisations. 
Since the Pensioner Medical Service entitlement cards will be used for the purposes stated, it was considered appropriate to include this advice in the booklet 'Medibank and You'. 
I think  Senator Hall  rather flattered me in implying that I was going to speak on the law of privilege. I am afraid that as a practitioner that was a field in which my practice was not very extensive. In fact it was non-existent. My long suit was breaking, entering and stealing, which probably also has relevance to some of the discussions we have been having here today. In the practice of breaking, entering and stealing one tends to confine oneself to the facts rather than to the law, as one learned magistrate in the city of Perth often used to point out to counsel when they raised questions of law. I therefore would like to try to draw us back, in a spirit of some common sense, to what it is we are trying to do today. I think that what we need to do is to find out what the Opposition is trying to do. 
I have given a great deal of my time, in fact about 5 per cent of it, to studying the various accusations that the members of the Opposition have been making about loans and so far what I have seen paraded for me has been a cast of characters who are certainly exotic, some may say picaresque. In fact they almost sound like the passengers in Agatha Christie's  Murder on the Orient Express.  We have had references coming from the various journals and the members of the Opposition to an assorted group, including a dentist who also is the  president  of a football club; a Pakistani who apparently lives and transacts business in a basement; a man who it appears changed his name and claims to have been a member of the secret service of one or more countries; a person who has been described by the Premier of South Australia as a certified lunatic; another gentleman with a Hungarian name who also has been certified, but this time by  Sir John  Bunting of whose ecclesiastical status I was hitherto unaware, as a good Christian, and the Saudi Arabian authorities were informed accordingly; a number of knights of the realm; and  Mr Phillip  Lynch. We have heard about all these people and they have all done various things. They seem to resemble in some ways the Flying Dutchmen of the jet age, constantly flying from Zurich to Melbourne, to Tokyo and to New York, sending telexes and swearing affidavits. A most industrious group they are indeed, but what precisely it is that they are doing or are alleged to have done remains a mystery to me. I must say that I think the onus is on the Opposition to tell us what they have done and what the accusations are. 

 Senator Greenwood has told us that he has said inside this Parliament and outside this Parliament- with great courage, he tells us, and I do not want to dispute  Senator Greenwood's  courage; I would be the last to do so for I remember the role he played in the Vietnam war- that he believes there has been criminality. Criminality committed by whom? Who was the individual who engaged in these criminal actions? It is not very heroic to say inside or outside the Parliament that someone has committed an act of criminality. If  Senator Greenwood  believes that someone has committed a criminal act let us hear from him who the criminal is and what his criminal act was. It is completely useless just to say: 'I believe there has been some criminality'. 
We have heard the same sort of thing from  Senator Hall.  I dare say that he found last Friday's expectations were not satisfied on Saturday's results but I would think that even in this state of disappointment he should give a little more attention to some of the matters he has brought before us today.  Senator Hall  has told us that he has heard that someone has been threatened by someone else, which is a very serious matter if it is true, and that the way to resolve the problem is to bring public servants before the Bar of the House. Apparently he thinks that  Sir Frederick  Wheeler,  Sir Lenox  Hewitt and other distinguished citizens will be able to shed some light on this problem which suddenly has been brought to  Senator Hall's  attention. 
I say to  Senator Hall  that if he has information about threats being made to some individual by another individual who is also unspecified with regard to these loans or any other matter the Bar of the Senate is not the place to deal with them. The place to deal with such matters is the Adelaide Police Court. If it is a criminal offence a charge should be laid there and it will be dealt with there, not here. I suggest to  Senator Hall  that he immediately takes steps now that I have given him that legal advice which is the only legal advice I intend to offer anybody today. Instead of wasting his time talking about these matters here, he should immediately see his solicitor. Possibly his State Leader,  Mr Millhouse,  would be able to advise him on this matter. He should arrange for a summons to be issued from the Adelaide Court of Petty Sessions where the matter would be clarified almost immediately without the presence of all these First Division public servants and Second Division public servants who are sitting around today watching this extraordinary performance which has been going on all day before them. 
How did we get into this position? Apparently we got here because the Government refused a motion which had been put by the Opposition. I know that  Mr Killen  is in the gallery and I can see his embarrassment at this dreadful procedure. The Opposition put a motion that a royal commission be appointed with proper and adequate terms of reference to investigate and report upon all aspects of the Government's overseas loan activities. What nonsense is this! If there is to be a royal commission or a judicial inquiry, there needs to be at least a clear prima facie case of illegal conduct or improper conduct. We have not heard such a case. We have heard innuendoes. We have heard people's names bandied about, but there has not been one allegation. There has not been one substantive motion moved by anybody in the Opposition. To have a royal commission, one has to lay charges and the royal commission has to investigate these charges. Honourable senators opposite talk this nonsense about a royal commission into all aspects of the Government's loan activities. Since when? Dating back to when? 
Do honourable senators opposite suggest that we should have officials of the Australian Treasury coming into the Parliament, divulging confidential information accumulated over the years with regard to foreign loans which have been entered into or which the Government has attempted to enter into without any specifics being given of the matter which is under consideration, other than the innuendoes about somebody being threatened, somebody living in a basement and somebody changing his name which really do not have any bearing on  Sir Frederick  Wheeler or the other distinguished gentlemen who are associated with him? Of course not! This is absolutely preposterous! If this sort of thing continues, before we know where we are we will have private secretaries coming along and making statements about their Ministers. 
I think the Parliament ought to set itself quite resolutely against the practice whereby the Parliament is allowed to go on a fishing expedition against members of the Public Service, forcing them to divulge confidential conversations which they have had with their Ministers because the result of that will be a total breakdown in government. Does anyone seriously suggest that a Minister should not be able to have a conversation with his permanent head about the competence of various officers in the Department, about how he is getting on with another department, how things are going with the Public Service Board or the Treasury or somebody else? Surely it is proper that such conversations should take place. But how can such conversations take place if the position is to be that the permanent head or one of his subordinates may find himself summoned before the Senate and, under duress, forced to disclose to the Parliament and to the public, private conversations concerning the conduct of his Ministry which he had with his Minister. This is what the Opposition is attempting to do here today. I am still waiting to hear charges from honourable senators opposite. I have not heard any specific charges at all. I have heard innuendo after innuendo. 
I must say that I am surprised that even  Senator Hall  of the Liberal Movement- a Party with 2 seats in the South Australian House of Assembly- should come here today and raise this slander directed against nobody in particular, but everybody connected with the Government in general, that somebody has been threatened. If  Senator Hall  wants to name them, let him name them. Let him stand up, if he wishes to make a personal explanation on this matter, and name the people who made the threats. But let him not hide from that course of action by saying merely that somebody has threatened someone. If the person who made the complaint to him has a complaint, why does he not go to see the police instead of the time of the Senate being wasted by  Senator Hall  on that matter? In passing, I refer to one of the more sensible members of the Opposition,  Senator Cotton. 
Well,  Senator Cotton  is more sensible. I do not want him to get too excited about the compliment. I only said 'one of the more sensible members of the Opposition'. If we look back to the year 1972, shortly before the collapse of the defunct Government which preceded us, a debate took place in the Senate concerning Jetair Australia Ltd. It was one of those scandals which crop up every now and then. I must confess that I do not remember precisely what the problems of Jetair Australia Ltd were. It is rather like the Chowilla Dam; I cannot remember what side I was on. Looking back on what happened with respect to Jetair Australia Ltd, we find that when this matter was being discussed a question was asked of  Senator Cotton,  who was then Minister for Civil Aviation, by  Senator Wriedt. Senator Wriedt  asked  Senator Cotton  whether he would give an assurance that all his departmental files relating to Jetair would be tabled as, if this was not done, information necessary to forming a proper picture of the role of the Department of Civil Aviation in the Jetair affair would be withheld from Opposition senators who would be inhibited in their capacity to ask specific questions.  Senator Cotton,  with very great commonsense, answered: 
No, I certainly do not. What we will be doing here will be answering, as we have always done, specific questions concerning requests for information. We will do that. 
How did he finish? He said: 
I am also conscious of the fact that there are in the Department of Civil Aviation some 60 files relating to various aspects of this matter. Let us look at the administration of this country in a commonsense way. Are we to bring all the files of all the departments of State into the Senate, on request? If so, we will turn the Senate into a lunatic asylum. 
I submit that  Senator Cotton's  colleagues have today done their best to turn this Senate into a lunatic asylum. For that reason we reject the ridiculous proposition in the motion moved by  Senator Withers. 
-He is not  Mr Larkin. 

 Mr Hay; I do not have it before me, but I am aware of the document. 

 Mr Hay; In view of the Treasurer's instruction to me, I am unable to answer any questions pertaining to that matter. 

 Mr Hay; They are. 
He said a person can be a Minister without being a member of the Federal Executive Council and if he were a Minister who was not a member of the Federal Executive Council the privilege would not apply. It was fairly clear, I think. 

 Mr Byers; It is because the Crown has made the claim in constitutional terms. I, as the Crown's second law officer, as it would seem to me, cannot do anything which is intentionally inconsistent with the privilege which the Crown asserts. 

 Mr Byers; No. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) I am aware that a number of reports suggesting an increased incidence of spontaneous abortions and congenital malformations of offspring of pregnant women exposed to volatile anaesthetics in operating theatres have appeared in medical literature over the last few years; the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee (ADEC) is currently reviewing the subject. 
No specific measures have been taken in the Northern Territory or the Australian Capital Territory to investigate this problem. However, the matter was taken into consideration when the airconditioning system for the operating theatres at the Woden Valley Hospital was being designed. 
An article drawing attention to the problem and summarising the available information has been prepared for consideration by the Adverse Drug Reactions Advisory Committee (a sub-committee of the ADEC) for possible publication in the Adverse Drug Reactions Bulletin. This 
Bulletin is circulated to all hospitals, medical practitioners, pharmacists and dentists in Australia. Apart from this, no action has been taken at this stage pending receipt of the report from the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee. 
I rise to take a point of order. The matters on which  Mr Karidis  has been summoned to come before the Senate today relate quite specifically to the terms of reference. To ask him about other relationships which he may have with  Mr Khemlani  or anybody else which are not related to those terms of reference is, I submit, completely improper and should not be allowed. 
-That is the way to ask a question. 
I wish to speak to the point of order. A question on this very subject was asked by  Senator Georges  at the opening of the proceedings. He asked whether the practice would be followed, which was followed in Senate committees, of counsel or legal advisers referring to the witness and making approaches to them when questions of some difficulty were asked. This was a practice which was followed in most sensitive inquiries conducted by the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange.  Mr President,  I submit to you that if on issues as sensitive as that this practice was followed by the 
Senate, the Mccarthyite techniques which  Senator Missen  wants to introduce on this occasion should be avoided by the Parliament. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACKSpeaking to the point of order, I point out that  Senator Wheeldon  has made the assertion that the practice followed by the Securities and Exchange Committee was that a witness could consult his lawyer. That is perfectly true. But he could consult his lawyer only when given permission by the  Chairman.  The witness would address himself to the  Chairman  and say, 'I would like to consult my lawyer'. If permission was granted he then consulted his lawyer. But that is not the case here. The practice has been, on all committees on which I have had any experience as a member or  chairman,  that a witness before the committee is entitled to ask a  chairman  whether he might consult his counsel. In this instance, with the Senate sitting as a whole at the present moment, it is the witness's duty when in doubt as to how he should answer and whether he could be put in prejudice to address himself to you,  Mr President,  and then you can give him permission to consult his counsel. 
I should like to speak on the matter which has just been raised. I was not aware that  Senator Webster  was going to raise this matter tonight. It is obviously something which does not require a more detailed examination and a better answer than I can give off the cuff. I think the only thing that I could say at the moment is that obviously there are going to be problems in the introduction of Medibank as there are in any substantial social change of this nature. I am not altogether surprised that there are some things such as that which has just been raised, being drawn to my attention as Minister for Social Security. But I will certainly have this matter examined immediately together with the telegram to which  Senator Baume  has referred which I take it has been sent to the Director-General of the Department of Social Security. He has not as yet drawn it to my attention. I will see that answers in writing are sent to both  Senator Webster  and  Senator Baume  in connection with the matters that they have raised as soon as I can take proper advice. 
For the information of honourable senators I present a report of a committee of review on the School of PublicHealth and Tropical Medicine. 
Pursuant to section 9 of the Medical Research Endowment Act 1937, I present a report entitled 'Medical Research Projects 1 973 '. 
I think it is appropriate that I, as Minister for Social Security, should say something about the death of Dame Ivy Wedgwood because she was certainly conspicuous during her membership of the Senate as one most interested in health and social welfare. She made many very constructive contributions to the determinations of the Senate on these matters. In fact her interest did not cease when she retired from the Senate. Only a few weeks before her death I had a very long conversation with her about some matters which interested her. She was still active in Victoria, her home State, in a number of pursuits of a social nature which were beneficial to the people in the area in which she lived. Apart from those activities, I think that all of us who knew her in the Senate had a very high regard for her not only as a member of Parliament but also as a person. As the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Withers,  has said, her husband  Mr Jack  Wedgwood was well known to nearly all of us who were senators at the same time as Dame Ivy. He was very favourably known; a man who had suffered great hardship as a result of serving this country. I know that the sympathy of all of us will go to  Mr Wedgwood  in his very sad loss. 
-I not only saw the reports of the small gathering to which  Senator McAuliffe  has drawn my attention - 
-We had much bigger gatherings during the moratorium compaign; far bigger gatherings than the one outside Parliament House yesterday. I actually saw the small gathering through the window and I was rather disappointed that - 
I was not invited because I am sure there must have been in that - 
-No, I was not invited at all. I was invited once by the insurance companies to discuss the matter with them, and I do not think that they will invite me back again. I did not hear but I did read what  Mr Fraser  had to say. I am afraid that  Mr Fraser  may not have given very much encouragement to the assembled representatives of the petty bourgeoise who surrounded him in Parkes Place. Apparently he devoted himself very largely to the Australian Government Purchasing Commission rather than to the Australian Government Insurance Corporation, according to my information. He did nonetheless make some erroneous statements about the Australian Government Insurance Corporation Bill to which  Senator McAuliffe  has so sagaciously drawn my attention. The Leader of the Opposition apparently said that the Australian Government Insurance Corporation would not be subject to the Trade Practices Act and would not be subject to the various insurance Acts. In fact it will be subject to all trade practices legislation and it will be subject to the insurance Acts and to the Life Insurance Act. It will be liable for all rates, levies and taxes which are imposed in all the States, unlike the Government insurance offices in some States which avoid paying the fire brigade charges and other charges which are imposed on private insurance companies in those States. Among those States I would include 2 States with Liberal governments. 
The other statement which  Mr Fraser  made, that the Government had wide powers to determine what would be national interest insurance and that these powers would enable the Australian Government Insurance Corporation to compete unfairly with the private insurance companies, also was erroneous. The Government does not have these powers. The only way in which business which is unprofitable can be proclaimed as national interest insurance in which the Australian Government Insurance Corporation can undertake business is by way of regulation which can be disallowed by either House of the Parliament. So in fact both Houses of the Parliament, completely democratically, have the right to disallow any such proposal regarding the Australian Government Insurance Corporation. 
I did see the report and was rather disappointed that the Director of the Brotherhood of St Laurence should have made a statement which is, to say the least, lacking in that charity which one would expect from a charitable organisation. At no stage did the Director of the Brotherhood in any way attempt to find out from me whether in fact this was so. Nor, I understand, did he ask anybody else connected with the Department of Social Security. I am not quite sure what he means when he states, 'symptomatic of the Government's present mood'. What he seems to be accusing us of here is playing deceit of some sort. The fact of the matter is that Professor Henderson and his Committee have completed their report. The report is being printed and it is hoped that it will be tabled next week. There has certainly been no collusion between me, Professor Henderson and the Government Printer, any two or more of those people or any others to prevent the tabling of the report on poverty this week. I must confess I am not entirely clear what would have been the advantage or disadvantage if it had been tabled this week. Apart from accusing us of being deceitful, I am not entirely apprised of the advantage that the Director of the Brotherhood of St Laurence is anticipating we would have gained from being deceitful. In short, the answer to  Senator Gietzelt  's question is that our friend from the Brotherhood has his facts wrong. 
-The Prime Minister did announced in June, as  Senator Baume  has said, that the Social Welfare Commission in its present form would be disbanded and its activities transferred elsewhere. It is not a fact that the Public Service Board tried to undermine or destroy the Social Welfare Commission in advance of legislative approval being given to the abolition of the Social Welfare Commission, which in fact would be needed as the Social Welfare Commission was established by legislation. Various leaks were taking place for some time with regard to these matters, some of which were not entirely with the best intentions. I issued a Press statement in which I denied reports that there was some sort of dispute going on between me and  Mr Cooley,  the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board, whom until then I had never met. In fact, I still have not met him; the only time I have spoken to him was when I called him on the telephone to deny that I was having any dispute with him. 
-He agreed that he was not having a dispute with me. During the last month or so the Public Service Board, far from dismembering the Social Welfare Commission, has given approval to an increase in the staff of the Social Welfare Commission. As for any future activities of the Public Service Board, I am afraid that I can give no undertakings as to what it may or may not do. It is not under my authority; it is a largely autonomous body and in any event it is not responsible to me. 
With regard to the future of the Social Welfare Commission, as  Senator Baume  would know, a royal commission has been established, under the chairmanship of  Dr Coombs,  to inquire into the whole framework of the Public Service in Australia. One of the matters which doubtless will be studied by the task force which has been set up within the Public Service royal commissionI hope to have a report from the task force within the next month or two- is the future performance of the functions which are now undertaken by the Social Welfare Commission. In the meantime the Social Welfare Commission is continuing to function as it did in the past and in fact the staff has been increased. Any changes in the nature of the Social Welfare Commission, including its abolition, can be brought about only by legislation. What is to be done when the report has been received from  Dr Coombs  's task force will be open to full debate in both this chamber and the House of Representatives. 
In regard to the latter part of the question, certainly I agree that the Returned Services League should be heard. I have the closest consultation with the RSL and with other ex-service organisations although naturally the RSL, as the biggest organisation, is the one with which I have the most dealings. I think there has been some concern in past years about the future of the repatriation system. It possibly occurred first when a Senate committee under the chairmanship of a Liberal senator,  Senator Dame  Nancy Buttfield, brought down various recommendations which would have led to very substantial changes in the repatriation system. I think it continued when  Mr Justice  Toose was appointed by the previous Government to inquire into the repatriation system. I believe the concern arose again when the Department of Repatriation was transformed into the Department of Repatriation and Compensation, and again when I was given the additional portfolio of Social Security. All of these matters have occasioned concern. I have given undertakings to the RSL and to the Australian Services Council, which represents most of the other veterans organisations, that no change in the system is proposed by us and that none will take place without consultation with them. If I may speak for myself, I do not believe there ought be any substantial change in the repatriation system. 
Only last week I had the advantage of talking to the Canadian Minister for Veterans Affairs who was in Australia. As far as I am aware, the Canadian system of veteran benefits and administration is probably the system most closely approximating the Australian system. There had been moves in Canada, he informed me, by some people to attempt to tone down the activities of the Department of Veterans Affairs. There had been proposals that the Canadian veteran hospitals be transformed into general hospitals available to all people. Even in Canada, where this had been adopted as policy, only a relatively small number of hospitals had been so transformed. On our calculations, it does not seem that the maximum number of repatriation beneficiaries- that is excluding the possibility of any intervening war- will reach its peak until the year 1985. Obviously, and I think most importantly, there will be a special and continuing role for the Repatriation Department far into the foreseeable future. I have given assurances in that regard. The matter which is still pending is the report of  Mr Justice  Toose. He has told me that his report will be available soon. I have told both the RSL and the Australian Services Council that they will have a copy of that report for at least 6 months so that they can make recommendations on it before any action would be considered by the Government in line with the recommendations of  Mr Justice  Toose. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) Yes. 
to (5 ) As far as can be ascertained, Stilboestrol has not been used to any extent in this country for the management of threatened abortion, though it was recommended in diabetic programs in the late 1940's. 
The Australian Drug Evaluation Committee recommended in 1972 that medical practitioners be alerted to the problem and requested to provide reports of cases of the development of adenocarcinoma of the vagina in adolescents and young adults who may have been associated with exposure to Stilboestrol in utero. The Committee published a statement on this subject in the Medical Journal of Australia on 9 September 1972. 
On 2 November 1973 the Committee recommended that: 
A register be maintained of cases of adenocarcinoma ofthe vagina. 
It should be recommended to the Royal College of Pathologists of Australia and the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists that such a register be established and maintained by the Colleges with details of any cases being recorded by either register being forwarded to the ADEC. 
The Colleges were advised of this recommendation but the College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists in reply indicated that it did not have the resources at the time to establish such a register. The matter was reconsidered by the Committee on 5 April 1974 which then recommended that: 
The College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists should be requested to provide information on all cases of carcinoma of the vagina which may be associated with exposure to diethylstilboestrol in utero. 
This was reiterated by the Committee on 4 April 1975. The most recent advice from the College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists is that the matter is to be placed again before its Research and Scientific Committee. 
On 4 April 1975 the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee recommended that the matter should again be drawn to the attention of the medical profession, as early diagnosis of adenocarcinoma of the vagina offered the best chance of successful therapy. Accordingly, the item drawing attention to this condition was included in the Adverse Drug Reaction Bulletin of 1 May 1975. 40 000 copies were distributed to medical practitioners, hospitals, pharmacists, dentists and medical students. 
My Department is currently examining the feasibility of establishing a monitoring scheme for congenital abnormalities, which would serve as a register ofcongenital abnormalities. There is at present no established scheme to associate maternal drug therapy with subsequent appearance of abnormality ofthe offspring. 
-There does not appear to be any evidence- I have none available- of any substantial abuse of Medibank either by doctors or patients. Obviously one hears of various instances which one probably could describe as an abuse, but there has been nothing of a substantial nature. It is difficult to tell whether there have been abuses because accurate statistics are not available as to the volume of claims which were made under the previous medical scheme by medical practitioners which could be compared with the volume of claims which are being made under Medibank. It does seem that some doctors are making claims more frequently than they did under the previous medical schemes and this is imposing some heavy clerical burdens on some of the offices of the Health Insurance Commission. I should not like to say whether this is deliberate or not. 
-Maybe some would like to say it is deliberate but I should not like to say whether it is or it is not. However, it does appear to be happening. Despite the growing pains which one can expect in the first month or 2 months of the operation of a new system such as Medibank, it is operating remarkably well. There are safeguards which can be exercised to ensure that there are not abuses and the Health Insurance Commission and the Department of Social Security are constantly watching the situation. I think we can all be very happy- the Government indeed can be very happy- that so far the operations of Medibank have proved to have functioned so successfully. 
-A similar question was asked on this matter by  Senator Scott  yesterday. I am aware that there is concern about the future of the repatriation system. The answer which I gave to him then and which I think is sufficiently important to repeat at least in part, is that this is a concern which has been expressed by veterans organisations over the past 5 or 6 years. I think the concern to any serious extent began initially when a Senate committee which was chaired by the then  Senator Dame  Nancy Buttfield brought down a recommendation which suggested substantial changes in the repatriation system. Shortly after that the previous Government appointed  Mr Justice  Toose to make his inquiry into the repatriation system and this seemed to cause some additional concern. The fact that the new Department of Repatriation and Compensation was created added to that concern and the fact that I now have the portfolios of Social Security and Repatriation and Compensation I think has probably also added to this concern. 
I have repeatedly told the veterans organisations and in particular the Returned Services League- it is only a week or two since I had a very long talk with  Mr Keys,  the National Secretary of the RSL- that we do not have any intention of changing the fundamentals of the repatriation system. An inquiry is being conducted into the Public Service by a royal commission presided over by  Dr Coombs.  A special task force is dealing with the rationalisation of the social welfare systems generally of which repatriation is a part. No particular emphasis is being placed in that inquiry on the future of repatriation. The principal inquiry into repatriation is that which is being undertaken and has been undertaken for the past years by  Mr Justice  Toose. I have undertaken to the RSL and to other veterans organisations that when I receive 

 Mr Justice Toose 's report, which I hope to receive within the next couple of months, I will make it available to all of the veterans organisations and they will have at least 6 months to consider  Mr Justice  Toose 's recommendations and to advise the Government of their views on those recommendations. As I also said yesterday, I met the Canadian Minister for Veterans Affairs last week. Canada is the country which has a repatriation system most similar to our own and, despite the fact that in Canada a number of people have advocated that the activities of the Department of Veterans Affairs should be phased out in some way, that has been found to be quite impossible to do. My own personal view is that for at least a couple of decades a repatriation system broadly along the lines that we have now will be essential. I have given those undertakings to the veterans organisations and I do not anticipate that there will be any change in the basic or fundamental nature of the repatriation system as we now know it. 
I am glad that  Senator Bessell  raised this matter. As it happened, I was discussing this very question- not particularly in relation to King Island but in relation to farmers generally- with the Director-General of the Department of Social Security only yesterday. A similar matter had been raised by a State Labor member of the New South Wales Parliament regarding a problem which had occurred in his electorate, where a number of farmers are not receiving what could be regarded as adequate incomes. There is a real problem involved because I do not think one can say with any great ease where to draw the line when one finds a falling off in the incomes of people who are otherwise self-employed. If we are to extend unemployment benefits to farmers whose incomes have fallen off, what is the position of someone who owns a business such as a cafe or a garage, the income from which has fallen off, or a solicitor or somebody else who for quite good reasons is not getting work?  Senator Greenwood  apparently finds it funny. I thought that  Senator Bessell  was asking a serious question and I am trying to answer it in a serious way. There is a real problem when dealing with people who are self-employed, who have tangible assets and who it can be fairly said are not making an adequate income out of their normal occupation. 
Undoubtedly there are some farmers who for a variety of reasons are undergoing some hardship at present not only on King Island but also in other parts of Australia. Although the Minister for Agriculture is not aware of it, I intend writing to him later this week to suggest that there be some consultation between the Department of Social Security and the Department of Agriculture in order to try to reach some conclusion on this matter. It could well be that this is a decision which would fall more within the ambit of the Department of Agriculture than the Department of Social Security. I am still not sure about that. I was asked whether consideration is being given to this question. The answer is that very serious consideration is being given to it. 
-The answer is no, the repatriation local medical officer system certainly has not become defunct with the introduction of Medibank. It is in fact the case, unfortunately, that some local medical officers did think that that would be the case and had submitted their resignations before Medibank came into effect. However, I am informed that in the majority of cases those officers have applied to take on once again the duties of local medical officers. I believe that the community generally and the veterans and their dependants in particular should feel some great indebtedness to local medical officers because many of them are people who have, at some inconvenience and without any great profit, engaged in the work of repatriation local medical officers mainly out of their strong feelings of sympathy for veterans. From 1 July last the local medical officer fees for consultations and visits were increased substantially. It is proposed that the payment for these services will be 60c above the benefit paid under the Medibank arrangements, and for the procedures carried out by a local medical officer in his surgery the full schedule fee will be paid. I do not doubt that a great many medical practitioners who have functioned as repatriation local medical officers would be quite happy to continue to do so, even without the payment of the additional fee. However, it is the view of the Government, and it is certainly my view, that if medical practitioners are going to undertake these additional and sometimes rather onerous duties they should be paid an additional sum, which in fact they will be paid. 

 - Mr Deputy President, I learned of this matter this evening and I have obtained some documents from the office of  Dr Everingham,  including a transcript of a discussion which took place in an Australian Broadcasting Commission radio program which was recorded on Thursday, 14 August and broadcast on Saturday, 16 August. In that broadcast somebody interviewed a  Mr Carr  of the Hearing Aid Council, which is apparently an organisation of private manufacturers of hearing aids, and  Dr Everingham.  A number of exchanges seem to have taken place between the participants on an issue which arouses rather more controversy than I had hitherto been aware of. During the course of the discussion  Mr Carrsuggested  that in some way  Dr Everingham  had not behaved properly in that he was suppressing a secret report. I gather that  Mr Can  has been making very grave allegations against a  Dr de  Souza and a  Mr Piesse  of the Department of Health, who were alleged to be engaging in intrigues of some kind. They deny that, and the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham),  has said that he has full confidence in them and that, far from keeping secret the report of these people in order in some way to damage the members of the Hearing Aid Council, he has not published the report at the request of some members of the industry. 
I would not want to do that. I can only repeat the information that has been provided to me. Apparently a request was made to the Minister for Health that the result of the inquiries by  Dr de  Souza and  Mr Piesse  should not be made public. The Minister acceded to that request and is now being accused by  Mr Carr  of having deliberately suppressed the report. During the course of the interview  Dr Everingham  said that he had not received any official request for anybody else to participate in the inquiry. Is this not so? 
-Anyway, I think he said that he had not received any request. He meant by that no official request, as I understand it. In fact, there is no record of any request having been received in his office when my office contacted his office tonight about any request from anybody to participate in this inquiry.  Senator Baume  has provided me with a copy of a letter written by 5 clinical audiologists to the Minister for Health on 23 April in which they requested the opportunity of taking part in the inquiry. I do not know whether this letter has been received by the Minister, whether some error occurred or whether, in fact, the Minister did not take this as being an official request. I am not quite sure what an official request is. As far as 
I can tell from the letter, these audiologists appear to be writing on their own behalf and not representing any organisation. It seems to be a letter from 5 individuals, four of whom hold the degree of Master of Arts and one the degree of Doctor of Philosophy. The only observation I was able to make from the letter was that the sexist nature of our society seems to have been continued in this letter in that the highest degree was held by the one male member of the group. Apparently this letter was not taken as an official request, if it were received by  Dr Everingham.  I shall see that the remarks of  Senator Baume  are passed on to the Minister for Health. If he has not received this letter I shall see that it is drawn to his attention that such a letter has apparently been sent or, at any rate, written. I shall ask him to look into the matter. 
-Yes. I shall ask  Dr Everingham  to see that an appropriate reply is given to the 5 clinical audiologists who wrote to him. I trust that will satisfy  Senator Baume. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Yes, I am aware of this situation. In fact it is estimated that Medibank will pay some $27m for these services in the year 1975-76. So far I have not heard of any votes of thanks being passed by any of the insurance companies; nor, indeed, when they have been talking about creeping socialism, have I heard them saying that this was an aspect of it which they deplored. Not only have 1 not heard of that, I have not heard of any proposal by the insurance companies to reduce premiums for this insurance which now is being covered by Medibank. 1 understand their position because both of these areas are on the whole loss areas. I believe that if the state- I use the word 'state' generically to cover both the State and the national governments- accepts that it is essential that there should be workers compensation and third party insurance these facilities ought to be available to people at reasonable prices, but the insurance companies, for whatever reason, are not able to provide them. That is why the Australian Government, the Labor Party, proposes a national compensation scheme which will rationalise all of these contradictory and irrational methods now used to look after people in these circumstances. There is in fact a donation of $27m being made to the insurance companies, and so far not one word of thanks has been expressed, nor has there been one gesture from them in the direction of the people who have the misfortune to take out policies with them. 
I think that when  Senator Webster  is referring to aged persons homes he is referring to what are technically known as aged persons hostels. If he is not referring to the hostels I would be happy to take up the question of aged persons homes with him. The Aged Persons Hostels Act was passed as a temporary measure by the previous Government in 1972 and is due to expire in September 1975. It was regarded as a short term measure to give assistance to what are technically described as aged persons hostels, which are somewhat different from aged persons homes which provide more self-contained units for the people who live in them. It was announced some time ago that the Aged Persons Hostels Act would not be extended beyond September 1975 for a number of reasons which I think one can readily imagine. I have made a number of statements and have written to people who conduct aged persons hostels asking them to place applications in my hands or the hands of the Department of Social Security before the expiration of the Act. If applications have been received before the expiration of the Act they will be dealt with in order of priority. 
A number of applications have been received and approved in principle. The policy which we are following is to see that at least those people who have received approval in principle and have thereby of necessity involved themselves in all sorts of expenses, such as architect's fees and various other preliminary disbursements, will not be out of pocket. They will be reimbursed for their out of pocket expenses and the projects will be placed on a list in order of priority. Naturally I am receiving representations from a number of individual organisations which conduct homes and hostels pressing their own particular cases. Some, I suppose, are stronger than others. I am not personally familiar with the 2 cases which  Senator Webster  raised. It may well be that they should be higher on the order of priorities than some others. If he would like to write to me about this or ask the organisations to write to me and put up their cases I would be very happy to consider them, as I have done in a number of other instances. If I feel it necessary to suggest to the Department that these cases be raised on the priority list I would be happy to do so. 
-Despite the fact that the Government has been under very great pressure to reduce public expenditure, there is one field in which we have more than maintained our record and that is in the area of social welfare. We reject the arguments which were put forward on Monday of this week in the  Australian,  whose proprietor and whose flunkies seem to have shown a remarkable reversal of form over the last few months and are now not only advocating opposition to what they would regard as socialism, whether of a creeping or any other variety, but also are opposed it would seem to the concept of the welfare state. We are not; we stand for the welfare state. 
It is interesting to note that, despite the fact that we have found it necessary to cut back on expenditure in the public sector, if one looks at the record one sees that in the last year of the Liberal Government- 1971-72- of the total Budget outlay 25.2 per cent was spent on health, welfare and repatriation and that in the first year of the Labor Government such expenditure rose to 28.2 per cent. The estimate for this year is 34.5 per cent of the total Budget. One has to take into account with that expenditure the benefits which are being given by Medibank and other advantages which are now available to people which were not previously available. It can be seen that all needy sections of the community- the pensioners, the sick, the disabled and the veterans of the Australian forces- are much better off now than they have been in the past. 
I think that  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson has made a good suggestion. I have had some material distributed, but apparently with all the other exciting things that have been happening those who print the newspapers did not feel it warranted the same consideration as other matters. In fact, statement No. 3 as well as statement No. 4 does refer to these matters. Probably it could have been more correctly shown as appearing in statement No. 3 and in statement No. 4. If  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson looks at statement No. 3 he will find that it is also mentioned there. Naturally, these are matters which have to be made known to people. It is not much use having facilities available to people if they do not know about them. It is my practice in these circumstances to advise all the veterans organisations, but obviously there are a number of veterans who are not members of those organisations who also need to be informed. I shall certainly take up the honourable senator's suggestion, although I think that this would have been done in any event. I shall see that the widest publicity possible is given to these matters. 
This matter was raised on the adjournment last night by  Senator Baume.  It was referred to  Dr Everingham  and I have now received some further information from him which may be of interest.  Dr Everingham  informs me that the letter to which  Senator Baume  referred was from a group of clinical audiologists working in several Sydney hospitals but not representing the Audiologists Society as such. I think that is the sense in which  Senator Baume  meant that it was not an official approach. The five individual clinical audiologists asked for an inquiry into the activities of the National Acoustic Laboratories and, as a result,  Dr Everingham  arranged for a meeting to be held on 17 June between officers of his Department, representatives of the National Acoustic Laboratories and the writers of the letter. At that meeting a number of matters were discussed and the Government's policy regarding the supply of hearing aids was explained. I am informed by  Dr Everingham  that the audiologists expressed themselves as being pleased with the responsive and encouraging approach to their inquiries and were grateful for the chance to have this exchange of ideas and for the explanation of the Government's plans. Arrangements are being made for continuing discussions with this group, should that be necessary or desirable. No further approach has been made by this group on the need for an inquiry. 
The audiologists also said that they were aware of limitations in the services provided by the present hearing aid industry. The Otolarynogological Society of Australia - 
-The Otolaryngological Society of Australia- I know that  Senator Withers  takes a keen interest in its activities- was involved in the Australian Government's working party on aids and appliances and has expressed itself as having a continuing interest in being involved in future developments in the hearing aid area. But this society which, as I understand it, is the professional society of people who are interested in otolaryngology has made no request for any investigation into the activities of the National Acoustic Laboratories. 
This Bill is suffering the fate of a series of Bills which have been presented to the Senate during the past  Vh  years for which the Australian people have voted. When the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  delivered the policy speech on behalf of the Australian Labor Party during the campaign for the 1974 election nothing could have been clearer than what he said on the subject of the Bill which is before the Senate at this moment. He said: 
The Government is determined to give home-owners the opportunity to insure their properties for lower premiums and against natural disasters. The Commonwealth Banking Corporation introduced on 1 February a House Insurance Scheme with rates more favourable than those set by any insurer other than the Defence Service Homes Insurance scheme, while the latter scheme provides wider cover than other insurers, as flood victims in Brisbane have come to realise. 
Accordingly the government will set up an Australian Government Insurance Office which will compete actively in all forms of insurance and which, in particular, will provide the widest possible cover for homes at the lowest possible premiums. 
Nothing could have been clearer than that. 
When the people of Australia voted for the Australian Labor Party in May 1974 this is one of the things for which they were voting, but because of the oddities of our Constitution and our electoral system and because of the behaviour of the Premier of New South Wales we do not have the representation in the Upper House that we have in the Lower House and we are unable to pass the legislation which any government should be entitled to introduce- that is, those matters which are put to the people at an election and are adopted by the people. I do not think there could be any greater humbug than to hear people on the opposite side of the chamber talk about democracy and the will of the people. Although the will of the people was very clearly expressed the Opposition here today is taking the steps that it can take, and which we knew that it would take, to reject the will of the people. They do it because they do not like the will of the people. 
One of the things that has been most striking in this debate has been the refusal of Opposition senators to debate the Bill. They have debated creeping socialism. When I hear reference to creeping socialism I am reminded of the observation of one of my colleagues in the West Australian Parliament, the member for BoulderDundas, that whatever people may say about creeping socialists he prefers the creeping hordes of socialism to the hoarding creeps of capitalism. Opposition senators spoke about creeping socialism and all sorts of matters completely unrelated to the Bill, but they refused to discuss the Bill. A great deal has been said already, both here and elsewhere, by me and by other members of the 
Labor Party, about this Bill. I do not intend to repeat all the things that have been said. 
I wish to repeat why we are introducing this legislation. We are doing it for the reasons which were given by the Prime Minister in his policy speech for which the people voted, as you would recall,  Mr Deputy President.  We are doing it to provide competition. We want to provide competition for the private insurers, in the same way that the Commonwealth Bank provides competition for the private banks. One of the lasting achievements of the Fisher Labor Government of 1910-13- the Government which, apart from the present Government, did more to transform the face of Australia and to benefit the people of Australia- was the establishment of the Commonwealth Bank. The Commonwealth Bank and its successor, the Commonwealth Banking Corporation, have provided for the people of Australia a banking service which would otherwise not have been available. The competition which they have given has forced the private trading banks to do things which they would otherwise not have done. We want to do precisely the same thing with the Australian Government Insurance Corporation.  Senator Everett  crystallised yesterday in the points he raised the reasons for the introduction of this Bill. 
We want also to provide what is known as national interest insurance. We want to see that the people who are affected by natural disasters are not left without cover. We want to see that they are not left like  Sir Gordon  Chalk, the Leader of the Liberal Party in Queensland, who was left high and dry by the Brisbane floods. We want to see that the farmers of this country have the opportunity at least of gaining crop and livestock insurance. Such insurance is available in countries which are completely committed to the capitalist system to the extent that the United States of America and France are. It is not available in this country. It has been tried in this country. It was tried only recently in Western Australia by a consortium of West Australian farmers and the Farmers Union Western Australia (lnc). It failed. It failed because it was unprofitable. We are not suggesting that anybody in private enterprise ought to engage in an enterprise which is unprofitable. We are saying that it ought to be done by the nation. That is why we make provision for national interest insurance in the Bill. 
We do not exclude from the Bill any actions which the private insurers may care to take. It is interesting to note that it is only since an Australian Government Insurance Corporation has been proposed that the private insurance companies thought of providing national interest insurance. It has been only a way of staving off the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Corporation. What proposals did the private insurance companies put forward? As  Senator Everett  remarked yesterday when talking about the proposals that they made about national compensation, by their proposals they will get all the glory, and we will get all the bills. I am not responsible for the Insurance Acts, but negotiations are taking place between the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  and representatives of the general insurance companies to try to adopt some sort of national interest insurance guidelines. I have told the Fire and Accident Underwriters Association and the representatives of the private insurance companies that they are not excluded in any way under this Bill from engaging in national interest insurance. If they are prepared to put forward amendments to the Bill which would make it clear that they were not excluded and which would enable them to co-operate in a satisfactory way with the Australian Government Insurance Corporation to provide national interest insurance, we would be happy to consider those amendments. 
The third reason for introducing the Bill is that we are sick and tired of Australia being subject to Coca-colonisation. We believe that it is an independent country. It is one of the 10 great trading nations of the world. We do not believe that something as important as insurance should be in foreign hands, in a way in which no other country, even the meanest and smallest most recently independent colony, would tolerate. We do not want to continue a situation by which over 45 per cent of the general insurance business is written by foreign insurance companies, by which 20 per cent of the balance is written by State insurance offices- nearly all of which is almost entirely in unprofitable fields- and by which 40 per cent of the life assurance business is written by foreign companies. 
We want to engage in the field of re-insurance. It is an important field. It was said yesterday by  Senator Jessop  that large sums had been paid out by foreign re-insurers as a result of the Darwin cyclone. He asked was not it a wonderful thing for Australia that we had been able to pick up all this money from the foreign re-insurers. If one looks at a business only on the payments outnot on the receipts- one can come to some very funny conclusions. I think it is true to say that if one looked at the re-insurance business over the last couple of years one would find that it is not profitable in Australia. It has not been profitable because of a rapid succession of misfortunes such as the Tasmanian bushfires, the Brisbane floods, which were partly covered, and the Darwin cyclone. If one looks at it over a longer period- a decade, 20 years, a quarter of a century or half a century- few commercial enterprises are more profitable than re-insurance. Although it is difficult to obtain the figures as to how much reinsurance business is written in Australia and who does it, it would seem that at the most about 2!4 per cent of the re-insurance business that is written in this country is written by Australian companies. 
I must commend  Senator Laucke.  The only time I felt I was at all on the ropes in relation to this matter was as a result of a question asked by him, with his usual perspicacity. I think he has drawn attention to something of significance, and that is that if the Australian Government Insurance Corporation starts with the limited funds which we intend to make available to it and with the small funds which it would acquire in any event over 5 to 10 years, the amount of reinsurance which it would be able to write would be very small. In its original stages it would be quite small. There is no question about that. The fact is that we would be going into business with the purpose of providing re-insurance. Once the resources of the Corporation developed we would have in Australia an instrumentality which had as part of its charter the writing of reinsurance. We would not be seeing vast sums going overseas to damage our trade balance. 
As polls have been mentioned- not  Blue Poles  but public opinion polls- I think it is most interesting to note that the most recent poll which I have seen in relation to support for the Australian Government Insurance Corporation showed that, despite the polls which were taken earlier in the year when an overwhelming majority of Australians who apparently knew little about it were opposed to its establishment, less than half the Australian population are opposed to it. Almost half the Australian population are in favour of it. As some wit on the  West Australian,  the Perth morning newspaper, if you will excuse the expression, described it, only 19 per cent of those people who presently hold insurance policies would transfer them to the Australian Government Insurance Corporation. Obviously, if 19 per cent of the insurance business written in Australia were transferred to the Australian Government Insurance Corporation that Corporation would be one of the mightiest insurance offices in the world. That is the situation as it stood a month or more ago. 
The argument about nationalisation has been used. It is an unfortunate argument and I am very disappointed in  Senator Cotton.  I am pleased to see that he had the decency not to debate the Bill itself but to talk in general terms. He knew there was nothing that he could say against the Bill. But the argument has been used that somehow this Bill is going to lead to the nationalisation of the insurance industry. I wonder whether someone could explain to me how it is going to lead to nationalisation of the insurance industry? Has the establishment of the State government insurance offices led to the nationalisation of the insurance industry? Has the establishment of the Commonwealth Bank led to the nationalisation of banking? The previous Labor Government- the Chifley Government- did try to nationalise banking in 1947 but did the existence of the Commonwealth Bank make it any easier to do so? It did not. It had no effect whatsoever. If a government were elected with a policy of nationalising insurance it would make no difference whether there were an Australian Government insurance corporation or whether there were not. 
When the Indians nationalised insurance they did not need to have an Indian Government insurance office to do so. They simply nationalised what was there. The same thing happened in Peru. There was no Peruvian Government insurance corporation when they nationalised insurance. They just went ahead and did it. The same thing applies here. When honourable senators argue- and I will deal with some of these points later on- that somehow this legislation will enable us to put the private insurance companies out of business it shows that they just have not read the Bill which is before them; they have been reading the handouts which have been distributed to the lower-middle class cannon fodder who have been gathered by the insurance companies to demonstrate outside Parliament House and in various State capitals throughout Australia. They have not been reading the Bill. 
I should like to comment briefly on some of the tilings which have been said by the first senator to speak and the last senator to speak in this debate, although I have said something about what  Senator Laucke  has already said.  Senator Cotton  has said that there is no good reason for the Government's interfering in the insurance field and that under clause 14 of the Bill the Minister may direct the Australian Government Insurance Corporation to write insurance on an unsound basis. I take it he means a commercially unsound basis and is referring to the national interest insurance- that form of insurance which we say, and everybody admits, is not commercially profitable. But  Senator Cotton  omitted to tell us that the Bill says also that any proposal that the Australian Government Insurance Corporation should write national interest insurance could be implemented only after a regulation had passed through both Houses of the Parliament. The proposal would not be subject to the direction of the Minister; it would be subject to the direction of the Minister with the concurrence of both Houses of the Federal Parliament. 
One other small point I should comment on came from  Senator Bunton. Senator Bunton  told us that the insurance industry has an unblemished record. If by that he means a consistent record, I would not dispute it. If he means the word in any other sense I think I might be prepared to debate the matter with him. I think that  Senator Bunton,  in referring to the unblemished record of the insurance industry to which he has been so kind as to draw our attention, overlooked one rather important matter. In fact not only has he overlooked but he has misinformed us. He has told us that all premiums paid to insurance companies are actuarially determined. I have some information for  Senator Bunton:  They are not. Life assurance premiums are actuarially determined but those premiums which will prevail as the most important part of the activities of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation in the field of general insurance- fire, accident, and marine insuranceare not actuarially determined; they are determined on the maximum that the market can afford to pay- the most that the insurance companies can squeeze out of those people who are unfortunate enough to have to take out insurance. They are not actuarially determined at all. 
It has been alleged also- and this has been dealt with by other speakers on this side of the House- that the various laws to which the private insurance companies are subject would not apply to the Australian Government Insurance Corporation. I think this matter has been dealt with over and over again. The Corporation would pay taxes and it would pay the fire brigade levies. It has been alleged, on what authority one does not know, that the Trades Practices Act would not apply to the Australian Government Insurance Corporation. I do not know who was the legal sage who provided this advice to the Opposition. Whoever he was, I do not think he was one of the parliamentary lawyers because none of them has expressed such an opinion. Just in case there is any doubt on this matter I have obtained an opinion from the Secretary of the Attorney-General's Department dated 20 August. I shall not read the document in any great detail, but the final paragraph of the advice from the Secretary of the Attorney-General's Department states: 
In summary, the Trades Practices Act will apply to the commercial operations of Australian Government Insurance Corporation. 
As this is a matter which has occasioned some concern, I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the advice to the Secretary of the Department of Repatriation and Compensation from the Secretary of the Attorney-General's Department. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
ATTORNEY-GENERAL'S DEPARTMENT 
Canberra, A.C.T. 2600 Please Quote YourRef: 20 August 1975 
The Secretary, Department of Repatriation and Compensation, P.O. Box 21, WODEN A.C.T. 2606 
Application of the Trade Practices Act 1974-1975 to the proposed Australian Government Insurance Corporation 
I refer to your memorandum of 23 July 1 975 in which you seek advice on whether the proposed Australian Government Insurance Corporation (AGIC) would, if created pursuant to the Australian Government Insurance Corporation Bill 1975 currently before the Senate, be bound by the provisions of the Trade Practices Act 1 974- 1 975 in relation to its commercial operations. 
It has been assumed that the reference in your memorandum to 'commercial operations' is meant to include all operations of AGIC except those relating to the National Interest Insurance Fund. 
The Trade Practices Act, inter alia, prohibits corporations from engaging in conduct either specified in Part IV of the Act to be restrictive trade practices or specified in Part V (Division 1) to be unfair practices. Section 4 of the Act defines a corporation to include a body corporate that carries on the business of insurance as its sole or principal business. There seems little doubt that AGIC would fall within this definition. Clause 6 of the Bill constitutes AGIC as a body corporate, and clause 7 indicates that insurance is to be its sole business. 
However, the Trade Practices Act does not bind a body that can claim the shield of the crown. Accordingly it must be considered whether AGIC, whilst a separate legal personality, would still be regarded in law as a servant, agent or emanation' of the Crown. In the view of this Department it could not be so regarded. 
Whether or not a statutory corporation can be regarded as a servant, agent or emanation of the Crown will always depend upon the construction of the statute creating the corporationwhether the legislature intended the corporation to have that relationship with the Crown. The AGIC Bill  does not expressly give the corporation any character of relation to the Crown. The leading statement of the law in this regard is contained in the judgment of the case Launceston Corporation v The Hydro-Electric Commission (1959) 100 C.L.R. 654, where Dixon C. J., Fullagar, Menzies and Windeyer J. J. said: 
Both in England and Australia there is evidence of a strong tendency to regard a statutory corporation formed to carry on public functions as distinct from the Crown unless parliament has by express provision given it the character of a servant of the Crown.' (at p.662; see also State Electricity Commission of Victoria v City of South Melbourne ( 1968) 1 18 C.L.R. 504). 
It remains to consider whether it is a necessary implication from the provisions of the Bill that AGIC has the shield of the Crown. No such implication should be drawn. The Board of AGIC is largely independent of ministerial control. It can even disregard any direction from the Minister under clause 13 which is not in accordance with sound commercial principles. Staff of AGIC are appointed by the Board and are not employed under the Public Service Act. Finances of the corporation are to be separate from the Commonwealth Public Account and profits of the corporation are not to be paid totally to the Public Account. The corporation is to be subject to taxation. 
Another matter that has been considered is whether AGIC is given specific authority or approval by the Bill, such as would except its conduct (pursuant to section 5 1 ( 1 ) (a) of the Trade Practices Act), from the operation of the provisions relating to restrictive trade practices in Pan IV of the Trade Practices Act. in the view of this Department there is no provision in the Bill that would specifically authorize or approve any conduct that would otherwise contravene a provision of Part IV of the Trade Practices Act. 
In summary, the Trade Practices Act will apply to the commercial operations of AGIC. 
G. HARTNELL 
for Secretary 20 August 1975 
I should like to deal with some of the matters which have been dealt with in a statement which was made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in another place, who made the announcement somewhat belatedly that the Opposition would oppose this legislation. He took his time about it. He was berated by  Senator Steele  Hall who in one of his characteristic left-right switches was outflanking the Liberal Party from the right on this occasion and saying that Liberal Party members were a wishy-washy lot who would not make up their minds about creeping socialism.  Mr Fraser  has been repudiated by his former leader- although one could hardly say his close friend- the former Prime Minister,  Mr John  Gorton, who has expressed his support for the establishment of an Australian Government insurance corporation, once again giving evidence of that great patriotism which  Mr Gorton  has always shown. Even though we may have disagreed with him on certain aspects of his policies, no one has ever disputed that he is a patriot. 
He has shown his patriotism once again in his support for this patriotic piece of legislation. 

 Mr Fraser has said that the Government has disadvantaged the insurance industry already in the last 2 Budgets by increasing the industry's tax liabilities. The tax changes brought insurance companies into line with other commercial companies. They did not disadvantage insurance companies; they removed advantages from them which they previously had over other commercial operations. We did not disadvantage them as compared with anybody else.  Mr Fraser  went on to say that this Government now proposes to set up a new and powerful competitor with certain commercial advantages- I stress the words 'with certain commercial advantages'- in an already highly competitive industry to the further detriment of the private sector. The Australian Government Insurance Corporation would have no discernible commercial advantage. It would pay taxes on the same basis as its competitors. The Bill requires that, like its competitors, it must act in accordance with sound commercial principles and must pay dividends on its capital and interest on all its borrowings. 
It would have no advantage whatsoever apart from the fact that, as a government instrumentalityjust like the Commonwealth Bank or the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission, as it was, or Trans-Australia Airlines- it would be guaranteed by the Government. Of course it would be guaranteed by the Government. But, unlike the directors of various insurance companies who are not responsible to their policy holders, the Australian Government would be responsible to its policy holders. If the Government were pouring vast sums of money into an unprofitable enterprise then it would be answerable at the elections in a way in which the directors in Zurich, Amsterdam, London and New York of insurance companies that are operating in Australia are not responsible to their policy holders when they use their funds to defeat a democratically elected Australian government. The Government would be responsible. 

 Mr Fraser this is probably the last point with which I wish to deal at any length- has said that the Australian insurance industry provides the private sector with 10 per cent of its total private capital formation. That is true. This is regarded as being a great virtue. Some well may wonder whether such a narrow group as that ought to be quite so influential in the total economy of the country. But let us accept that this is a good thing; let us not dispute it. The Australian insurance industry provides 10 per cent of the total capital formation. What difference does the establishment of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation make to this? The Bill clearly provides that the board has a responsibility to invest the funds of policy holders on sound commercial principles. They are subject to audit, they are subject to scrutiny to see that the funds are invested on sound commercial principles. The only reason they would not invest on sound commercial principles would be if the private sector were not the best place in which to invest. Otherwise, of course they will invest the funds in this way. 
We decided to establish an Australian Government Insurance Corporation not only for the reasons which I have already mentioned and which have been dealt with by other Labor senators, but also because we as a Party do not believe in unrestricted capitalism. We believe in state intervention. We believe in state enterprise. It is no use honourable senators opposite extolling the virtues of the free enterprise system when, as they look around the world, they ought to be able to see that the so-called free enterprise system, the capitalist system, is in rags and tatters and in a state of collapse in every country in which it operates. It is either inflation or unemployment, or it is both. One of the reasons this is the case, as Joan Robinson, the British economist, pointed out so clearly when she was in Australia only a few weeks ago, is that it is an absurdity to expect a system to function whereby the saleability of goods and services somehow will produce that ideal equilibrium where everybody is working and is well housed, there is no pollution and there are no wars. It does not work. 
Throughout the world the capitalist system is collapsing, and in a large part of the world it already has collapsed, never to be restored. Without commenting on their civil liberties, let us look at Latin America at present. What is happening in three of the strongest industrial countries in Latin America, the three most developed countries in Latin America, the three most white of the Latin American countries- Argentina, Chile and Uraguay? They all have capitalist systems. One has a capitalist system which recently was restored in a most brutal manner. Where are they? They are in shreds and tatters. There is unemployment, inflation, violence and repression. Let us compare them with Cuba. Whatever one may think about Cuba's political system, what is the problem in that country? There is a shortage of manpower, not a shortage of jobs. The people of the world are aware of this. 
We are a modest Party. We are a social democratic Party. We believe in attaining our ends by peaceful means and by the maintenance of the democratic parliamentary system. We believe that we want to bring about our changes gradually by state enterprise competing with private enterprise so that people can make their choice. I think that the owners of the insurance companies and the people in this Parliament who represent the owners of the insurance companies have not been very intelligent in the way in which they have approached this Bill. There is a well recognised principle in the science of physics, that for every action there is an equal and opposite reaction.  Sir Vincent  Fairfax and the newspaper proprietors cum insurance company directors- the insurance companies own 43 per cent of the shares in the Herald and Weekly Times Ltd, there are these interlocking directorates- and the people who are opposed to the working people of this country and to the party which represents the working people of this country have not been very clever, because there has been an equal and opposite reaction to their action of trying to discredit this Government and its policy not only on this issue but also on its whole program of social welfare, its whole program of bringing equality to the people of Australia. There has been this reaction, and in due course I believe that these people will pay for it. 
There are now people whose wrath has been aroused by the campaigns which have been waged against this Government, against the Australian Labor Party by the private insurers who had never hitherto given one moment's thought to the private insurance companies. I think that honourable senators opposite and the private insurance companies ought perhaps to think sometimes about the words of the old American negro spiritual, which I am sure that  Senator Everett,  knowing his religious background, would remember, which is: 
God gave Noah the rainbow sign, 
This time water; the fire next time. 
If these people continue to resist the small, modest, peaceful proposals such as those that we are putting forward here today, perhaps they will succeed- perhaps not now- in getting rid of the Labor Government and coming back into office, but they will go the same way as their counterparts have gone throughout the whole of the world. We in this Government have offered them the opportunity to bring about peaceful changes which are inevitable one way or the other. If they do not want to accept that, if they want to reject the will of the people, if they want to reject this Bill, they ultimately and the people whom they represent are the ones who will pay for it. 

 -No, Mr President, I will not say: 'Yes, yes, yes'. I will give an answer which I am sure  Senator Missen  will not like. As it happened,  Mr President  - 
For the information of honourable senators I present the first edition of a 'Handbook of Health Manpower' prepared by the Australian Department of Health. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the annual report of the Australian Department of Social Security for the financial year ended 30 June 1975. 
I dare say that this matter is one which could have been dealt with by the appropriate Estimates committee or during the debate on the Estimates, but as it is a matter of interest I have obtained some information concerning it. The Fawnmac group of companies was purchased by the Australian Government after an investigation by the Australian Industry Development Corporation which was asked to identify a pharmaceutical company suitable for acquisition by the Australian Government. The Fawnmac group was found to be the most suitable. It is an Australian owned group, with a good profit record. The acquisition of the Fawnmac companies was negotiated after the ordinary commercial approaches were made. The formula which was negotiated by the AIDC with the owners of Fawnmac for the purchase of the companies was a flat $2. lm plus 5 times the consolidated net profits before tax of the companies being acquired. The increase from approximately $6.3m at the time of the public announcement to which  Senator Poyser  has referred to the $8.4m provided in the Budget is simply a reflection of increased earnings by the companies. The formula was based on the profits of the company in 1973-74 or 1974-75, whichever were the greater. I have a table which sets out a calculation on the purchase price of the Fawnmac group of companies, which I shall table for the information of honourable senators. 
I do not know whether this will create a precedent for anybody else. That is something which only someone with much more prophetic power than I have would dare to prognosticate. Whether it sets a precedent or not, it is a rather desirable precedent that the Government is able to save nearly $3m through not having to post a stack of receipts and useless pieces of paper all round Australia to people who do not want them. 
The documents which will be sent to those who have paid their Medibank accounts will be completely sufficient for them to obtain their rebates from the various private medical funds. I should have thought that  Senator Townley  would like to join in with the rest of us in cutting back public expenditure, particularly in this unprofitable section of the public sector. I am really quite distressed to learn that there are members of the Liberal Party who would want us to act in such a profligate manner with public funds in sending useless documents all over Australia in the way in which  Senator Townley  apparently would like us to do. 
-Yes, I can. I do have that information available, now that the honourable senator has raised the subject. In answering this question, I think it should first be said that, because of the actions this Government has taken in relation to the means test, it is now possible for a veteran to receive not only a pension for total and permanent incapacity but also, if he has no other income or property, a considerable additional amount in the form of a service pension. A single veteran under 70 years of age can receive a total of $ 104.33 a week, which is $5,425 a year. A married veteran and his wife who are under 70 years of age can receive a combined total of $ 140.37 a week or $7,300 a year. In both of these situations where the recipients are 70 years or more and can benefit from the abolition of the means test, the amounts are $112.85 a week or $5,868 per annum, and over $142 a week or nearly $7,500 per annum. I think it is important to remember that these amounts are tax free and that the equivalent taxable incomes per annum are as follows: For a single veteran under 70 it is $6,632 - 
I know that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack with his vast resources in the western districts of Victoria, is not interested in this, but the people I represent in this Parliament are interested in these matters and I believe they should be explained. For a veteran over 70 years of age it is $7,327 per annum. For a married veteran under 70 years of age it is $9,600 per annum. If he is over 70 years of age, it is $9,800 per annum. As at present the average weekly earnings are $8,300 a year, it can easily be seen that through this Government steps have been taken to see that veterans are coming much closer to receiving the average weekly earnings by way of benefits than they have done under any of the previous governments. The difference between our Government and the previous Government is that the other Government conscripted Australians to go off and fight but did not look after them when they came back; we opposed them being sent but when they came back we looked after them. 
-To answer the second part of the question first, I do not think that there would be any justification for any such claim. I find  Mr Scarlett,  who, despite his name, seems to be particularly upset by the red peril, to be rather disconcerting in some of the claims that he makes. He says, for example, that the use of sessional payments for services provided by medical practitioners in hospitals is part of a socialist plot; yet we find if we turn to Queensland, where  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  is the Premier and head of government, that that State has been in fact operating a salaried medical service and a system of sessional payments for services provided by medical practitioners in its hospitals during the entire tenure of office of the said  Mr Bjelke-Petersen.  I should have thought that even the Australian Medical Association would be hard pressed to justify the claim that  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  is in any way a socialist or communist or that he subscribes to Marxist, Fabian or, for that matter, Bakuninite views. If we were to turn to other distinguished people who have held these views we might recollect that there was a meeting of Australian Health Ministers in Melbourne in 197 1. That conference issued a statement that the honorary system was to be replaced. The Ministers said that everybody agreed that that anachronistic system must go, and that a system of sessional payments for visiting specialists appointed to hospital staff to treat public or standard ward patients be adopted, as this was in the interests of patient care and would provide better administration of hospitals and a better form of medical teaching. 
-That was a conference of Health Ministers in 1971. One tends to forget, in the light of his subsequent activities, that  Senator Greenwood  was once the Minister for Health. In fact he was the Australian Minister for Health at that conference which issued the declaration, without a dissenting voice, in favour of the replacement of the honorary system by the sessional payments system. I do not think  Senator Greenwood  is a socialist. I have heard it claimed but I tend on the whole to reject the claim. If  Mr Scarlett  is saying that  Senator Greenwood  is a socialist, then I do not think he is being strictly accurate. At the same time I do not think it is fair of  Mr Scarlett,  as a spokesman for the Australian Medical Association, to reflect in such a way on the loyal body of doctors in Queensland, such as  Senator Sheil's  colleagues, who have worked for many years under a salaried and sessional basis under the aegis of  Sir Frank  Nicklin and  Mr Bjelke-Petersen. 
I am interested in  Senator Baume  's approach to this question. Apparently he is one of those Liberals who think that the expenditure by the Government in the public sector ought to be maintained or increased. As I understood it, the main criticism by his Party of this Government was that it was spending too much money on social welfare. I am interested to note that  Senator Baume  differs from the majority of members of his own Party. 
I will come to that but, if I may say so, the practice which I intend to follow every time somebody from the Opposition complains about steps which have been taken by the Government to cut back expenditure in the public sector, is to ask honourable senators opposite the question: If we are not to cut back here, which part of the expenditure in the public sector is to be cut back? Having said that, let me add that what we determined on this occasion was to endeavour to adjust the age pension in accordance with the consumer price index. It would seem that, largely as a consequence of the sucessful efforts which the Government has been making to combat inflation, the adjustment in line with the consumer price index will still provide about 25 per cent of the average weekly earnings and, if anything, that the pensioners may be receiving more than 25 per cent of the average weekly earnings. 
I refer  Senator Webster  to the figures. I think they are readily available. If  Senator Webster  would like me to make a statement on the figures later I will be only to happy to do so, but he will find that this is the case. 
-No, it is not 21 per cent. The honourable senator is quite wrong. 
-It is at least in excess of 24 per cent. 
Well, it is at least in excess of 24 per cent. There is not much point in saying yes it is or no it is not. The fact is that it is at least in excess of 24 per cent- unless the Statistician, my Department and everybody else associated with the Government have been completely misled and are not privy to information which in some mysterious way has come into the hands of  Senator Webster.  We do not propose to take into account the matters which  Senator Baume  has raised, which are propositions which the Minister for Labor and Immigration has advanced with regard to applications concerning the indexation of wages before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. They have no bearing on the matters with which I am dealing in my Department, and certainly in making any calculation on the consumer price index we would be thinking of the consumer price index as it always has been established. In any event, the policy of the Labor Party remains the same, that is, to de the age pension to the average weekly earnings. What we have done has been to take drastic measures in relation to what we regardeven though  Senator Baume  apparently does not- as being the drastic situation in which we find ourselves at the present time. 
I can only repeat that this is no new formula. All that we decided to do on this occasion was to see that the pension - 
I am not ducking any question. I am saying that there is no new formula whatsoever. 
I am telling the honourable senator that the policy of the Labor Party is to tie the age pension to the average weekly earnings. That is our policy. That is our objective. Because we believe that we have been subject to inflationary pressures, what we are doing on this occasion as part of our effort to cut down on spending in the public sector-  Senator Baume  apparently thinks it is not high enough- is not to pursue that part of the policy but to see that at least the pensioners will not lose their purchasing power but will keep up with the increase in the consumer price index. I am afraid that I have nothing further to add. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill before the Senate contains provisions relating to the furnishing of information to the Department of Health by manufacturers or distributors of pharmaceutical benefits and is consistent with a recommendation of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices, which inquired into the effect of the December 1972 revaluation of the Australian dollar. In its first report of November 1973 the Committee recommended, among other things, that:   the National Health Act be amended to allow the Department of Health to obtain cost and financial information in respect of products in the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme. 
More than 80 per cent of all dispensed medicines are supplied under the provisions of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. At present there is no power under the National Health Act requiring manufacturers or distributors of pharmaceutical benefits to supply information about costs to the Government and consequently the Department of Health depends on negotiations to try and achieve fair and reasonable prices for pharmaceutical benefit items. Such negotiations depend for their effectiveness upon the cooperation of the parties. If a satisfactory price cannot be achieved an item may be removed from the list of pharmaceutical benefits. Such delisting may not, however, always be in the public interest because of the therapeutic value of the particular drug. For this reason compromise and offsetting savings, rather than the analysis of cost information, currently play the more significant part in establishing prices of benefit items. 
The Government recognises the need to have information about costs at its disposal when considering the reasonableness of prices for pharmaceutical benefits. Attempts to obtain information on costs from manufacturers and distributors on a voluntary basis have not always been successful, particularly in respect of patented drugs. Under the provisions of the Bill, drug manufacturers and distributors may be required by notice to furnish financial information, including information on prices and costs, about pharmaceutical benefits. The information will be required to be furnished within the time and in a manner specified in the notice. The Bill imposes penalties for failure to comply with the terms of the notice, without reasonable excuse, and for the supply of false or misleading information. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Guilfoyle)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to incorporate my second reading speech in Hansard. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bonner)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
In order to meet rising costs the Government has decided to increase the amounts payable by patients for drugs and medicinal preparations supplied as pharmaceutical benefits. The Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  announced the Government's intentions in this regard on  24  July  1975.  The Bill will amend the National 
Health Act by increasing patient contributions for general benefits from $1 to $1.50 and for benefits supplied to beneficiaries under the subsidised health benefits plan from 50c to 75c. The increases will take effect from 1 September 1975. As in the past, eligible pensioners, that is those holding a pensioner medical service entitlement card, will not be charged for their pharmaceutical benefits. Similarly, no charge will be made for repatriation prescriptions. This increase of 50 per cent is the first rise in patient contributions since 1971 when the amount for general benefits was increased by 100 per cent. The new patient contributions will still be less, in relation to purchasing power, than at the time of the previous rise since prices generally rose by 53.8 per cent on a cumulative basis in the 4 years from June 1971 to June 1975. In common with charges for other services and specialist equipment the cost of medical goods and services has increased at a faster rate than the general price index. Fortunately the rises in the wholesale prices of drugs listed under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme have not been as great as for the more Labor- intensive health services. 
Following the 1972-73 inquiry into pharmacy earnings, costs and profits carried out by the Joint Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits Pricing Arrangements, the Minister for Health announced on 24 July 1975 that chemists would receive higher dispensing fees to be paid in part retrospectively to 1 July 1973. It is estimated that retail chemists will benefit by $5 8m this financial year including extra payment in respect of the previous 2 years from the increase in dispensing fees. Faced with the argument that public sector spending should be restrained, the Government has been obliged to increase the patient contributions to partially offset such increasing costs. In a full year, revenue from the increase in pharmaceutical benefits charges authorised by this Bill will amount to approximately $34m. Assuming the higher charges operate from 1 September 1975, they will yield $26m this financial year. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Cotton)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Yes, the previous Minister for Social Security in a press release dated 16 April 1975, did make that statement. Concerning the cost of standard ward care in State psychiatric hospitals I would like to refer the honourable senator to his question No. 557 to the then Minister for Social Security and my answer which appeared in the Hansard of 5 June 1975. 
Accommodation and treatment is free in State psychiatric hospitals in all States except New South Wales and South Australia. In South Australia patients are not charged for the first 28 days of any period of treatment in a mental institution. 
The other point to which I would direct the honourable senator's attention is the press statement issued by the Australian Ministers for Health following their Annual Conference in Perth on 8-9 May 1975, when it was announced that a Working Party comprising representatives from each State as well as from the Australian Departments of Health and Social Security and the Hospitals and Health Services Commission would be formed. The Working Party would review the present system of financing psychiatric hospitals and consider the close co-ordination of psychiatric services and the general hospital system. Included in this review would be the possibility of off-setting general revenue grants to the States for psychiatric institutions. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
No. 
and (3) The report is prepared from the annual returns of the medical and hospital benefit organisations registered under the National Health Act. The requirements of section 76a of that Act as to the matters to be contained in the report necessitate a detailed and expert analysis of the annual returns, the last of which was not received in the Department of Social Security until the end of January 1975. The compilation of the report has been completed and the DirectorGeneral of Social Security has authorised its being printed. It will be tabled in the Budget Sessional period immediately after it is furnished to me by the Director-General. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
The article referred to is extracted from a paper which was published in the New England Medical Journal (Vol. 291, p. 697-700) and which considered the mothers of a group of children with limb deformities. These women were exposed to significantly greater numbers of a variety of hormonal preparations given for various reasons during pregnancy, compared to the exposure suffered by a control group of mothers having normal children. From this study the authors were unable to draw conclusions relating to oral hormonal contraceptive agents, because of other differences between experimental and control groups. This and other related papers will be drawn to the attention of the Congenital Abnormalities Sub-committee of the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee at its meeting on 1 2 September 1975. 
Pending consideration by the Congenital Abnormalities Sub-committee, no changes are proposed to the present availability of oral hormonal contraceptive preparations. They will continue to be available only on a medical practitioner's prescription. The Australian Drug Evaluation Committee has recommended that patients should have access to prescribing information for oral contraceptives, phrased in non-technical terms. Arrangements are proceeding to produce this information which will be available from medical practitioners and pharmacists. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The item in Adverse Drug Reactions Bulletin (No. 6) indicated that chloramphenicol should be suspected in a recently reported episode of aplastic anaemia. Because of the concurrent administration of two other antibiotics, this reaction cannot be definitely ascribed to chloramphenicol. 
and (3) Yes. 
Chloramphenicol is only available as a pharmaceutical benefit for a number of serious conditions including typhoid fever and bacterial meningitus and since the warning by the ADEC was published in 1971 prescribing of chloramphenicol as a benefit has fallen by over 60 per cent. Both the ADEC and PBAC have kept a close scrutiny on the level of usage of the drug and the Department of Health will continue to exercise close surveillance where doctors appear to be prescribing chloramphenicol as a benefit for minor infections regardless of the warnings which have been repeatedly issued concerning this antibiotic over the last 20 years both in Australian and International medical literature. 
I understand that the items remain as benefits for pensioners. I am informed that items which cost $1.50 or less are not regarded as pharmaceutical benefits, but they remain as benefits for pensioners. I hope that that answer satisfies  Senator Baume. 
-They will not necessarily be removed from it, no. I suggest to  Senator Baume,  because I think he will appreciate that I am in this chamber the Minister representing the Minister for Health and that I do not have this type of detail in my possession, that if he were to direct a question on notice to me at a later stage I would provide him with full information about the matter. I am afraid that I am just not in a position to provide that type of detailed information in this debate. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
-As a matter of fact, now that  Senator McAuliffe  has raised the matter, I have noticed that. My experience over the last few months has been that the situation is rather curious. In my time I have belonged to some organisations that I thought were notorious for their leaks, but they have been nothing like some of the insurance companies. Once there is a meeting of the board of directors of any insurance company or a rally of the most closely trusted senior executives of the various insurance organisations, I find sooner or later- generally it is sooner rather than later- that there is in my hands complete documentation of what was decided. If I were  Sir Vincent  Fairfax or one of the other gentlemen who manage to mix their occupations of disseminating news through their journals and wellbeing to citizens through their insurance companies I would be very distressed to think, as I am sure  Senator McAuliffe  would be also, that people who occupied positions so close to them were obviously so opposed to the policies of their insurance companies that they provided all this information to a socialist as notorious as myself. In fact I am sure that does show, as  Senator McAuliffe  has so rightly pointed out, an upsurge of opinion amongst those people. No one could be more experienced in the machinations of insurance companies than those who work there in their sexist, racist and discriminatory anti-Labor activities. Only this very morning another document came into my possession, one published by the life offices. 
-There have been a number of meetings. They were supposed to be secret meetings but they were not as secret as the secret people who called them thought they would be. I had something handed to me today. 
-No. I can assure the honourable senator that compared with this, Caucus is like a Franciscan confessional. The document that I received this morning is entitled Life Leads. It has a lot of interesting information in it. It contains an article by  Mr Baume  of Patrick Partners, the candidate for the seat of Macarthur. He has given some advice to the Government on sound financial management. That was quite interesting. There are some legal thoughts on the constitutionality of the Compensation Bill. There is a sort of a forerunner of where to look for advertisements; you know, those funny advertisements of a man with a rabbit's thing over his head and somebody else with a hole in his head. It says that if you watch your newspapers you will be able to see these advertisements and if you would like special copies on glossy paper you can have them. 
It turns out from this document that between 8 June and 24 November 188 of those advertisements have been inserted by insurance companies in major daily newspapers throughout Australia. One may well ask where the money is coming from to pay for these advertisements. I would be interested to hear from the Opposition members, who talk so freely about secret ballots in trade unions and the democratic election of trade union officials- something with which I largely agree- when they are going to call for a secret ballot amongst the policy holders in these insurance companies - 
I must confess that I had not thought of that aspect of the matter, but it would seem to me that if tax deductions are to be given for advertising then the advertising ought to be relevant to the business in which the person is engaged. I do not believe that it is relevant to advertise for the defeat of a democratically elected government or proposals on which that Government was elected. I shall certainly refer  Senator Gietzelt  's question to the responsible Minister. It does seem to me that it would be quite improper for subsidies of this kind, paid by the taxpayers in general, to be given to insurance companies in a way in which they are not given to any other section of the community. None of the rest of us, when we make donations to the Australian Labor Party to assist in its campaign, are entitled to deductions. I do not believe that when the Australian Mutual Provident Society provides its facilities to the National Country Party it should be entitled to a taxation deduction. 
I have seen the item referred to by  Senator Coleman.  In fact, it was a letter from a  Dr Cranley  who, apart from being a medical practitioner, has lost his deposit on innumerable occasions as a Democratic Labor Party candidate for Parliament. The Health Insurance Act provides that the medical benefit for any medical service in a State shall be calculated at 85 per cent of the scheduled fee for that service in that State, subject to a maximum difference of $5 between the benefit and the scheduled fee. From 1 July 1975 scheduled fees were determined by an independent private inquiry. Its terms of reference were to determine fair and reasonable fees for medical benefit purposes. I think it is fair to say that in determining those fees there were found to be differences between States. As  Senator Sheil  said, in an unaccustomed flash of lucidity, that is regionalism. I am sorry to see this difference between  Senator 
Sheil and a fellow member of what was known in its brief career in Western Australia as the National Alliance. 
The Australian Medical Association participated in this inquiry in conjunction with the Department of Social Security. The Government accepted the fees determined and implemented them for medical benefit purposes. In many instances the fees so determined for the same medical service varied from State to State. In fact, quite a number of complaints were received from Tasmanian medical practitioners, who found that their fees had been fixed much below the fees fixed in all, I think, of the mainland States. In the example which was cited by  Dr Cranley,  the benefit as determined is a percentage of the scheduled fee, so it naturally follows that the benefits payable for those services will vary from State to State. It would have been a much fairer example, if  Dr Cranley  had wanted to be fair, to quote both the fees and the benefits applicable to those services. 
-The only say which the Australian Government has is when there has been a breach of the Life Insurance Act or the Insurance Acts under which there are independent commissioners who are responsible. The regulatory power which the Australian Government has largely results from legislation introduced by the previous government which had found that there was such a dreadful mess, particularly in the field of general insurance, that it had to regulate the activities of the companies. We support that action. We have made it perfectly clear in our proposals to establish an Australian Government Insurance Corporation that in all material respects it will be subject to precisely the same legislation. It will be subject to the Insurance Acts, it will be subject to the Life Insurance Act and it will be subject to the Trade Practices Act. I noted that although there have been a number of comments, to the effect that the Australian Government Insurance Corporation will not be subject to the Trade Practices Act, by the spokesmen for the - 
I know this is upsetting  Senator Wright. 
If he is not upset I would hate to see what his face looks like when he is upset. Although the spokesmen have said that the Australian Government Insurance Corporation will not be subject to the Trade Practices Act it is our advice that it will be. Unless  Senator Wright  was demurring in some way- it was a little difficult to disentangle precisely what it was he was uttering- none of the Liberal Party lawyers has said at any stage that it will not be subject to the Trade Practices Act. The only people who have been saying it are  Mr Renton  and other public relations men who work for the insurance companies. It is interesting that although a couple of days ago I incorporated in  Hansard  a letter from the Secretary of the Attorney-General's Department giving an opinion as to why the Australian Government Insurance Corporation would be subject to the Trade Practices Act, nobody representing the insurance companies or the Liberal Party has attempted in any way to rebut the opinion that was there given. 
I am rather pleased that  Senator Webster  has raised this matter. I do not intend to produce anything today or tomorrow because in fact it has already been produced. The documents were incorporated in a speech of mine and, if I recollect correctly, were tabled. The documents referred to a meeting which took place in Parliament House between representatives of the Australian Mutual Provident Society and a number of members of the National Country Party in which the AMP Society entered into an arrangement with the National Country Party to provide the services of its field officers to assist National Country Party candidates. Now that is a donation of services which are paid for by the policy holders of the AMP Society; that is a donation to the National Country Party. As the matter of other donations has been raised, I must say that it is rather curious that one other interesting donation from an insurance company has slipped  Senator Webster's  memory. The Leader of his own Party publicly acknowledged that the sum of $70,000, I think it was, had been received by the National Country Party from Federation Insurance Ltd in Victoria. 
in reply- I appreciate the comments that have been made by  Senator Guilfoyle,  who always speaks in a most moderate and sensible manner on the subjects she discusses, even if I am not necessarily in agreement with her, and  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson whom we all remember as a most distinguished Minister for Health. I suppose that I have to accept some of their strictures. There has been a departure from the Labor 
Party policy which we put forward in 1 97 1 when this Act was being debated. But I do not believe that in the existing circumstances we can afford to be dogmatic about a number of matters on which I for one would like to be dogmatic. 
As the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland)  said earlier today, we are in a position at the moment of economic crisis. Perhaps minor crisis is the correct description. It may not be a major crisis, but certainly there are elements of economic crisis. One of the factors which contributes to that crisis we believe- it is a conclusion which we have come to only very reluctantly- is that there has been excessive expenditure in the non-profitable and non-productive elements of the public sector such as in the field of social welfare including pharmaceutical benefits. Although our ultimate objectives remain the same as they have been, and as they were put forward in 1971, it would be irresponsibly dogmatic of us to persist in every given circumstance with general principles which may not have applicability in the particular circumstances in which we find ourselves. 
The increase in the price of pharmaceutical goods, for the people who receive those things, is only of quite a small order but it does bring an anticipated $34m into the revenue of the Commonwealth. It does reduce the deficit by $34m. It does thereby reduce the pressures of direct and indirect taxation on the productive parts of the private sector. That is why we have done it. There is no argument about that. That is why we have taken this action. I am sorry that we have had to do it. We still abide by our original policy but we have taken this action because we believe that we had no alternative. 
Despite his romantic name  Sir Walter  Scott seems to deal with a number of very mundane matters. One of them is this question of pharmaceutical charges. Once again I personallyand I think I would be speaking for the Governmentwould prefer matters such as this one to be settled by arbitration and not by arbitrariness on behalf of the Government or on the part of anybody else. I do not think that  Senator Guilfoyle  is quite correct in saying that pressure is being applied to doctors to bulk bill. Certainly I, as Minister for Social Security, would prefer them to bulk bill. I believe that ultimately they will bulk bill in the same way as the Canadian doctors with a rather similar scheme in that country have done what is tantamount to bulk billing. Certainly I have not applied, and I have given instructions that my Department shall not apply, any pressure to any of those doctors who use the other 2 methods which are lawful under the Health Insurance Act for the billing of patients. 
In fact, my own State branch of the Australian Labor Party wanted me to provide it with a list of doctors who were bulk billing. I refused to do so. I believe that it would be improper. There are other means, quite lawful, which we negotiated with the Australian Medical Association whereby doctors could function within Medibank. I do not think that it would be proper for us to apply pressure. In due course, I think that these doctors will come to the conclusion that this is a more sensible way for them to transact their business, in the same way as the Australian Optometrical Association right at the beginning agreed. 
I am advised by officers of the Department of Health regarding the Scott Committee that the original agreement which was entered into by the previous Government with the Pharmacy Guild provided that the inquiry into pharmacy earnings, costs and profits in the financial year 1972-73 would form the basis of new rates of remuneration. No undertaking was given at that time, so I am informed, that the recommendations of the  chairman  of the joint committee would be automatically accepted by the Government.  Sir Walter  Scott provided recommendations on 2 matters only. They were the inclusion of goodwill in the funds employed and the relatively economic pharmacy approach. 
As I understand it from this information undertakings were not given, although I do repeat that I would prefer that matters such as this should be the subject of arbitration, but as we are not bound in this instance to be subject to this arbitration, as we are in the economic situation to which I have referred, and as we need the $34m which is to be forthcoming from doing this, we decided in the best interests of everybody that this was the proper course to adopt. I do not believe that the additional charges are of such a nature that they will impose great hardship particularly when one takes into account the special benefits which are available for repatriation beneficiaries and pensioners. I thank the Opposition for its co-operation in the handling of this second reading stage of the Bill. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
I do not know to what extent the Minister for Health has suffered from that. I do not think that as yet I have been accused of being a wowser. Many responsible people are concerned about what seems to be a rising trend in drug usage in Australia. The Minister for Health is aware that the Government and of a lot of voluntary organisations in the educational field have been very hard pressed to match the campaigns which have been waged by those who wish to make popular the use of legal drugs such as alcohol and nicotine. Consumption figures in recent years certainly give no cause for any complacency in this regard. It is for that reason that the Minister for Health has felt obliged to use the weight of his office and the information which he has as Minister for Health in order to lend some assistance to the efforts of those people who are trying to counter the use of these drugs which, I think everybody would admit, are at best unhealthy. 
-Yes, as  Senator Baume  has said, the Government has cut the grants to the anti-smoking people. It has cut a number of grants this year. It has been trying to cut down on spending in the public sector. I know that  Senator Baume  opposes that sort of thing. Despite all of that, there has been a reduction in consumption in the higher age groups, and the evidence also suggests that fewer young males are taking up smoking. What is apparently more serious is that the number of young females who are taking up smoking is increasing. In fact, I have been so distressed by all of this that, as one who has been smoking ever since his quite early school days, I have to confess I bought a small article which looks like a cigarette. If one wants to retain a sort of Humphrey Bogan image, one puts it in one's mouth and if people are not too close they do not see that it is not a real cigarette. It has many of the effects of smoking a cigarette. One tends to get a headache after a while and a nasty taste in the mouth. 
-Yes, it is oral gratification of a type which is not always available to one. Recent statistics, however, do provide some ground for optimism. The consumption patterns of tobacco products in Australia by established smokers, among whom I would include myself, suggest that the smoking education campaign has been successful in changing smoking habits. The increase in consumption by females can be traced to wide social changes which have transformed our society in many respects. 
With regard to the support from organisations for curbs on smoking, honourable senators will be aware of the marked shift in social attitudes and of the special sections in planes and trains and so on. The prohibition on smoking in public conveyances such as those of the Metropolitan Transport Trust in Perth has certainly had some effect. Another example of at least some efficacy of the campaign is found in the recent decision by the Pharmaceutical Council of New South Wales to endorse a policy statement that tobacco products should not be sold in pharmacies. The Council has adopted a code which states that public health education responsibilities of pharmacists should be applied in connection with the sale of tobacco products. Apparently my colleague the Minister for Health was described recently by  Mr Sigley  on a Melbourne television program as a wowser. Those who counsel moderation in these matters are often described as wowsers, and I am sure that  Dr Everingham,  who has been accused of much worse things in his day than being a wowser, will not be dissuaded by any such accusation from following the course on which he has embarked. 
-To the best of my recollection, a decision has not been made on this matter. That is not because I do not regard it as a serious matter. I hope to be able to make a statement on it shortly. The matter that  Senator Bessell  raises is a serious one. Since the original decision was made with regard to the value of homes and the cost of the maintenance of homes which are owned by age pensioners there has been a quite dramatic level of inflation. I suppose that this is another example of an instance where some sort of indexation ought to be applied. As yet I have no information to give  Senator Bessell.  He will appreciate that with the Budgetary problems with which the Government has been faced this year it has been very difficult, however desirable it may have been, to embark on new initiatives in these matters, but certainly it is not because the matter has been overlooked or because the seriousness of the question to which  Senator Bessell  has so correctly drawn attention has not been appreciated by the Government. 
I am afraid that I do not know the details of the situation at the Darwin Hospital. I ask  Senator Baume  to put the question on notice and I will undertake to ask the Minister for Health to let the honourable senator have a reply as quickly as possible. 
I happen to have in my possession a copy of a letter from a  Mr B.  E. Mclnerney, the  Chairman  of the Life and General Insurance Committee of Tasmania, which is an organisation of private life and general insurance companies. According to the letter that has been sent to 25 responsible people in the industry, that is to say employees of insurance companies,  Mr Mclnerney  refers to the defeat in the Senate of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation Bill. He says: 
Although we can all justly take pride in these efforts they would have come to nothing without the support of the Liberal-National Country Parry in the Parliament and at some time in the future it is possible we will again be looking for this support should National Compensation and National Superannuation be re-introduced by the Government. 
In the meantime, the Liberal Party in Tasmania has asked for the support of the Insurance Industry in the campaigns of endorsed Liberal candidates and I have promised this support. 
On Saturday, 30 August, the party - 
That is the Liberal Party- has asked for forty volunteers to door knock with literature for Michael Hodgman in the Denison electorate. I have promised this support. 
-This letter is from the  Chairman  of the Life and General Insurance Committee in Tasmania. The letter continues: 
It will cost you approximately three hours of your time and I feel confident your support is forthcoming. 
He asks each of the 25 employees to bring one other person with him. He says: 
Please advise me NO LATER THAN 28 August, your intention to assist and advise also the name of your associate. 
He concludes: 
Helpers are requested to report to Liberal Party Headquarters, 30 Patrick Street, Hobart, . . . 
I notice that Opposition senators are saying: Hear, hear!' I hope that, when all Labor supporters and independently minded people throughout Australia are advised of the contents of this and of other letters and of the names of those insurance companies which are using the funds of their policy-holders in order to engage in this campaign and which are blackmailing their employees, as  Senator Missen  said- I take up  Senator Missen  's words- to work against Labor Party candidates, they will draw their own conclusion when the time comes to renew their insurance policies or take out an insurance policy with any of those insurance companies. 
-Not only will I do so; I have done so already. In fact I mentioned this matter yesterday when I referred to the fact that the decisions which are taken by trade unions to affiliate with the Australian Labor Party and to contribute to the funds of the Australian Labor Party are done publicly. Everyone is well aware of them; they are done lawfully, and they are done by a ballot of the members. I am not objecting to the Australian Mutual Provident Society making contributions of whatever kind, be they of goods, services or cash, to any political Party. All I am asking  is  that if the Society does so it conducts a ballot amongst its policy holders in the same way as trade unions do; that it makes the contributions completely public; that if it so wishes it affiliates with the Liberal Party, and that it be prepared to become as clearly identified with the National Country Party as the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union is with the Australian Labor Party. If that is done I have no objection whatsoever. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  Order! That is not a supplementary question. 
-(Western AustraliaMinister for Social Security and Minister for Repatriation and Compensation)- For the information of honourable senators I table the first main report of the Australian Government Commission of Inquiry into Poverty- the Henderson report- titled 'Poverty in Australia '. I also table a much smaller document titled 'Poverty in AustraliaAn Outline', which is a short, easily read summary of the material and major recommendations of the main report.  Mr Deputy President, 
I seek leave to make a short statement on this matter. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Honourable senators will recall that Professor Ronald Henderson, Director of the Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research in the University of Melbourne, was appointed in August 1972 to inquire into poverty in Australia and that his interim report was tabled in April last year. The main report that I have now tabled is a significant and comprehensive document covering such areas as the extent of poverty in this country, groups in poverty, the income needs of poor people, housing, welfare services and employment. 'Poverty in Australia' contains wide-ranging recommendations on social security, welfare services and other provisions. These recommendations bear directly on the policies of government at all levels. They will receive close attention by this Government. 
Professor Henderson's main concern is to ensure every individual an adequate income. To do this, he proposed a series of short term measures along with a long term recommendation for a guaranteed minimum income scheme for all Australians. Honourable senators will recall that a fortnight ago the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  in the Chifley Memorial Lecture, announced that the Government would be undertaking a comprehensive review of income security, which will examine closely all expert reports which are related to the question of income security with the aim of developing 'an equal, fair and workable income security system for Australia'. Professor Henderson's report will be one of the major documents to be considered in the review of this very complex issue. Also of interest in this matter will be the report entitled Possibilities for Social Welfare in Australia' by the Priorities Review Staff which, I understand, is being tabled today in another place. In addition to the main report of Professor Henderson there is a second volume which consists of a number of technical and detailed appendices. It is in the process of being printed and should be available reasonably soon. Volume 2 is expected to be used mainly by researchers and specialists in the field. 
The Government is indebted to Professor Henderson for the work he has done in quantifying the extent and nature of poverty in Australia. I hope that his report will do much to promote informed debate in this very important field. I should also mention that there are four other Poverty Commissioners, each of whom is to report on specific aspects of poverty. They are: Professor Ronald Sackville, who is to report on legal matters; the Reverend George Martin, who is to report on medical and sociological aspects; Professor Ronald Gates, who is to report on selected economic issues; and  Dr R.  T. Fitzgerald, who is to report on educational aspects. The appointment of these Commissioners was announced by the Prime Minister on 13 February 1973, the intention being to broaden significantly the scope of the inquiry. Each of these Commissioners will be reporting separately to the Government. I expect to be able to table their reports by the end of this year or early next year. 
I might add that since I began speaking a note has been passed to me asking me to delete the reference to the tabling today of the report by the Priorities Review Staff entitled 'Possibilities for Social Welfare in Australia'. 
Pursuant to section 16 (2) of the Social Welfare Commission Act 1 973 1 present a report by the Social Welfare Commission entitled 'Care of the Aged'. I seek leave to make a short statement. 
-I have heard a number of criticisms of Medibank but I had not heard so far that it contravenes the Trade Practices Act. I agree with  Senator Sheil  's assertion concluding that there are 3 means whereby any patient can make use of Medibank. I am not familiar with the statement to which the honourable senator has drawn my attention, but certainly there are other ways in which one may obtain Medibank benefits, such as by obtaining a doctor who bulk bills, by paying the doctor, as  Senator Sheil  has said, and then advising Medibank which will reimburse the patient for 85 per cent of the bill or so much as would leave him with the margin which is payable under the legislation. Alternatively, the other course is to obtain a cheque from the Health Insurance Commission payable to the doctor. Any information which indicates that there is only one way in which Medibank can be operated is obviously misleading information. I will need to have a look at the form. I must say that this is the first time I have been advised that the form specifies only one means whereby one can obtain Medibank payment. If the form does mislead people, there must have been a number of oversights by people who have been reading the form. I shall look at it and I will let  Senator Sheil  know whether the problem which he appears to have seen is in fact there. 
I do not really quite know what  Mr Chipp  said. I have always found  Mr Chipp  a most amiable person but he seems of late to have been speaking with a forked tongue. The results of the various proposals which he appears to have been putting forward and about which  Senator Poyser  asks me would be that Medibank would continue and also that it would stop. He seems to have said both, insofar as I can follow what he has been saying over the weekend. One newspaper that I read reported that he said it would be abandoned and the other said that it would continue.  Senator Jessop,  I notice, says that it is a tissue of lies. I would be grateful if he could tell me which one is a tissue of lies- that it will continue or that it will not continue. Either one of them is a tissue of lies or  Mr Chipp  is in need of some medical attention himself for acute schizophrenia. I do not invariably rely on the Sydney  Daily Telegraph  since its pages do not have quite the authority of the Mosaic tablets, but according to the Sydney  Daily Telegraph  a spokesman, whatever that is, for the Leader of the Opposition- I take it by 'Leader of the Opposition' it means  Mr Fraser-  said that Medibank had been passed 3 times by Parliament. 
I do not know why  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson is so upset about this. 
-Yes, I know. We all have problems with spokesmen from time to time. The spokesman that I am coming back to now, that is, the spokesman for the Leader of the Opposition, said that the Medibank legislation had been passed 3 times by the Parliament and had been endorsed twice by the Australian people. I must say that if that is what the spokesman did say, then indeed  Mr Fraser  has a very percipient spokesman and what he said is no less than the truth. The fact is that if  Mr Chipp  were to proceed with his program, if there were to be that unfortunate set of circumstances which would give rise to a government in which  Mr Chipp  would replace me in the office which I occupy at present, it would completely destroy the anticipation of those people and those States who have built up expectations that there will be a system of free hospital and medical attention throughout Australia. That is a system which, despite all of the criticisms which have come from the Australian Medical Association and the General Practitioners Society and those who represent them, has growing acceptance not only amongst the Australian people generally but also amongst the medical profession. 
In answering any such Question, a  Senator shall  not debate the matter to which the same refers. 
The Minister has been going on in a manner to which we have become accustomed in which he roams at large. With respect, he has been debating the answer to the question. When he talks about something having growing acceptance among people whom he regards as authorities, then it appears to me that he is going far beyond a simple answer to a question. Moreover, in answer initially to  Senator Poyser  the Minister said that he did not know what the position of  Mr Chipp  was. How then can he answer the question except by this debating method? I submit that the Standing Orders ought to be upheld and the Minister restrained. 
In conclusion I merely say that with regard to bulk billing, because that is implicit in part of the question asked by  Senator Poyser,  in July 41.2 per cent of the claims which were lodged under Medibank were bulk billing claims. In August this had risen to 43.8 per cent of claims. I think those figures speak for themselves. 
-Yes, I have seen a report in the  Canberra Times  that apparently there was an error in the record of a veteran's service with the Royal Australian Air Force. This error was discovered by the investigation which followed an application by this veteran for repatriation benefits. The discovery was brought about because a repatriation board was investigating his claim very thoroughly. I suggest that errors could occur anywhere. Certainly when one considers the vast number of people who have served in the Australian armed forces and the huge number of people who are eligible for repatriation benefits, the number of errors is of a very small order. This error was discovered by the Department. It seemed to me to be hardly a newsworthy item, but I can assure the honourable senator that the error was detected by the Department. I think that the number of occasions on which anyone can complain of such errors having been committed by the Repatriation Commission or any of the officers of the Commission would be very small indeed. 
-The practice of introducing the giving of reasons for rejection or acceptance of appeals is something which had been advocated for a long time by the Returned Services League, although some other veterans organisations appear to be opposed to it. The Government felt that the representations of the RSL were justified and we have introduced this system of giving reasons. The main argument for it is that in something which is a quasi-judicial matter people who are seeking lawful entitlements are entitled to know why their appeals are successful or unsuccessful. I suppose that of lesser importance, but still of great importance from an administrative point of view, has been the fact that a lot of people were just taking a sort of punt in appealing, not knowing what was really going on with regard to decisions which had been given to them. 
One of the things that we have found since the giving of reasons has been introduced is that there has been a substantial decrease in the number of appeals to the Repatriation Commission from decisions of Repatriation Boards. In fact, in the last quarter there was a decrease from 1584 appeals to 1202 appeals, which is a very significant decrease. I have found also that this seems to be giving considerable satisfaction to the people who are either repatriation beneficiaries or who think they ought to be repatriation beneficiaries in that the number of letters of complaint addressed to the responsible Minister has decreased. No former Ministers for Repatriation are present, but everybody would know that a very considerable volume of letters used to come in from people complaining about the way in which they had been treated by boards and tribunals. Now that the reasons are being given the number has diminished very greatly indeed. So, on the whole, this has proved to be a very satisfactory innovation by the Government. 
I would like to be able to help  Senator Jessop  with this question but I am afraid that it does not fall within the ambit of my responsibilities. I am not responsible for defence service homes or the Australian Housing Corporation. I suggest that he should put the question on notice to the Minister representing the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. 
-The Government intends to stand by the policy on which it was elected. It intends to reintroduce the Bill at the first available opportunity. 
I would be very happy to do that, but I think it ought to be on the basis of a swap. I will provide all that information if the Liberal and Country parties will provide identical information about the goods, services and moneys provided to them by the various life assurance and general insurance companies. 
What appears to be an anomaly in fact results from the fact that payments are made by the Commonwealth to the States of differing amounts in order to assist the nursing homes. The principle on which this Government acts- and on which previous governments acted also- is, as far as possible, to see that the people who need nursing home care in the different States have the facilities of nursing homes available to them. If the charges which are made in the different States by the nursing homes are different, then if one is to see that people in all States are to have the same ability to go into those homes- if they need to go into those homes- it follows that different grants have to be made by the Federal Government in respect of the different States. 
The problem is that the requirements of some States for the nursing homes are higher- I think that would be a fair way to describe them- than the requirements in other States. Consequently, the charges for an individual patient or inmate of a nursing home in a State where the requirements are higher would be greater than in those States where the requirements are not so high. The general view that this Government takes, however, is that, if a State does impose requirements on nursing homes within it which mean that the nursing homes have to provide more and more expensive facilities than in other States, then the burden, or at least some of the burden, in respect of those higher standards- I think one has to call them 'higher standards'ought to be borne by that State rather than by the Commonwealth. There is something anomalous about people living in one State receiving greater benefits from the Federal Government than people in another State. 
We have already taken some steps to introduce a national uniform benefit rate. From 13 November 3 States- New South Wales, Queensland and Western Australia- will be receiving a weekly sum of $66. 1 5 for ordinary care patients. The supplementary intensive care rate will be increased from $2 1 to $30.80 a week in all of the States. In the 3 other States, where the benefit rates are already above that figure of $66.15, no increases are believed to be warranted at this stage. The reduction in the difference between the benefits was foreshadowed by  Mr Hayden  while he was Minister for Social Security when he announced the benefits which were to apply from 15 October 1 974. 1 may add that it does not seem to me, if we have a federal system, and we do have one, that there is anything wrong in one State government deciding that it has higher standards than those adopted by another State. This seems to me to be quite in order as we do have a federal system. But at the same time I think it has to be said that it is somewhat unreasonable, if a State imposes these higher requirements, that the Federal Government- I do not know why  Senator Wright  is getting so excited. 
I thought I was answering the question. It seems to be unreasonable to impose a demand on the Federal Government that it meet the requirements of those States which make these particular impositions. 
-The Nursing Homes Assistance Act which received royal assent on 13 December last brought about the introduction of deficit financing for nursing homes, and a great number of the nursing homes have taken up the facilities which are made available to them by that Act. As at 3 1 July last, out of a total of some 350 nursing homes with a little over 14 000 patients, some 200 homes with nearly 9000 patients had entered into the deficit financing arrangements under the Nursing Homes Assistance Act. As at the end of the last financial yearthat is, 30 June last- a little over $2m had been provided for the deficit financing of nursing homes. It is expected that in the present financial year- that is, 1975-76- somewhat more than $31m will be expended on this form of assistance. 
-One of the fallacies of the approach of the Opposition to the question of Medibank has been to endeavour to delude the people that all the Australian Government expenditure on Medibank has suddenly been thought of and suddenly begun and that there never was any expenditure previously. The voluntary non-comprehensive health scheme which existed before would not have existed if it had not been for massive contributions of Federal Government money- approximately $ 1,000m during the last financial year. This is well known. When  Mr Fraser, Mr Chipp  or anybody else talks about $ 1,450m which is now being spent, he is completely- I think deliberately- overlooking the large sums which were spent by the previous Government. If the range of hospital and medical facilities to the public were to be extended, as it has been because 10 per cent of the population was not covered, there would have to be an increase but it would be certainly nothing of the order which they claim. I am afraid I am not in a position to speak on behalf of the Opposition as to its attitude to Medibank, but it would be very helpful if someone were to issue an authoritative statement once and for all so that we all would know whether it intends to abolish 
Medibank or whether it does not intend to abolish Medibank. I find it is becoming increasingly bewildering to try to work out exactly what the Opposition intends to do about it. 
I think that one of the things which people who work in the field of social welfare have recognised over recent years is that even the most severely disabled people, if they are properly attended to, are able to lead useful lives. It is one of the misfortunes of the present budgetary restrictions that the Government was unable to give assistance to the National Advisory Council for the Handicapped, a body which this Government established and on which two of our former Senate colleagues, Dame Nancy Buttfield and  Mr J.  F. Fitzgerald, are now sitting. Despite that fact, under a policy which I freely acknowledge was begun by the previous Government, quite substantial assistance has been given. From the financial year 1970-71 to the last financial year the amount of money made available to sheltered workshops under the handicapped persons assistance program increased from $5,000 to $61,500. 1 do not believe that that is money which in any respect can be regarded as wasted. It was not a handout. Many people who felt that their lives were finished now find that they can engage in all sorts of useful activities which not only keep them in a quite reasonable frame of mind but also enable them to make a useful contribution to the rest of the community. I think all of us hope that that program can continue and be expanded and that the present budgetary restrictions will not prevent the Government from going ahead with this very important work which, as I would concede, was begun by the previous Government and has continued under this Government. 
I have not heard of the particular episode in Townsville. As I think I told the Senate only a week or two ago, the overwhelming majority of doctors are behaving as one would hope and expect that they would do. They are acting in the best interests of their patients. I did not doubt that they would, and in fact they are doing so. Not only are the overwhelming majority of doctors doing that, but almost half of the accounts which are now being rendered by doctors are in fact being bulk billed. There are some doctors who apparently are taking advantage of their situation to intimidate- I do not think that is too strong a word- their patients. Certainly I should think that if a patient had paid the doctor with a Medibank cheque any subsequent action which the doctor were to take through the courts for any recovery of moneys to be paid in some form other than the Medibank cheque would be unsuccessful. But I would not want to venture at this stage into legal opinions. All I can say is that the doctors who do this sort of thing would seem to have a rather broad interpretation of their hippocratic oath. I should think that in due course they will be found out and the majority of people will go to those doctors whom they know to conduct themselves responsibly and to regard the care of their patients as being the primary object in life and not the making of money or the sabotaging of a democratically elected government's policy. 
I have read the statements and apparently they are true. I must say that the advertisements that I have seen would not have attracted me to smoking had I not been smoking already. The exploits in which those who were smoking were taking part were not exploits which appealed to me very greatly. But I agree that there does seem to have been this effect, that people of  Senator Missen  's vintage and my own apparently are giving smoking up whereas our heirs, successors and assigns apparently are indulging in the practice even more freely. The general cuts which took place with regard to the National Health and Medical Research Council unfortunately were part of the general Budget cutbacks in the public sector. 
-Yes, they were very high. We cut back very substantially in expenditure on the public sector. 
Opposition senators- Ha! Ha! 
-We did indeed. We cut back very extensively. I am interested to learn that the Opposition deplores this. Apparently the Opposition would like to spend more on the public sector. My own view- so far as one is a Minister I do not know whether one can have one's own view- is, and I think the gentleman whom  Senator Missen  quoted has said also, that there ought to be some restrictions on the advertising of cigarettes. I think he made the point that a person gets a knighthood for pushing tobacco whereas another person goes to gaol for pushing marihuana. I think he was making a quite valid point. If  Senator Missen  wants any detailed information about expenditure on cancer research, I think  Dr Everingham  is the proper person to answer the question. If the honourable senator puts a question on notice I will obtain a more detailed answer for him. 
-Again I am not familiar with the detailed matters that  Senator Gietzelt  has raised. I know that there have been allegations of this kind. I am aware that some doctors have been behaving improperly but, as I said earlier, I do not think that the number who are doing this are anything other than a small minority of the members of the medical profession. I do not know specifically what the Australian Medical Association has done about this conduct which would sound unethical. My own experience of the AMA has been that although it has very vigorously and, on some occasions, perhaps even hysterically opposed the Government's programs, I do not think it could be fairly said that at any stage it has countenanced or encouraged improper or illegal conduct by its members. In fact, a great many medical practitioners are not even members of the AMA. I think that only about 52 per cent of doctors are members of the AMA. 
I can only ask people, when they become aware of matters like this, to advise the Health Insurance Commission, the Department of Social Security or me, and we will take what action can be taken if there has been a breach of the law. I believe that in general people will soon be able to identify those doctors who are behaving correctly from those who are behaving incorrectly, and those who are behaving incorrectly, unless they happen to be the only doctors in some small community, will pay a price in the long run for this sort of conduct. But that is not to say that if there have been cases of fraud they ought not to be dealt with, and of course the proper people to deal with them are the members of the police force. We cannot deal with these people unless we have specific information as to who they are and what specifically they did. 
I am not responsible for the administration of other departments or the criteria that are exercised there, but I have given undertakings that the administration of Medibank will be completely confidential from the point of view of both the patients and the doctors, as is the administration of the Repatriation Department. Any complaints that have been made about me since I became a Minister have been because I have refused to reveal information to people and not because I have given information to people. That is a policy which I, as Minister, intend to continue to follow. 
I find it interesting that of recent days  Mr Paul  Johnson seems to have become something of the toast of the petty bourgeoisie. He has never been one of my favourite socialist writers. In fact, I think he is probably the shallowest person who ever occupied the editor's chair at the  New Statesman.  I noticed that just recently he has been read- I presume read; he has at least been quoted- with great enthusiasm by  Senator Hall  and many people of the same political ideology as  Senator Hall. Mr Johnson  has been quoted because of the strictures which he has been casting at the British trade union movement. I think  Senator Hall  let slip a little part of the general purport of  Mr Johnson's  remarks, but I think that  Senator Hall  and anybody else on the opposite side of the Senate who quotes  Mr Johnson  ought to understand what he is really saying.  His  criticisms of the British trade union movement are not from a capitalist point of view. He is critical of the British trade union movement because be believes that the syndicalist approach, as he describes it, of the British trade union movement has been a hindrance to the advancement of socialism in Great Britain. I would not think that either  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, whom I notice is attempting to intervene, or  Senator Hall  would agree with  Mr Johnson  that the brakes ought to be put on the British trade unions or on any other trade unions to advance the cause of socialism. 
I am glad to see that the  New Statesman  is being read by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack and  Senator Hall,  although I wish they had read it more avidly in their youth when Kingsley Martin was editor. They might have a somewhat more enlightened approach to some of the matters that come before the Parliament if they had.  Senator Hall  has quoted the  New Statesman  as an authority. He is a rather late convert. Nonetheless, as they say, I think, at the Beda College in Rome, some of the late converts, the mature converts, make some of the best priests. I think if  Senator Hall,  even as a late convert to the  New Statesman,  were to read it, he would find that the whole tenor of the remarks of people such as Johnson is that a socialist solution is necessary to the problems which at present face the British people and people throughout the whole of the capitalist world. This is the sort of matter which 1 think deserves at least some passing consideration while we are dealing with the Budget, because when we deal with the Budget we deal with the economy of this country, which is primarily a capitalist country, and we cannot look at this Budget without looking at the economies of the other capitalist countries. When we look at all of the capitalist countries, whether they are those which have a substantial measure of social control, such as West Germany, Austria and even Sweden, or whether they are those in which there is very little public control and public ownership we find that all of them are faced with either inflation or unemployment or both. Most of them are faced with both. I submit that this is a natural outcome of the present stage of development of the economic system under which we are living and are likely to be living at least for some considerable number of years to come. 
We have heard from a number of visiting economists, particularly Professor Milton Friedman who, appropriately, was brought here by a firm of stockbrokers, that the solution to all our evils is some adjustment of the monetary system, that inflation can be cured by cutting down on the amount of money which is being printed by the Government. I am sorry to see  Sir Magnus  leaving because I am sure he would have found what I was about to tell him both entertaining and illuminating. Professor Friedman's views are views which have been practised throughout the capitalist world for many years.  His  doctrines are not in any way basically dissimilar from the doctrines of Adam Smith. The doctrines of 
Adam Smith which were applied, I think conscientiously, in both Britain and the United States in the 1 8th and 1 9th centuries led to great misery for the people of those countries and ultimately led to breakdowns in their economic systems. 
A much more perceptive economist has been out here during the past few months. She was not brought here by a firm of stockbrokers. I refer to Professor Joan Robinson of Cambridge University.  Her  analysis was a much more perceptive analysis. The question that she asked, which is the question that I think all of us should be asking, was: 'How can you expect a system to function efficiently and to operate in the best interests of the people living in the country in which it operates when that system is based purely on the chance of people seeking to sell at the highest price and buy at the lowest price?' This is merely a question of luck, if it happens to work. As we find in most things, bad luck or just moderate sort of luck is much more prevalent than really good luck. That is the explanation for the booms, busts and depressions which are more common under the system in which we live than is any position of permanent prosperity. 
These are matters which we must consider when we come to the Budget. The Budget initially, in countries such as Australia, was a fairly simple matter. It was something which was approved by Parliament to grant to the Executive Government the funds to carry on the elementary services which were provided by the King and his courtiers. This is no longer the case. The Budget in Australia, although it does not deal with the whole of the wealth of the country, involves the distribution and the application of wealth of a massive nature and affects every citizen. Areas of the economy cannot be touched by the Budget. We live in a federal system. The States are autonomous still, to a very large extent, from the Federal Parliament. They are able to do a number of things which are not affected by steps taken by the Federal Government in its Budget. Because of the huge volume of our economy which is in private hands- a large part of it in foreign hands- whatever is done in a Budget still goes only part of the way towards resolving any economic questions. As long as we have a private enterprise economy, the authority which can be exercised in any budget is limited. Nonetheless, the Budget is very important. It is very important because something like a quarter of the total expenditure of the country is controlled by the Commonwealth Parliament. For that reason the decisions taken in a budget have profound effects on every person who lives in this country. The present Budget has taken account of that fact. It is the third Budget which has been introduced since the election of an Australian Labor Party government in 1 972. 
We were elected in 1972 with a mandate from the Australian people to bring about massive social changes. We have brought about massive social changes. We have made available to the people of Australia things which were not anywhere near within their grasp under any previous government. Twenty-three years had passed in which the living standards of the Australian people, when one looks at the per capita gross national product of this country, had slipped behind the living standards in comparable countries. When Jack London came to Australia during the term of office of the Fisher Labor Government before the First of War he wrote an essay on Australia in which he described Australia as the most advanced country in the world for workers. Even as late as the period after the Second World War vast numbers of immigrants came to this country from Britain, Western Europe and even northern Europe because the conditions of working people in this country were much better than the conditions which could be found in The Netherlands, Belgium, West Germany or, for that matter, Italy. They no longer come here. They stopped coming here during the period of 23 years government by the previous Government. One of the reasons they stopped coming here, one of the reasons it became almost impossible to obtain immigrants from Western Europe and one of the reasons the previous Government stretched the White Australia Policy to include Turks was because it could not get people to come here from countries such as Austria, West Germany and other parts of Western Europe. The living conditions to which those people were coming in Australia were not as good as the living conditions which they were leaving behind, although the per capita wealth of Australia was greater than the per capita wealth of the countries which they were leaving. One of the reasons was that the level of social services, the level of welfare and the level of education in this country had slipped miles behind those levels in comparable countries in other parts of the world. 
The Australian Labor Party set out to redress that balance. We set out to redress the balance when we found the capitalist system to be in one of its endemic economic crises, when we found that throughout the world there was galloping inflation and unemployment which affected - 
-Yes, it was very sad. It is still not as sad as it was, I think in 1952, as  Senator McAuliffe  reminded us, when the rate of inflation under the previous Government was much higher than it is now under this Government, as was the rate of unemployment. It was very sad indeed. It was a very sad situation in which we found ourselves. Therefore we have needed to co-operate with organisations such as the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development to redress this balance. 

 Sitting suspended from 5.45 to 8 p.m. 

-Before the suspension of the sitting I had been trying to recall some of the circumstances in which the Australian Labor Party in government has found itself in the period of almost 3 years that we have been in office. We were elected to office at a time when there was a fairly high level of economic buoyancy throughout the world. We were elected to office after 23 years of conservative government in which this country had fallen well behind comparable countries in the fields of social welfare and education. Of course, these were not the only fields in which changes were needed. Dramatic changes were also needed in our foreign policy, which is not relevant to the Budget but which I think is indicative of the attitudes which had been pursued by our predecessors, which had led us into the disaster in Vietnam and which had caused this country to pursue the most asinine policies with regard to the recognition of China and other countries which play a major role in world affairs and without whose cooperation and without talking to whom it is impossible for Australia to play any constructive role in world peace. 

 -As Senator Wriedt reminds me, China is now a major market for our wheat, something which is of direct bearing to the economic situation of this country. If it had not been for the actions of this Government in establishing relations with China, it is certainly beyond question that we would not have the highly satisfactory and profitable trade relations with China which have been built up through the good relations which this Government has been able to establish with China. Since it has been in office the Government has endeavoured to raise the standard of living of all the Australian people. In doing so we have freely acknowledged that a very high proportion of the total Budget of this country has been spent in the public sectorand not only in the public sector, but in the nonproductive, unprofitable parts of the public sector, those parts of the public sector which consist solely of payments out without anything coming in. We have set about trying to remedy that. We are a democratic socialist Party. We follow the same policies as do other member parties of the Socialist International, and we make no apology for the fact that we - 
I am glad that  Senator Marriott  asked me what those countries are. The countries which have governments provided by democratic socialist parties are Britain, West Germany, Austria, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Finland, the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, Malta, New Zealand, Singapore and three of the Canadian Provinces. Those are some to go on with. There are members of the coalition in Switzerland and of the coalition in Italy. There are some others, but as I do not think  Senator Marriott  would be very familiar with them I will not bother him at the moment by mentioning them. We follow the same policies as do the governments in those countries. We believe that there should be an increase in the governmental role within the public sector. For that reason we intend to pursue our policy of establishing an Australian Government Insurance Corporation. We believe that one of the major contributions which was made by the Government which before this Government was the most progressive in the history of this country- the Fisher Labor Government of 1910 to 1913- was the establishment of the Commonwealth Bank. That Government established certain great precedents which it has taken all these years for us to get into a position to follow. One of the great precedents which that Government established was the foundation of the Commonwealth Bank, something which no tory government, however moth-eaten, would be prepared in any way to mishandle. 
We believe that the same would apply to the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Corporation. For that reason we look forward to an increasing, active, participatory role by the Australian Government through the Australian Government Insurance Corporation and through such bodies as the Australian Industry Development Corporation in the life of this country. But at the same time we acknowledge that there has been an unduly high rate of expenditure in the non-profitable areas of the public sector, that there has been a disproportionately high amount of the revenue of this country spent in fields which are essential but which at the same time are not such fields that one ought to be spending in them amounts of money which will lead in other respects to damage being caused to the economy. I refer to fields such as social welfare and education. We have to put the brake on. We have not cut back on the actual expenditure in those fields. We have had to cut back on the expectations of people. We have done that and it has been a very hard course which we have had to follow. I can assure honourable senators that if they had had the experiences that I have had during the last few weeks of going around and talking to people - 
-And during the lunch hour, yes, talking to people, and I will come to that later. I would like to see  Mr Street  or any of the other so-called spokesmen on labour matters from the Opposition being prepared to face the same sort of audience that  Senator James  McClelland and I faced this afternoon and say to that audience the same sort of things as we said. We have had to face people. I have had to face people and tell them that the expectations which they had will not be fulfilled because we have found it essential to cut back on spending in the public sector because expenditure in the public sector has been a major contributory factor in inflation, and we freely acknowledge this. We do not say that in the long term this cut-back in expenditure in the public sector will continue, but we do say that in the short term we intend to cut back on public spending. 
It is no use members of the Opposition- I have heard them do this- being critical of cuts or alleged cuts in public spending and at the same time saying that what is wrong with Australia is that there is too high an amount of the gross national product of the country going into this same public sector about which they have complained during the last couple of years. Along with the problem of the growth of the public sector we have been faced with the fact that the increase in wages has been disproportionate to the rate of development of the economy and that the increase in wages and incomes which has taken place throughout Australia has added to inflation. We have taken what steps we can to ensure that there will be indexation of wages and that at least for the time being- we are not arguing that this will bring about perfect justice- wages will be tied to the consumer price index. We will have to appeal to our own supporters in the same way as the leader of our fraternal party in West Germany, Helmut 
Schmidt, and before him, Willie Brandt, had to appeal to the West German workers to restrain their demands, to restrain their requests, which in any other situation could be regarded as per.fectly legitimate, in order that the whole economy does not collapse and that all of those things which we have built up after so many years of struggle will not be washed away. 
I notice that  Senator Webster  seems to think that there is something to be laughed at in this, but I can well remember the opposition of  Senator Webster,  along with his colleagues in his Party, the name of which escapes me for the moment- it changes as frequently as the Party's attitude to the appointment of senators to fill casual vacancies- and in the Liberal Party when this Government proposed that power should be given to the Parliament of the Commonwealth to legislate on prices and incomes. This was defeated because of the opposition of the Liberal and Country Parties. It is an almost impossible situation for any national government to be in, to have no power to legislate over prices and incomes. Despite the fact that this power was denied to us by the concerted action of endemic conservatism and the deliberate irresponsibility of the Liberal and Country Parties, we have still had to take steps which are very unpalatable to us indeed. My friend  Mr Bert  James, the honourable member for Hunter who represents coal miners, the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland)  and I had a singularly disagreeable experience today in speaking to representatives of the Miners Federation and other mining unions- unions which have given a lot of loyalty to this Government and to this Partyand telling them that we cannot at this stage do anything but support indexation of wages and incomes. I had the disagreeable responsibility of telling them that those of them who are deemed to be on strike will not be eligible to receive unemployment benefits during the period that they are on strike. I can assure any Liberal senator that it may be easy for a Liberal to say that sort of thing to a group of workers and members of a trade union but it is not easy for any member of the Labor Party to say it. It is not very easy to go to the people - 
It is not very easy because the people who belong to the Miners Federation are amongst the people who put this Government into office and were prepared to stand up and be counted during the Vietnam war and many great struggles. When  Senator Greenwood  was conscripting young men to go off and be killed the Miners Federation was standing against those policies. I do not feel happy about having to go to the Miners Federation and say to it - 
I am not apologising to anybody. I have seen the Miners Federation and I have told the Miners Federation that if its members are on strike they will not be receiving the unemployment benefit. I am saying that this is an example of the seriousness with which the Government approaches the whole question of inflation and that we have to face its problems by cutting back on expenditure in the public sector and, at least in the short run, by facing up to the question of excessive wage demands. 
-I do not think that the faculty which  Senator Baume  is lacking is hearing. What we have done is something which we find most unpalatable but something which is essential. At the same time that we have done it, nonetheless the percentage of the Budget of this country which is expended on social welfare has radically increased. During the time in which this Government has been in office it has established Medibank, which is something that is going to be as permanent in this country as a similar system has become permanent under both Liberal and Conservative governments in Canada. We have established the Australian Assistance Plan to see that the people of the country can participate in the management of the country. We intend to pursue the same objectives of bringing about the participation of the Australian people whatever the result may be of any action taken by the Tory Government in Victoria to defeat the legislation in the High Court. We intend to pursue those objectives. 
-We do not intend to pursue the objectives illegally, but we do intend to pursue them. 
-Yes, we have been in office for 3 years and we will be there for many more years, too. We will be there for many more years indeed.  Mr President,  the allegations that have been made against this Government are allegations that we have attempted to do too much and that we have attempted to do too much too quickly. It may well be that in some instances we have attempted to do too much too quickly, but we have attempted to do things that are of benefit to the great mass of the Australian people. We have not attempted to curry favour with little old ladies in white tennis shoes by conscripting young men to be sent off to be killed in Vietnam. We have not sent troops to Timor, as honourable senators opposite would be doing if they were in office at the present time. Despite the fact that there may have been some setbackswe agree that there have been- we believe that we do have a command of the economic situation at the present time and that with the co-operation of the trade union movement and the Labor movement generally we will be able to restore - 
I should have thought that  Senator Jessop  would be out selling insurance. Every time I see him on television he is marching along with the life underwriters. It is very pleasing that he has been able to find some time to get along here tonight. Many people who have tried to accomplish great things in the past have been subjected to the same sort of calumny as this Government has been subjected to. We intend to proceed along the course that has been charted by the Australian Labor Party for nearly 90 years. I do not generally quote South African newspapers, but if I may digress onto a subject that would not normally attract  Senator Webster's  attention, I would like to quote briefly from something that appeared in a Nationalist newspaper in Cape Town called  Die Burger.  The article refers to the one-hundredth anniversary of the establishment of Afrikaans as a language in South Africa and talks about the people who set about establishing Afrikaans as a language. It reads: 
In the circumstances of a century ago, these people were wild men' and the established order of those days came violently into conflict with them, as it does time after time, and will continue to do, against what is regarded as irresponsible and dangerous. 
There is much to be said for such resistance. It is good that revolutionary ideas should be regularly subjected to a strict test to prove their validity and viability. This ensures that half-baked ideas do not easily take root. But the events of the past century also teach us that resistance can sometimes be taken too far. 
One can scarcely find anybody who is more conservative than a South African Nationalist. What is being said there applies completely to the Australian position at the present time. We are being opposed by people who would want to continue this Government in the state of CocaColanisation which we found when we came into office. That is something which we have tried to remedy by bringing about Australian ownership of Australian industry and by seeing that the people of this country are receiving adequate social welfare and adequate education. We are not going to be deterred by any momentary setbacks. We believe that they can be handled with the co-operation of the trade union movement because we believe that the trade union movement, when the case is explained to it, is loyal to this Party and to this Government. We repudiate an Opposition which stands here not with a policy but merely with an attitude of denigration and a return to the old days when  Senator Greenwood  had as his guiding political principle that what was good enough for Grandma is good enough for him. Our principle is for the establishment of a new social order in Australia. We have taken dramatic steps in that direction in the time in which we have been in office and we shall continue to do so. 
I have had the opportunity to talk about this matter with  Senator Guilfoyle  and it does seem that there is some ambiguity about the regulation as it is presently worded. Certainly the intention of the regulation was to carry out the principles of Medibank and not to go beyond that. But it does seem that, at least in the minds of some of those who have read it, there is some ambiguity and that it would go beyond this. This was not the Government's intention, nor would the Government have carried out the regulation to bring about those consequences outside the intentions of Medibank to which  Senator Guilfoyle  has referred. In the circumstances, the Government does not propose to vote against the proposition that the regulation be disallowed. 
My own view is that it is more desirable to have matters dealt with by legislation than by regulation but it may be that in view of the problems that could arise in the short term it will be necessary to handle this matter, at least in the short term, by regulation rather than by legislation in case there is too long a gap. I am not sure whether this would be the case or not but I shall inquire into the matter. In any event, I think it is appropriate that a regulation which does have ambiguity and, I think, even the possibility of its being found invalid in the event of its being challenged, should be disallowed." The Government will not oppose the motion which has been moved by  Senator Guilfoyle. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I have seen reports which have appeared in a number of newspapers saying that I intend to shelve this report. That is certainly not an accurate report of my statement. An accurate report of it appeared in the  Age,  in an article by Miss Michelle Grattan. As I think the matter is of some importance, I shall read briefly from the article. I think it is what I said. The article states: 
The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Wheeldon)  said yesterday he was opposed to the Government launching major new initiatives in social welfare until it was clearly beating inflation. 

 Senator Wheeldon said he was sure the rest of the Government held this view, 'sad as it is'. 
For the next one- or even two- years defeating inflation was the Government's most important problem. 
If we don't defeat inflation, we are only wasting time talking about other social welfare programs', he said . . . 
Although  Senator Wheeldon  said the Government would consider the report immediately, he made it clear that additional expenditure was unlikely in the near future. 
That is the position by which I stand. It is an unfortunate position to have to take, but it is the position of the Government. I take it that the Opposition will not be claiming that more money ought to be spent on social welfare. 
The report is a most valuable one. It deals with care of aged persons in their own homes and with the avoidance of placing aged persons in institutions- something which I think anyone who is interested in the welfare of aged people would think highly desirable. Among the proposals contained in the report are suggestions as to how the existing finances and the existing facilities could be much better used without any increase in expenditure. If this can be done, certainly it ought to be done. I have asked the Department of Social Security to examine the report immediately. It is doing so. If there are means which do not involve substantial additional expenditure to accomplish at least some of the goals set out in this report, I shall see that they are adopted as soon as possible. There is no intention whatever of shelving this report. We regard it as an important report and something on which we intend to act as soon as we are in an economic position to act. 
-There have been some instances of the sort of thing to which  Senator Walsh  is referring. In particular, one fund, the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia, has been advertising in the Australian Capital Territory in a number of ways that people should contribute to tables with benefits of up to $50 a day if they wish to have their own doctor while in hospital. Generally, people who would expect to be in any of the public hospitals in the Australian Capital Territory, which cover the great majority of beds in the Territory, and who would have to go to hospital in New South Wales only in an emergency situation or when they were referred by an Australian Capital Territory hospital for some medical reason, need not insure at all. If they wish to have some private insurance they would certainly be able to get cover for rates of $20 or $30 a day, which would be completely adequate. 
In regard to the Medical Benefits Fund, which was the particular offender, a Press statement was issued contradicting the claims that had been made by that Fund, and the publicity material the Fund distributed was referred to the Attorney-General's Department for consideration under the Trade Practices Act. Those actions had the effect that the Fund has ceased the advertising which I think could be described fairly as misleading. Certainly any future publicity by the MBF, or by any other Fund which cares to do it, should make clear to those people to whom it is directing its advertisements the options that are open to them within the Australian Capital Territory in obtaining the benefits of the health insurance legislation. 
-Despite the hyperbole in which he sometimes indulges,  Senator Marriott  is a very courteous person and he did inform me that he was going to ask this question. The journal from which he quoted was in fact quoting from something which was said by some unspecified person on the ABC radio program PM, to which I am sure the honourable senator is addicted, along with  Lateline  and other programs to which I am sure he listens regularly. The report may well be correct; I do not know. I have not seen that particular report, although I have seen recently statements made by the Canadian Minister for Health, Monsieur Lalonde, in which he has said, possibly in another context, how well the health benefit system in that country is working. I think there is something that should be remembered about Canada; that is, that at least in this respect the Federal position has been adopted much more thoroughly than it has in this country. As I understand it, the Canadian national health system to a very large extent is a co-ordination of a number of provincial health systems. In fact, the Labour Government in Saskatchewan introduced a national health scheme quite some years ago, I think before the Federal Government in Canada had moved to any great extent on the matter. 
Although under Medibank the actual relationship between patient and doctor is similar to the scheme which applies in Canada, the funding and financing arrangements are quite different in that the relationship between the Australian 
Government and the States in the field of medical insurance is quite different from the relationship which exists between the national government and the provincial governments in Canada. I do not know what are the particular problems that the Canadian system is having, although Canada, like all Western countries, is suffering from very severe inflation. I dare say that that is one of the obvious things which would be affecting the price of health services, as it is affecting the price of everything else. I will try to get some information on the current position in Canada and I will see that  Senator Marriott  gets it. At the same time, I think it would be unwise to draw too many conclusions about that aspect of the Canadian experience, which I think is based on quite different financing principles than those on which the Australian system is based. 
Pursuant to section 16 of the Social Welfare Commission Act 1973 I present the annual report of the Social Welfare Commission. This report is the first by the Commission since its members were appointed in April 1974 and covers the period from appointment up to 30 June 1 975. 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Guilfoyle)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Government Election Policy Speech made no specific reference to blind people as such. 
No blind pensioners lost their entitlement under the Pensioner Medical Service prior to replacement of that service by Medibank on 1 July 1975. 
to (5) Fringe benefits such as travel concessions, rebates of council rates and free dental treatment are primarily provided to eligible pensioners at the discretion of the State Governments or local government authorities. I am therefore unable to say whether these concessions have, at any time, been denied to blind pensioners. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) There arc 29 second division officers employed in the Department of Social Security. 
Of these officers 
five have held their present position for less than one year; 
fourteen have held their position for one to two years; 
ten have held their position for more than two years. 
I do recall having answered such a question. The answer which 1 gave referred to the maximum rate of total and permanent incapacity pension which was available to those TPI veterans who were not in receipt of any other income and did not have sufficient property to disqualify them. The eligibility for war widows is of a similar kind to that which applies to the TPI recipient. A war widow under 70 years of age who satisfies the other qualifications will receive a total pension of $74.15 a week which is the equivalent in taxable income of $84.20 a week or $4,378 a year. A war widow over the age of 70 receives a total pension of $89.50 a week, which is the equivalent of a taxable income of $105.40 a week or an annual income of$5,481. 
I would not have thought there was any further information which I could give and which would be helpful, beyond the information that I gave recently. Despite what some newspapers may have reported- not all newspapers; as I said at the time the  Age  reported me correctly- I did not say that no action was going to be taken on this matter. What I have said is that at this stage the Government does not intend to embark on any new initiatives in the field of social welfare which would cost substantial sums of money. That is the position which the Government adopts. If it is not the position of the Opposition, I wish that it would say so, so that it can tell us what sort of a deficit it thinks we ought to have. 
What I have said is that my Department is studying the report of the Social Welfare Commission's committee, which I have said is a very important report dealing with very important matters. A number of the propositions which are put forward within the committee's report would seem to show that there would not be any additional expenditure involved- in fact, there could well be a saving of money- if one were to direct some of the attention which is now given to institutional care to domiciliary care. These matters are being studied. In addition, a committee which has been established by Cabinet is studying all the priorities within the field of minimum income which has, of course, at least some relationship to the care of the aged. Certainly the role of voluntary bodies is important in this matter. We would be unable to function if voluntary bodies were not giving the assistance which they give at present. I do not believe that any government has given more financial assistance to voluntary agencies than this Government has given. 
I get regular figures provided to me by the Department of Repatriation and Compensation. I am pleased to be able to say that the compensation claims are being dealt with rapidly and that the payments are being made rapidly. As at 29 August last, a total of some $13,250,000 had been paid out for a total of more than 7500 claims for death and injury and for loss of and damage to property. A total of almost 5000 claims are still under consideration, but, as can be seen from those figures, the bulk of the claims have already been dealt with in very few months. 
-Yes, I did see the report. As a matter of fact, not only did I see it but I obtained a transcript of the interview. I was most disappointed, because I met  Mr Renton  only the other evening. He was introduced to me by  Senator Melzer,  who apparently is an old friend of his, and we had quite an enjoyable chat. I was upset that he should adopt this attitude. One of the things I did notice in the course of his interview was what he said when asked whether he would be prepared to state publicly how much his campaign had cost him and his organisation. He said: 'The amount is not a very large sum, but I would not want to bandy any particular figure about. I think it would only attract unnecessary criticism. ' It seemed to me a little puzzling, if it were such a small amount, that it would attract any unnecessary criticism. If it is such a small amount, I do not think  Mr Renton  should attract all this criticism in respect of the small amount which he apparently says he has spent. I intend to have an assessment made of the total amount that we can obtain evidence of. I think this should be made public. I think that the people who purchase insurance policies ought to know how their money is being spent, and I will do my best to see that they find out how their money is being spent. 
I am rather embarrassed by this question because I possess an imitation cigarette myself. I did not realise that children were taking to them. I am not sure to what extent children would be addicted to them. 
1 suppose that lollies can be damaging too. I have seen lollies take a number of shapes, some even more indecent than that of cigarettes, but I will certainly take the matter up with the Minister for Health. I may say in passing that this is not a subject on which I have terribly strong views, but I can see that  Senator McLaren  does. I will see that this matter is drawn to the attention of the Minister so that he can take whatever action he deems appropriate in all the circumstances. 
-The anomalous position is that some funds are refusing to do what other funds have agreed to do. There is no necessity for them to have these receipts. If any individual wants to obtain a receipt he can get it. The majority of funds have agreed to handle the matter without the difficulty which  Senator Sheil  has mentioned. Certainly this is something which the Health Insurance Commission has to continue to study, but the anomaly to which  Senator Sheil  refers is a result of the deliberate attempts- I put it as strongly as that- by some of the so-called voluntary funds to sabotage Medibank. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the Annual Report of the Director-General of Health for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Department of Repatriation and Compensation has, at present, no specific procedures for evaluating its rehabilitation services. 
Rehabilitation is seen as part of the total treatment pattern. lt is a continuing process, the quality of which is controlled by a team, skilled in assessing the individual need of the patient. Although the Department believes effectiveness can only be determined in relation to the degree of independence, socially, medically and financially, which the patient achieves, it is looking at methods by which it can develop research into, and evaluation of, rehabilitation procedures. 
Taking into consideration the median age of the veteran, which is 56 years, the great weight of the Repatriation rehabilitation effort is directed towards social and medical aspects rather than the vocational aspects of rehabilitation. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
I think that with the large number of immigrants in Australia, many of whom speak only a limited amount of English, it is necessary that there should be some sort of interpreter service for them, particularly when they are asking questions which to them can be very complicated and when they are not aware of the laws relating to social security in Australia and what their entitlements are. The first telephone interpreter services were opened in Sydney and in Melbourne in February 1973 and a further service was started in Perth in March 1974. From the very start a great deal of use was made of this service and it has steadily increased. Up until 31 July 1975 the 3 services between them had dealt with 130 000 calls. The average number of calls answered monthly by each of these 3 services which have already been established has been: Sydney, 1893; Melbourne, 2261; Perth, 653. The major languages which are used by people who try to make use of this service are Greek, Italian, Spanish, SerboCroatian and Turkish. The service used to be known as the emergency telephone interpreter service but it has now been extended into a general information and referral service in some 50 languages and dialects. Based on the experience which we have had in Sydney, Melbourne and Perth, it is hoped that the service can be extended, at least to the other State capitals. Although this program was deferred for a time I am now very pleased to be able to say that we have been able to allocate sufficient funds to establish the service in Brisbane and Adelaide. Staff is at present being recruited to handle this service in those 2 cities. 
I am aware that there is hardship in this area. I am aware that there is hardship in a great many areas. I do not think the social welfare which is provided in this country, not only in this regard but also in a great many other regards, is anything like what ought to be provided in a country as rich as Australia. I think  Senator Guilfoyle  knows why we pegged this figure. We pegged it because we have been cutting back on public spending to the best of our ability and this is unfortunately one of the areas which have been affected. Particular hardships are constantly being reviewed by me and by officers of both the departments which I administer. If  Senator Guilfoyle  can provide me with some specific instances which she thinks should warrant my personal ministerial intervention, I will so intervene. All I can undertake to do in the meantime is to tell her that I am aware of the hardship, that I am watching what is happening in this area, as is my Department, and that as soon as we possibly can we will do something to improve the situation. 
I acknowledge that I prepared myself expecting a question from somebody such as yourself, senator. Unfortunately, you do not seem to have been very curious about a survey which is favourable to the ALAO. One-third of those polled see themselves as actually or potentially seeking its help. That confirms the expert advice which the Government obtained from the Australian Legal Aid Review Committee and the Commissioner on Law and Poverty. Currently the office is handling inquiries at the rate of 1 4 000 per month and that figure is still growing. As to the last part of the honourable senator's question, the report of the Australian Nationwide Opinion Poll will be made available to honourable senators immediately following the recess. 
-Yes,  Mr President,  I have in fact noticed that these gentlemen are now receiving salaries of $50,000 a year. I have noticed also that those newspapers which, whenever a rise in parliamentary salaries takes place, refer to a pay grab have not referred to any pay grab by these gentlemen; nor, indeed, when they refer to a pay grab by coal miners or members of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union have they ever felt prompted to remind their readers of the salaries which are being received by these individuals in hospital or medical benefits funds. The funds are not obliged under the National Health Act to give me that information but I think that this is a matter of public interest and I intend to write to the funds and ask them for details of the salaries and allowances which their executives receive and of any recent changes in the salaries and allowances. 
I think these are matters that ought to be known publicly. Our salaries are known publicly and I think these executives' salaries ought to be known publicly as well. They are functioning under the National Health Act and I believe that the people are entitled to know what they are getting when they pay their money. I have noted also how the officials of these funds have said that they have a very keen sense of public responsibility. I am sure that with such a keen sense of public responsibility they will feel a responsibility to the public to make this information available. 
-The Minister for Health recently gave me some information relating to efforts to eradicate trachoma which, as  Senator Keeffe  has said, is a disastrous disease. It is predominantly found in the arid areas of Australia. Its incidence is much higher amongst Aborigines than it is amongst white Australians. The Department of Health did draw attention to the problem of trachoma in a statement which it made to the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs. At that time discussions were already in progress between the Department of Health and the College of Ophthalmologists, the purpose of which was to develop some proposal aimed at minimising the effects of this disease. I understand that only yesterday discussions were held with a representative of the College of Ophthalmologists for this purpose. 
Any proposal that the Australian Government decides on in this matter can be developed only in consultation with the State health authorities. We hope that constructive suggestions on this matter can be put to the States in the near future. In the meantime, as far as the development of means for the eradication of the effects of trachoma is concerned, it is hoped to involve as many Aboriginal organisations as possible, including the National Aboriginal Congress and the Central Australian Aboriginal Congress, to ensure that as far as possible there is a 100 per cent coverage of all the people who are concerned. We feel that this is something in which the Aboriginal organisations themselves not only could but should play a role as this is a disease which primarily affects their people- at least, much more than it does any other section of the Australian people. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Yes, unless there is a demand which cannot be met through the issue of human tetanus immunoglobulin. However, such circumstances are not expected to arise. 
No. It may still be purchased until current stock is exhausted. 
See ( 1 ). Due to the limitations of raw material for production of human tetanus immunoglobulin, it is considered that the facility to produce equine tetanus antitoxin should be maintained and a reserve carried to meet any abnormal demand in the future. However, with the achievement of adequate active immunization cover of the community the need for human tetanus immunoglobulin should gradually decrease. 
I have received innumerable communications from the Australian Council of Social Service. Whether that matter was amongst those to which it referred I cannot recollect at the moment. I do see members of the Council frequently; no doubt I shall be seeing them again in the near future. I do not know that I can give any more clarification to the matter than I have already given with regard to the report on care for the aged. A report which I think is very good has been presented. I have announced and I made it clear- and it is in line with Government policy- that there will not be substantial expenditure on new initiatives in this field or in any other field until such time as we can say that we have made some effective impact on inflation in this country. There are, within the report, suggestions as to how there could be improvements in the existing means of caring for the aged, that is, by providing domiciliary rather than institutional care. These matters are at present being examined by my Department. When we are able to make some determinations as to what parts of the report we will be able to implement and when we will be able to implement them, I shall make an announcement. 
-This almost sounds like a classical example of that thesis and antithesis to which Marx and Hegel and others used to refer. It is a fact that there is an anti-smoking education campaign being conducted by the Government which is aimed at discouraging adults and younger people from smoking. We are, at the same time, providing money to assist the tobacco farming community to produce a crop which is acceptable to the manufacturers of cigarettes and other tobacco products. This is an unusual situation in which we find ourselves. I think that we are probably not the only government in the world which finds itself in this position. The money distributed from the tobacco industry trust account is used for research and technical advice services but not the promotion of the consumption of tobacco. The main motivation is to see that the industry in which primarily the tobacco farmers are smallholders remains a viable industry for the smallholders. There is no authority under the Tobacco Industry Act of 1955, which was passed by the previous GovernmentI understand from  Senator Greenwood  that he has given up smoking cigarettes- to authorise promotional expenditure under the tobacco industry trust account. The purpose of this is also to see that the proportion of Australian leaf is maintained. So, let me sum up the existing position of the Government: On the one hand we are spending money to see that people do not smoke and on the other hand we are spending money to see that if people do smoke they will be smoking high quality Australian tobacco produced by yeoman tobacco farmers. 
-As a fellow IrishAustralian I am delighted to be able to answer  Senator Keeffe  's question by saying that he is right. It has been announced that the Hibernian Medical and Hospital Benefits Fund has agreed to accept the Medibank butts as evidence of the fees which have been incurred and will not require the payment of the gap moneys before presenting the accounts to Medibank. In Queensland the Manchester Unity and the Protestant Alliance Friendly Societies already had accepted the Medibank documents. I do not think  Senator Keeffe  would have been a member of either of those organisations, and neither would I. It does mean that the only organisation in Queensland which is now holding out is the Medical Benefits Fund, the Queensland branch of the New South Wales organisation of the same name. I think the Hibernian Fund is going to make some approaches to me for some amendment to the form of the butt to require some additional information. However, it has accepted the principle. This is further evidence of the fact that despite the opposition of intractable opponents of Medibank it is winning acceptance and every day we find that more people and more organisations have come to the conclusion that national health insurance is here and here to stay. 

 - Senator Mulvihill has been good enough to give me a case history of a person who was suffering some difficulties in this regard. I have had some inquiries made by the Department of Social Security and we are not aware of all of the provisions under which United States pensions may be paid to United States citizens or former residents overseas. But it does seem that the United States Government will pay old age pensions in certain circumstances where there are reciprocal arrangements with other countries. Some 3 years ago the previous Australian Government invited the United States Government to enter into an agreement for reciprocal portability of pensions. However, up to the time of the change of government in 1972 our predecessors had received no response from the United States Government. 
-That may be true. I forbear to comment on the wisdom or otherwise of its judgment. In any case, after this Government was elected it was decided that it was not necessary for us to pursue this matter because Australian pensions generally became portable from May 1973. We are paying them. I suppose that there is not much we can do to make other countries pay them to their citizens. If  Senator Mulvihill  would like to take up with me the individual case to which he has referred or other cases if he has knowledge of any other cases, I shall see that the facilities of the Department of Social Security are made available to him to give assistance to any distressed Americans who have come to this country. 
I, rather than the Minister for Health, am responsible for this matter as Minister for Social Security. Certainly my Department, the Health Insurance Commission and I are trying to economise as far as we can on postage and, indeed, on anything else. An indication of that was the cessation of the practice of posting receipts back to beneficiaries, unless they sent a stamped addressed envelope. I have to confess that I am not completely familiar with the procedure which  Senator Bessell  has referred to me. In the way in which he describes it, it certainly sounds unnecessarily cumbersome. I shall cause some inquiries to be made into the matter. I undertake to let the honourable senator have an answer as early as possible as to the precise procedures and as to what economies can be made in them. 
-A similar question was asked not so long ago by  Senator Bessell.  I think he was referring specifically to farmers on King Island. As I think I mentioned at the time, representations had been made to me by an Australian Labor Party member of the New South Wales Parliament. We do have a problem in that a number of farmers are not making an adequate income. In fact, there are some farmers of whom it could be fairly said that they are not making any income at all, particularly in the beef industry in certain areas. This is not only on King Island; it is in northern New South Wales and throughout Australia as far as beef growers are concerned. There are other locally depressed areas, some of which have been depressed for many years. 
As I said at the time, a real problem is involved in this matter because it seems that if one were to pay unemployment benefit to farmers who are in possession of quite substantial assets- I do not mean farmers who have actually left their farms because they cannot carry on; they are in a quite different situation as they clearly are unemployed- this would be a departure from the normal procedures in the payment of unemployment benefit. It could be suggested that we were engaging in the payment of some sort of an agricultural subsidy in an industry which may be economic but which it may not be in the best interests of Australia as a whole to maintain. It would open something of a Pandora's box, I would think, with regard to people in all sorts of other occupations who may well own plant, equipment or buildings. People who own a shop or a factory which has become unprofitable and from which they are making no income possibly also could obtain some sort of unemployment benefit on this basis. I have written to the Minister for Agriculture, the Minister for Labor and Immigration, and the Special Minister of State as Minister responsible for the Industries Assistance Commission, with a proposal that the four of us or our officers should set up a joint committee to study the problem of farmers who are in this situation. There is no doubt that many of them have a desperate problem and that something ought to be done. Whether the correct way to do it is by the payment of social security unemployment benefit to the farmers I think does have some difficulties which would need to be looked at very carefully indeed before a decision were made. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
45. 
(a) 7 
16 
22 
Legal Actions Against the Hospital Employees Federation  (Question No. 679)  Senator Greenwood  asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the payment of the legal costs incurred by  Mr Brian  McClure and  Mrs K.  Gordon in actions against the Hospital Employees Federation of Australia, Victoria, No. 1 Branch, been the subject of decisions by the AttorneyGeneral that they be paid by the Commonwealth. 
What was each decision. 
) When was each decision made. 
Have any costs incurred by  Mr McClure  and  Mrs Gordon  been paid by the Commonwealth. 
What amount of costs has (a) been paid and (b) been agreed to be paid by the Commonwealth in respect of such actions. 
For the information of honourable senators, I present the interim report on the operation of the defence service homes insurance scheme for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
No. 
No. 
Yes. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
One. 
The position of Journalist Grade Al-Salary $14,815 per annum. 
I did not actually hear them but I was informed of them and I must say that 1 was a little puzzled by them. To use the language that  Senator McAuliffe  has used, I did find it a little difficult to make much sense out of them.  Mr Chipp  said that the Prime Minister and I were pursuing some manic passion about this matter and that this was despite the fact that three distinguished members of the Australian Labor Party had advised us all not to proceed with an Australian Government Insurance Corporation. What he has against those 3 members that he should describe them in that way I do not know, but that is what he said. The short answer to the question is that apparently  Mr Chipp  has confused the National Compensation Bill with the Australian Government Insurance Corporation Bill. 
-Yes, I am. As  Senator Marriott  has said that 1 am not sticking to the truth I seek leave- I will not ask for the withdrawal to which one would be entitled- to incorporate in  Hansard  the transcripts of what I said and what  Mr Chipp  said so that all can judge whether I am sticking to the truth. 
I did see a report in a Sunday newspaper to the effect that there had been an under-estimation made by a number of departments, including the Department of Social Security, of the postage costs which would follow from the recent increase in postal charges. The fact of the matter is that the. estimates for the Budget are prepared by the various departments according to Treasury estimates which are calculated on the known numbers and the current costs. The Department of Social Security Budget allocation for postage is about $7. 5m. As honourable senators would appreciate a huge volume of mail comes from the Department of Social Security. About 58.5 million cheques and letters are despatched during a year. It may well be that there will be some changes resulting from the increased postal charges. There was certainly no under-estimation. If there has been any under-estimating of the total charges these will need to be dealt with in the Additional Estimates which are usually presented during the autumn sittings of Parliament. I assure the Senate that there was no under-estimation of costs by the Department of Social Security or, I would imagine, by any other department. All of these matters are covered by instructions which come from the Department of the Treasury. 
-I am well aware that there have been some substantial cuts in the funds available to the Australian Council of Social Services and the various State councils of social services. This was something which was done by the Government while we were in the process of cutting expenditure on a number of matters on which the Government previously spent very great sums of money. I think it may well be that in retrospect the cuts which were imposed on the Australian Council of Social Services were somewhat too harsh. I am at present in discussion with the Treasurer to see whether the funds which are available to the Australian Council of Social Services and the various State councils may be increased. 
I think I should say that in the situation in which we find ourselves at present where there have been of necessity cuts in public spending, I and the Cabinet had the rather unpalatable task of deciding where the cuts should take place. It seemed to me- and I make no apology for this - that if one did have to make cuts, it was better to make cuts in the provision of funds to advisory bodies, that is those bodies which were going to advise the Government of where expenditure could be made in the future, than in those areas where it was obvious there should be expenditure at the present time. I would rather cut back on the funds that are available to someone who was advising me where I should be spending money than cut back on a blind persons' home or an aged persons' home or whatever else it might be. There has been enough cutting back going on there. I appreciate the difficulties which face these organisations which apparently are dependent upon government financial assistance in order to operate. 
Apparently this has been the case with the Tasmanian Council of Social Services. However, as I said elsewhere this morning, in my capacity as Minister for my other Department, that of Repatriation and Compensation, I also deal with voluntary bodies which look after the welfare of large numbers of people; for example, the Returned Services League of Australia. This League has managed to function in Tasmania and everywhere else as a voluntary organisation without receiving contributions from the Australian Government to maintain its independent existence. With the greatest fairness to the Australian Council of Social Services- I am endeavouring to raise some additional money for that Council- I do think that it is rather a tortuous path that one follows when one says one is a voluntary organisation but wants to be paid by the Government for being a voluntary organisation. 
The RSL is an organisation with which I have disagreed in the past on certain political matters. However, I think that it does offer a very good example to a lot of voluntary organisations in that, despite the fact that it represents a great many very deprived people- a number of its members are now very elderly and are incapacitatedit has been able to maintain its independent existence without receiving grants from the Australian Government. I know that this may be cold comfort to the Australian Council of Social Services but I suggest that as well as asking me for additional money, which I am trying to obtain for it, it might speak to  Mr Keys,  the National Secretary of the RSL, to see how his organisation gets on in maintaining its independent existence without asking the Department of Repatriation and Compensation for any financial assistance. 
-Yes. The  AMA Gazette  is one of those journals which I peruse with more avidity than I would if I did not occupy my present position. I have seen the article to which  Senator Grimes  refers. It did occasion me some distress that a  Dr Lionel  Wilson should be asked by officers of the Health Insurance Commission to forge somebody else's signature. To say the least of it, this seemed to be a rather irregular practice and I caused some inquiries to be made. I discovered as a result of these inquiries that in fact a cheque for the munificent sum of $5.55 was made out to Drs V. M. and R. E. Wilson. It was a 'pay doctor' cheque and was sent to a patient who had received the services of  Dr Lionel  Wilson, who made these rather extravagant charges and who, as it happens by coincidence, is the Treasurer of the Australian Medical Association. This same  Dr Wilson  telephoned Medibank when he received the cheque from his patient, but my officers have been unable to find who it was who took the call from  Dr Wilson. 
Subsequently  Dr Wilson  spoke to a senior officer of the Liverpool processing centre of the Health Insurance Commission on 28 August. The officer informs me that  Dr Wilson  was very irate during this call and demanded that 
Medibank send a courier to his surgery immediately armed with a letter of authority to collect the cheque. A courier was sent around that day in fact, with great promptitude; not 3 weeks later as the  AMA Gazette  claims was the case. A mistake had occurred in the drawing of a cheque which apparently arose because of a coding error in Medibank. To avoid these errors doctors have been asked to include a code on their account forms. However, the Australian Medical Association has advised its members not to assist Medibank and not to include the code numbers on their claim forms. This does make it a little difficult for Medibank to do the sort of things which the members of the Australian Medical Association apparently want it to do. Nonetheless, despite the opposition of the AMA, some 5300 doctors have agreed to co-operate. 
The fact of the matter is that the cheque clearly was intended for  Dr L.  Wilson; that nobody asked him to forge anybody's signature to it; and that, in fact,  Dr Wilson  could have endorsed the cheque in his own name, it would appear, and would have been able to bank it. I can assure  Senator Grimes,  the Senate and the editor of the  AMA Gazette,  whoever he is and if he is interested, that at no stage did anybody suggest that this reputable medical practitioner should forge somebody's name. All he was asked to do was to endorse the cheque, which was intended for him, and then bank it. I am sorry that this terrible distress has been aroused, to the extent of warranting a front page article in this journal which is read by so many sagacious givers of the hippocratic oath throughout Australia. 
I tend not to record indelibly in my memory articles which I read in the  West Australian.  I read the report. It was fairly accurate. I would say that on the whole the Press in Australia is trying to undermine the Labor Government. I believe the Australian Constitution is in many respects a weight around the neck of a Labor government and that it was introduced to preserve the property rights which existed in the 1890s. I do not recollect off-hand which of the delegates were octogenarians but I think if  Senator Chaney  were to refer to any adequate Australian history he would be able to obtain the information for himself. The other question was whether I wish to replace the capitalist system in Australia: The answer is yes. 
Pursuant to section 76a of the National Health Act 1953-1975, 1 present a report on the operations of the registered medical and hospital benefit organisations for the year ended 30 June 1 974. 
I think I said at the time I answered the relevant question this afternoon that I had not heard what  Mr Chipp  had said but that it had been reported to me and I had obtained from the Parliamentary Library a transcript of the broadcasting program  AM,  which I in fact tabled in the Senate this morning. 
It was a transcript of the program which was broadcast by  AM  which is what I said. I am not psychic; I do not know what happens inside the Australian Broadcasting Commission. But the program which was broadcast and which had been reported on to me was to the effect that I had said something about the Australian Government Insurance Corporation Bill and then  Mr Chipp,  on being asked what he thought about that, had said that it had been condemned by three distinguished members of the Australian Labor Party and that it was most extraordinary - 
-Senator Cavanagh said that he was not even on the relevant committee. It is rather surprising that there should be three left. If I may, I wish to refer to the transcript which was provided to me. In referring to the Bill 1 said: 
We believe than an Australian Government Insurance Corporation can be just as beneficial in the field of insurance as the Commonwealth Bank has been in the field of banking. I support it because I believe it's a good Bill and in the interests of the Australian people to have it passed. 
The transcript continues: 
Announcer. 
Well, has this caught the Opposition on the hop. Geoff Duncan speaking to the Shadow Minister for Social Security and Welfare, Don Chipp. 

 Mr Don Chipp: 
A Senate Select Committee of both parties sat for several months and went into it and condemned the Bill as being probably unconstitutional, the cost astronomical, the sickness provision not to be countenanced - 
And various other things followed. It seemed to be fairly clear what it was saying and I, in all good faith, took that to be what had actually occurred. In fact, my secretary subsequently telephoned a producer- I have forgotten what are the correct titles- of  AM  in order to obtain some clarity from him and the person contacted at the Australian Broadcasting Commission said that  Mr Chipp  in fact had been asked about the AGIC. I completely accept the assurance given by  Mr Chipp,  by way of a personal explanation, that there was some confusion. Certainly when 1 was interviewed I was not told at any stage that I was to be involved unwittingly in some sort of debate on the subject with  Mr Chipp  and that he would be commenting on what I said. I had no idea that  Mr Chipp  would be spoken to. I know nothing of the matter other than that I was telephoned by somebody while in Brisbane and asked certain questions about the Australian Government Insurance Corporation Bill. 
I am sorry that  Mr Chipp  felt constrained in the course of his explanation to say that I had engaged in cheap and dishonest propaganda, or whatever the expressions were that he used. I was acting on what had been handed to me and I assumed that the ABC had correctly reported what in fact had taken place.  Mr Chipp  does not need to give an assurance but if he says that he understood that he was being asked about national compensation I believe him. I always have regarded  Mr Chipp  as a person with whom I have very friendly relations. I am sorry that something which occurred within the ABC should cause a situation such as this to arise. I agree that if this is what happened, and it appears to be what did happen, the ABC has engaged in a rather extraordinary practice in any event, whether it was accurate or not, by interviewing a Minister and then not telling him at the same time that it would be asking somebody else for comments on the subject. I find that in itself a little peculiar. I have nothing to add to the subject other than to say that if I have misrepresented  Mr Chipp  in some way it was done unwittingly on my part because I was relying on the transcript given to me and the reports people gave me of what they had heard. When I see  Mr Chipp  I will apologise for my references to him and ask him whether he will withdraw his references to me. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Yes. I have been for some time aware of reported associations between synthetic food colourings and flavours and behavioural disturbances and learning disabilities in adults and children and, in particular, with reports of the work of  Dr B.  F. Feingold reviewed in 'Chemtech' May 1975.  Dr Feingold  attributes a wide range of reactions to both natural and synthetic flavours and colours and states that complete control of symptoms can be effected by a diet which eliminates these. This diet involves the avoidance of nearly all fruits, beverages, drugs and other items, including milk.  His  assertions are not based on investigations carried out using these substances on his patients but by other work concerning the blocking of receptor sites by the acetyl radical of aspirin and various other substances, most of which bear no structural relationship to one another or to the flavours and colours.  His  patients were all children with behavioural problems.  His  therapy was empirical and there were no controls to eliminate even the most obvious possibilities of improvement resulting from increased attention and interest. This work cannot be regarded as based on scientific evidence. 
) The addition of any substance to foods is very strictly controlled in Australia and the Food Additives subcommittee of the National Health and Medical Research Council assesses applications for the use of food additives. If there is a technological need for the use of such an additive then the toxicological status of the substance is very critically examined. Full details of pharmacological and toxicological investigations are submitted according to Council procedure. All additives are subject to continual review so that, if further studies of an additive show demonstrable toxic effects, then Council's approval is withdrawn. It is emphasised that the method for approval of food additives in the U.S.A. differs markedly from that applied in Australia, and the number of food additives approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration is immense compared with the number of approved food additives in Australia. Therefore much of  Dr 
Feingold 's research is not applicable in Australia. In the light of current knowledge approved food additives in use in Australia are safe. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Social Welfare Commission is expected to produce recommendations to the Australian Government on the future shape of the Australian Assistance Plan which is currently in the final year of a three year pilot program. If the Government accepts these recommendations it is expected that legislation will be introduced in the 1976 Autumn Session of Parliament. 
Since 1973, 37 Regional Councils for Social Development have been established. A further 27 organisations are currently working towards establishment as Regional Councils. 
The numbers of Councils which received funds are: 
One of these Councils received funds to be forwarded to welfare organisations for capitation projects. 
b ) Most of the funds received by these Councils were for capitation projects. 
Regional Councils may be allocated funds of up to- 
$12,000 per annum for the employment of a Community Development Officer. The number of Community Development Officers who may be employed in a region under the Australian Assistance Plan is limited to the number of local government areas in that region. 
$40,000 per annum for administrative expenses. 
$2 per annum per head of population as at 30 June 1971 for capitation projects. Capitation funds are passed through Regional Councils to local welfare organisations. 
$2,000 initiating grant to enable organisations to work towards the establishment of a Regional Council. 
The total amount spent under the Australian Assist ance Plan in each of the years mentioned was- 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Yes. The terms of reference laid down by the previous Government, when it authorised the Independent Enquiry into the Repatriation system under  Mr Justice  Toose in October 1971, did not specify any date by which the enquiry was to be completed and a report furnished to the Government. The present Government has not altered the terms of reference in that respect. Salaries and allowances to  Mr Justice  Toose and his staff will continue until the enquiry is complete and are provided for in Division 525, subdivision 5, item 07 of the Departmental estimates for appropriation purposes. 
Yes. See answer to ( 1 ) and (2) above. 
Rental: October 1971-June 1973- $9,968 p.a.; June 1973-August 1975-$ 18,500 p.a.; Current rental-$8, 1 90 p.a. 
(a)  Mr Justice  Toose has been supported by:  Mr B.  J. F. Wright, Q.C. (as required) 
Judge 's Associate Tipstaff 
Secretary- Class 9 Clerk Assistant Secretary- Class 6 Clerk Steno-Secretary (Grade I). 
Consultants have been employed at the Judge's discretion and Departmental staff have been made available full-time at varying times. 
Departmental staff comprised: 
First Assistant Commissioner Level 3-( 1 ) Assistant Commissioner Level l-( 1 ) Clerk Class 10-(1) Clerk Class 9-(l) Clerk Class 8-(2) Clerk Class 6-(l) Clerk Class 2/3-(l) Steno-secretary (Grade I) 
Other Departmental staff provided assistance on a part-time basis as needs arose for research, report and administrative assistance. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) Five people are employed in the Department of Social Security, and seven people in the Health Insurance Commission in journalist positions. In addition, three people are employed in the Department of Social Security in managerial and or clerical positions associated with informatin work and whose duties include public relations and journalistic type activities. There is one such person employed in the Health Insurance Commission and one in the Social Welfare Commission. 

Social Security 1 Director, Public Relations- $17,676 2 Assistant Director, Public Relations- $ 16,537 2 Journalist Grade A I -$ 1 5,397 2 Journalist Grade A I -$ 1 4,8 1 5 1 Journalist Grade A-$12,565 
Health Insurance Commission 1 Director, Public Relations-$ 17,676 1 Journalist Grade A-$ 15,397 4 Journalist Grade A-$ 1 2,565 2 Journalist Grade B-$ 10,647 
Social Welfare Commission l Clerk-$ 15.224 
Negotiations have been taking place, as I think is known by all honourable senators. I am certainly concerned not only about the carnage but also about any road accidents that take place in that area. I will try to get a detailed reply for  Senator Mulvihill  on the precise state of affairs at this time. I know of his interest in this matter and I will let him have a reply as soon as possible. 
-They were in part telling the truth. There are considerable sums of money available to insurance companies which they invest. There is no doubt that when they invest this money it creates various activities and does create employment for a number of people. The problem, however- and it was not dealt with in any advertisements that I have seen which have been inserted by the insurance companies when using their policy-holders' funds to attack this Government- has been the manner in which they have invested their money. One of the strongest criticisms that can be made of the insurance offices is that they have not been putting the vast sums available to them and at their command to the most useful purposes for the Australian people. In fact only recently - 
Speaking to the point of order, I was endeavouring not to debate the matter but to answer a question asked by  Senator Mcintosh  in all earnestness. He is seeking an explanation of a situation and I am trying to give it to him. One of the reasons I tried to give the answer in some detail was the fear that  Senator Greenwood  would ask a supplementary question, which is a habit of his and which could have prolonged the matter to a very great length. In fact I have been trying to curtail question time by giving brief, succinct answers covering all the problems which have aroused the interest of the questioner. 1 think it would be quite unfair not to enable me to give this information which  Senator Mcintosh  is seeking. 
I have seen the statement by the Victorian Branch of the Australian Institute of Welfare Officers. I think that one of the things one finds in this field is that there are a number of people, some of whom I think could be described as old welfare hands, who find it to their advantage to complain to various organisations of this kind. By doing so they are able to achieve some sort of immediate payment from the organisations to which they complain as the organisations find it difficult to obtain verification of any allegations by an allegedly aggrieved applicant for social welfare benefits because of the policy of confidentiality which is followed by the Department of Social Security in not disclosing to third parties information concerning the status of people's claims. 
However, what has been said by the Institute of Welfare Officers, which I am sure was said in good faith, really does not in any way accurately reflect the record of the Department of Social Security in the payment of unemployment benefits. About 70 per cent of all claims for unemployment benefits are dealt with within ten to eleven days, which I believe is remarkably rapid when one is dealing with a system in which approximately one million payments are made by the Department every week for various types of benefits. This is particularly the case when 1 70 000-odd people at present are receiving the unemployment benefit. In recent periods all sorts of steps have been taken to try to speed up the payments of the unemployment benefits, and I think they have been successful. I do not believe one could legitimately complain that there are any undue delays. 
My view- I think it is the view of the Governmentis that if we are to err at all we ought to err on the side of generosity rather than otherwise. I would rather see somebody who was not entitled to the unemployment benefit receiving it for a short period until such time as one was able to check on it rather than a position in which someone who was entitled to the unemployment benefit was not getting it for a long time because of detailed inquiries which were being maintained. As far as the economies of running such a service are concerned, it can often be the case that the money which is saved by not paying someone the unemployment benefit may be exceeded by the amount that is spent on the investigatory processes which would be necessary to check on all cases. 
However, having said that, I believe there are a number of cases which require checking at present. Recently there was quite an appalling program on the Australian Broadcasting Commission in which a number of people were interviewed whose actions can be described only as ripping off social welfare benefits to the disadvantage of the whole of the country, particularly to the disadvantage of legitimately unemployed and sick people to whom the money available is reduced by these people. Within the general budgetary restrictions on expanding the size of the Department I have been trying to tighten up this system as much as can be done and to be stricter with the work test. 
I take  Senator Wright's  advice. I will not be too hard on them. I do not want to see people who are entitled to the unemployment benefit not receiving it. I believe steps have been taken which have tightened up this process. In the last month or so action was taken so that a considerable number of people who had been improperly receiving the unemployment benefit are no longer receiving it. That is the policy which the Department and this Government follows. 
-Yes, I have seen the circular letter. I believe it has been sent to all or to most members of Parliament. I am reminded by the Minister representing the Minister for the Media that the last report of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, which was tabled yesterday, shows that the profits of commercial television and broadcasting stations increased from $21m to $23m over the past year. They cannot be having a very hazardous commercial experience at the present time. These new controls were agreed to by Australian Health Ministers at a conference in August last year. Their purpose is to lay down some basis for governments to regulate uniformly all forms of advertising of therapeutic goods. The main requirement is that advertisements must not be false, misleading or deceptive or likely to create an erroneous impression of the product being advertised regarding its character, efficacy, composition or safety. There are specific and more stringent requirements for advertisements for analgesic products, as for example headache tablets and powders, which must contain information on their effectiveness, limitations, content and dosage and include the warning: 'This preparation is for the relief of minor and temporary ailments and should be used strictly as directed. Prolonged use without medical supervision could be harmful.' I do not believe that these new requirements will have any significant adverse effect on the total volume of advertising of therapeutic goods generally or result in the fears of this joint committee which has been sending out the circulars coming about. However, I would concede that the advertising of analgesics may be less attractive to pharmaceutical companies than it was previously. 
Australia is in a rather serious position in that we have one of the highest incidences of kidney disease of any country in the world. I am informed that this can be attributed very largely to the use so widely of analgesics in Australia. Whatever the consequences may be for advertisers, all of the Health Ministers- they represented all the major political partiesagreed that there has to be some sort of restriction on the type of advertising which was being carried out in Australia. This is being done. The proposals which were adopted are most modest proposals when compared with the much stricter requirements which are found in a number of other countries comparable to Australia. Although, as I have said, I do not believe that this is going to bring about any serious reduction in the amount of advertising or have any terrible effects on the commercial broadcasting industry, even if it were to have some effects on them I think that most honourable senators would agree that the effect which the previous latitude allowed to advertisers of therapeutic products was having on the health of the Australian people was a more important consideration than the profits of commercial broadcasting stations. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) I have explained publicly in relation to the Canberra and Woden Valley Hospitals that the quality of accommodation in multiple wards is already comparable with that of intermediate wards elsewhere, especially as most accommodation is provided in rooms with four beds. A patient who wishes to be treated by a private (non-Medibank) doctor on a fee-for-service basis can choose intermediate accommodation (usually four beds to a room, as is the case in standard wards), at a cost of $20 a day, or a private (single-bed) room at a cost of $30 a day when such accommodation is available. A hospital charge of $20 per day is made to Medibank patients who seek and are granted single room accommodation. Where a single room is a medical necessity the patient has priority over patients who choose a single room merely for personal preference. In cases of such necessity no such extra charges for single accommodation are made. 
Contrary to the suggestion in the honourable senator's question, these arrangements are far from a 'punitive imposition' on patients choosing treatment by a doctor charging fee-for-service. Medibank payments are made for occupants of all beds in the hospital be they public (Medibank) or private patients. Until 1 July, private patients were required to pay at least $30 a day for accommodation in a multiple-bed standard ward at Canberra Hospital or Woden Valley Hospital plus extra charges for radiology. These charges were based on State charges. Since Medibank came in, they have been charged $20 a day all inclusive for the same bed. In a single room they were previously charged $50 plus extras- since Medibank $30 is the all inclusive charge per day. If punitive rates have occurred, they were the rates charged to all patients before Medibank except those few exempted from fees because of poverty or for other reasons. No government, including the National-Liberal coalition in Queensland, has ever suggested that private doctors' patients should be accommodated free when they had a free hospital service alternative, and no government has suggested that the charges they all impose for accommodation of patients of private doctors are 'punitive' or 'designed to discourage participation of non-salaried doctors' in hospital care of their residents. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) 12 in all- 10 employed by my Department, 2 by Capital Territory Health Commission. 
Department- 1 position of Director of Public Relations $ 1 7,062; I position of Assistant Director of Health Relations $15,962; 5 positions of Journalist, Grade A1 with salaries of $15,397 (4), $14,815 ( 1); 2 positions of Journalist, Grade A $12,862;1 position of Journalist, Grade B $11,169. 
Capital Territory Health Commission- 1 position of Journalist Grade Al $15,397; 1 position of Journalist Grade A $ 1 2,565. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
The present establishment of Resident Medical Officer positions is 22. This was the pre-cyclone figure. Currently it is regarded that the employment of at least 15 Resident Medical Officers is essential to maintain adequate services in the hospital. Recently this number fell to 14 but the situation has now been rectified by the employment of an additional Resident Medical Officer. With regard to other positions of medical officer the current establishment and vacancies at the Darwin Hospital are as follows:- one of Medical Superintendent one of Deputy Medical Superintendent one of Assistant Medical Superintendent- vacant seven of Senior Specialist-in-Charge ten of Specialist- four vacancies thirteen of Senior Registrars- four vacancies. 
This is an unsatisfactory situation. The major problems concerning recruitment of adequate numbers of medical staff centre around salaries and terms of conditions of employment. These aspects are currently being examined by my Department and the Public Service Board. 
Navigation Act: M.S. 'Lamant' Incident (Question No. 774) 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
The amounts quoted refer to the National Warning Against Smoking, which was funded for the triennium 1972-75 and concluded on 30 June 1975. Some minor funds were required in 1975-76 to conclude projects in hand. The Australian Government decided not to fund the National Warning Against Smoking in 1975-76. The effectiveness of the Warning will be evaluated as a basis of consideration of future policy in this area. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: ( 1 )-(3) ADAPs Ltd- Computer Service Organisation was engaged to provide programming expertise to assist in the development of urgent ADP projects at a cost of $248,433. 
A full-time consultant in Family Planning has been engaged for a period of 12 months at a cost of $20,000 and a part-time consultant on Aboriginal Health was engaged for a period of 12 months at a cost of $ 10,800. 
Thirty-one Drug Evaluators have been used for evaluation of data submitted by drug companies in support of applications for clinical trial or general marketing of new drugs in Australia. A total of $26,550 has been paid for this work since 1 July 1973 up to 1 1 August 1975. 
Four experts were used to evaluate and report on a stoma appliance invented in Australia. The cost of this consultation was $4 18.33. 
Four experts were consulted for the purpose of reaching agreement on proposed Australian standards on orthoses. The cost of this consultation was $793.04. 
In answering this question, the information provided has been confined to consultancy in respect of the three areas of research, public relations and advice. Information on the use of persons or private companies for any other purpose is so broad a request as to make it not immediately available. For example, a number of private medical practitioners have been engaged for short periods to provide specialist medical services in the Northern Territory, otologists are employed as consultants on a sessional basis by the National Acoustic Laboratories throughout Australia and pan-time lecturers are engaged from time to time to assist in teaching at the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine. 
As one would expect with so much opposition to Medibank, a number of statements of this kind have been made after its introduction. However, the claims against Medibank are, in value, under $8m a week. It was predicted that the level of claims against Medibank would be more than $l4m a week when it was operating fully. If honourable senators are interested, I can give the current figures on claims. I think they would show that the predictions which were made and the statements which are now being made are quite false. In July, 160 000 claims were made against Medibank. The total cost was somewhat less than $ 13.5m. In August almost 3 million claims were made against Medibank. The total cost was somewhat less than $30m. 
I am conscious of the fact that  Senator Bessell,  sitting on the side of the Senate that he does, would be more aware of the problem than those on this side. I must confess that my impression was that the percentage in the Parliament would have been somewhat higher than the national average. I am gratified to learn that it is as low as it is. If the figures which  Senator Bessell  gave are correct, some provision ought to be made. I do not know whether it would fall within the jurisdiction of the  President  or the Usher of the Black Rod or whether a resident psychiatrist ought to be made available to senators, but I shall take up this matter with the Minister for Health and see whether provision could be made to have any of the problems worrying  Senator Bessell  and his colleagues dealt with under Medibank. 
-My attention has been drawn to this letter. It was from a  Mr Tom  O'Mahony who, I am distressed to see, has an Irish name, and who is described as the senior partner of O'Mahony, Neville and Morgan, a firm of architects. He said that the architects are not being paid because of funds being directed to provide for what he refers to as 'the huge cost of Medibank and similar policies'. There is absolutely no truth whatsoever in this allegation. The funds are quite separate. Very large sums of money- I have the figures here but I will not go into the details as I think all honourable senators are aware of them- have been made available for aged persons institutions under both the Aged or Disabled Persons Homes Act and the Aged Persons Hostels Act. Provision has been made to ensure that in those cases where out of pocket expenses, including architect's fees, have been incurred by persons involved in the building of these homes and hostels, they are being met. The allegation is completely incorrect. It has no substance whatsoever. The funds of the Health Insurance Commission are totally separate from the funds which are involved in the provision of aged or disabled persons' homes and hostels. 
I did see the article and there were photographs of these peoplethere were a number of them- and they did appear to have faces. Whether or not they would have been better off if they had been faceless I would not care to comment at this time. They are not entirely faceless, I would have thought, as far as the general public is concerned because they are well remembered for many notorious acts such as sending troops to Vietnam and buying the FI 1 1 aircraft. If any of them are at present in receipt of age or disability pensions I feel it would be improper for me to reveal this because of the policy of confidentiality which the Department of Social Security and the Department of Repatriation and Compensation follow. 
-The Government has not yet determined what action will be taken on this matter. As one may have gathered from some Press reports which appear from time to time, all of us have people who seem to be prepared to talk to newspapers about these things. However, discussions are going on but there has not been any determination made by the Government as to what future course it will adopt on this matter. As soon as a decision has been made it will be announced and I trust that at the time a decision is made there also will be a decision and an announcement made about the means of financing the scheme. 
-This is a rather complicated question which has been raised a number of times in the Senate. It involves the treatment of people in psychiatric nursing homes and requires a little detail in its explanation. I have read the article. The Australian Government provides a quite distinct and separate funding and benefit system for nursing homes- that is, distinct from the Medibank scheme. In fact, it was in operation before Medibank was introduced. Most of the legislation was based on legislation which in fact had been introduced by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. The Aged Persons Hostels Act, for example, was an Act of that previous Government. There will be a substantial increase in the rate of nursing home benefits, as distinct from hospital benefits, in New South Wales from 13 November next, but again that has nothing to do with Medibank; it is a separate arrangement. 
The situation with regard to psychiatric hospitals is that where those institutions are conducted by or under the control of State governments they are excluded from Medibank agreements. Under the arrangements which prevailed before the introduction of Medibank patients in government psychiatric institutions were not eligible for hospital benefits. However, there were some difficulties, as one can imagine, in definition in these questions of borderline cases and some patients in 3 psychiatric institutions in New South Wales were paid hospital benefits. With the introduction of the hospital side of Medibank under the agreement which was signed recently by  Mr Whitlam  and  Mr Lewis  and which will come into effect on 1 November the opportunity has been taken in New South Wales, as it has been in other States, to correct these anomalies that existed in the past and to bring the payment of hospital benefits into accord with the legislation. 
The whole question of the financing of government psychiatric institutions is to be examined by a working party comprising representatives of each of the State governments as well as the Australian Government. The patients in privately run psychiatric hospitals and in the psychiatric wards of public hospitals remain eligible for hospital benefits. This is not a new problem. It is a problem which existed under the previous National Health Act arrangements and it is a problem which does require some resolution. We are confident that in a spirit of co-operation and compromise between the Australian Government and the States we will be able to resolve the remaining difficulties which face us. 
I am not quite sure about  Senator Guilfoyle's  question,  Mr President. 
As far as it applies to New South Wales? 
-I have the figures. In fact, I think I have the figures amongst the documents that I have in my hand at the present time. I would prefer to give an accurate answer to  Senator Guilfoyle  on this matter rather than try to delve through these papers or give a figure out of my head. I undertake to give an answer as soon as possible. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The Director-General of Health may require all promotional literature issued with imported drugs for human use to be submitted for approval before printing and distribution. In practice, and to avoid inordinate delays which might result from staff limitations, this requirement is only applied routinely to those new drugs which have been the subject of departmental evaluation and to older drugs where particular problems have arisen. 
) The examination of this material is mainly undertaken within the Drug Evaluation Section by the officer responsible for the evaluation of the drug concerned and is usually done at the time of the original evaluation. There are currently nine Medical Officers from an establishment of eighteen engaged in the evaluation of this material along with their other duties associated with the approval of new drugs for clinical trial or general marketing in Australia. The remaining nine positions of the establishment have not been filled due to a lack of suitable applicants and this situation may be influenced in the future also by the staff ceilings imposed on the Public Service recently. 
1 regret there have been considerable delays in the past in obtaining such approvals. Any average period quoted for the delays would not be meaningful as they vary widely, depending on the extent of evaluation required of the product information which must be incorporated in the promotional literature. However, steps have been taken with a view to minimising these delays particularly where amendments to existing promotional literature based on approved prescribing information are involved. In these cases it is hoped that approvals may be granted more quickly than previously. 
I have no information on the costs of printing the necessary enclosures. However such information could be sought under the proposed amendments to the National Health Act as per the National Health Bill (No. 3) 1975 currently before Parliament. 
Mercury in Fish (Question No. 683) 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Yes. Larger predator varieties of fish with a mass of the order of a thousand kilograms such as sharks and marlin, have a higher total mercury concentration in their tissue than do smaller varieties, and the proportion of this total mercury which is present as methyl mercury is less than in smaller species. Conversely, smaller varieties of fish have a lower total mercury concentration in their tissue than do larger varieties but a larger proportion of this total mercury exists in the methyl mercury form. 
An approach is being made to the New South Wales Government requesting the release of further information on surveys undertaken by their laboratories on mercury in the most commonly consumed species of fish in New South Wales. 
90-99 percent. 
3 ) Some results have been published in ' Rivers ', Pearson &amp; Schultz, Bulletin of Environmental Contaminants and Toxicology, Vol. 8, p. 257-266 (1972) and in Marine Pollution Bulletin, Vol. 6, No. 4, p. 57-61 (1975). For work being carried out by State authorities, the honourable senator's question might well be directed to the appropriate State Government. 
The knowledge of the human toxicology of mercury has been built up over hundreds of years, having been described as early as 1567. The effects of both acute and chronic mercurial poisoning were known before the Minamata and Niigata incidents. Inorganic mercury poisoning was described in a detailed study in 1935. This type of poisoning is characterised as the ' mad hatter's disease '. 
Acute poisoning of human beings by organic mercury compounds was first reported in the 1920s. This was followed by reports of numerous other cases in the succeeding decades which resulted in investigations of the toxicology of organic mercury compounds in animals in the 1940s and 1950s. 
Further details may be found in 'Toxicity of Industrial Metals' by E. Browning, published in 1961, 'Mercury in the Environment' (CRC Press), published in 1972, 'Health Hazards of the Human Environment' (World Health Orgainzation), published in 1972, and 'Health Effects of Environmental Pollutants', by G. L. Waldbott, published in 1 973. 
The Japanese epidemics drew attention to methyl mercury poisoning as a public health problem and directed research towards the environmental pollution aspects. Swedish research with human volunteers indicates that there may be a degree of individual variation in sensitivity to methyl mercury, and it is known that naturally occurring levels of selenium in fish can help to reduce the toxicity of methyl mercury. A full account appears in 'Selenium in Biology', in Annual Review of Pharmacology, Vol. 15, published in 1972. 
I am not aware of any proven evidence that there is any synergistic effect between mercury and lead, copper or arsenic, or that any toxic agents other than mercury were implicated in the Japanese incidents. 
Although my attention has not been drawn to reports from Finnish scientists, I am aware of studies by Swedish scientists, reported in Archives of Environmental Health, Vol. 25, in August 1972. These studies indicated that a relationship does exist between exposure to methyl mercury, by ingestion of fish, and blood mercury level. A correlation between blood mercury levels and levels in hair was also seen. The report stated that it appears that the assumptions concerning the levels of mercury in the blood and hair to be expected following consumption of contaminated fish are reasonably accurate. Current Swedish restrictions in fish consumption are based on these levels. What was not known with any certainty was the level of mercury in the blood and hair which correspond to the onset of clinically detectable symptoms of mercury intoxication. 
The United States Federal Register of 6 December 1974, reported that, in 1970, a study group of 10 scientists concluded, on the basis of their experience in Sweden and Finland where there had been a great deal of investigation regarding mercury hazards, that the FDA action level of 0.5ppm was a sound basis for the protection of the health of the public. 
I am aware of a report by  Dr Yamaguchi  and others at the Kurume University School of Medicine in Japan, published in the United States Health Services and Medical Health Administration Health Reports in October 1 97 1 . This report recognised that fish caught in unpolluted natural waters contain a certain amount of methyl mercury. The report suggested that the amount of fish consumed significantly influences the mercury content in scalp hair, particularly the methyl mercury content. The report said that the actual effect on the health of people of alkylmercury from fish caught in a natural environment will have to be examined in detailed intensive studies. lt is known that studies in Sweden in 197 1 and Finland in 1969 did not reveal any cases of clinical methyl mercury poisoning resulting from fish consumption, despite the high blood mercury and hair mercury levels in some cases. Swedish workers indicate that this is related to individual variations in sensitivity to mercury poisoning. This was reported by Skerfving in Food and Cosmetic Toxicology. Vol. 10 in 1972. 
The National Health and Medical Research Council has recommended that the Australian and State Departments of Health should undertake a further 'market basket' survey along the lines of previous surveys conducted during 1970 and 1974. The survey is to ensure the continued monitoring of the residues of certain pesticides and heavy metals in selected foods which are typical of average dietary habits. 
Following discussion with the Australian Government Analyst, it was decided to survey cereals, meat, fish (including shellfish) eggs and offal, butter, vegetables, fruit and canned goods including juices, fruits and vegetables (some of them intended for consumption by infants), condensed and evaporated milk. Sampling, which began on 26 February 1975 will cover each State capital city on a seasonal basis, with the last purchases to be made in midOctober 1975. The items are being cooked and subsequently blended at the School of Home Science. East Sydney Technical College, while the analyses for organochlorides and heavy metals including cadmium, lead, tin, zinc, arsenic and mercury are being carried out in the laboratories of the Australian Government Analyst. 
The results of the 1974 survey were received in February 1975, and a detailed analysis of the results is currently taking place. A complete report will be available for the Eighty-first Session of Council in the latter part of 1 975. 
Such surveys, by monitoring levels of mercury and other toxic residues in food, will assist in averting any danger to the population by drawing attention to any occurrence of unusually high levels of pollutants in food, including mercury in fish. 
My Department is also keeping work in the international field under close attention, such as the 1972 Swedish study mentioned in (5), which was aimed at collecting some basic data needed for the evaluation of risks attending intake of fish with increased levels of methyl mercury. 
Since there is no effective therapy for methyl mercury poisoning, prevention, as the only means of control, must be emphasised. Such means should be directed at the maximal reduction of controllable sources of mercury emissions to the environment and the provision of adequate regulations that minimise exposure of vulnerable sub-groups, such as children and pregnant women, to mercury from fish. 
See (7). 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) The type of information relating to individual doctors that is being stored falls into three basic groups: 
Registration information which is held to establish that a person rendering the professional service is a Medical Practitioner as defined by the Health Insurance Acf. 
Provider Code- a reference code allocated to each Doctor. Full name and Title (e.g.  Dr. Mr. etc.)  Sex. 
Pensioner Indicator- records whether the doctor has given an undertaking to direct bill for eligible pensioners and their dependants. 
State or Territory Registration No. 
Period for which registration is current. 
Specialties in which the doctor is recognised and the dates they are current. 
Practice location information held to enable Medibank Payments to be posted to doctors' correct addresses. 
Dates showing the period during which the doctor practised from that location. 
Address of the practice. 
Payment Group Information- used to make payments to another person or address where this has been requested by the doctor. 
Hospital Number- indicates that this practitioner is in some way associated with a particular hospital. 
Information relating to medical services on which benefit has been paid, in addition to comprising certain of the information outlined in (a) and (b) above, and also comprises: 
Patient Identifier 
Provider (Doctor) Code Item Number Date of the service Amount charged Benefit Amount paid 
Payment Code- indicates whether the benefit was paid direct to the doctor, to the doctor via the patient or to the patient. 
Where a referral note is issued the following items are also held: 
Patient Identifier Provider Code- the Doctor to whom the patient has been referred. 
Referral Term- the period for which the referral is current. 
Referral Category- treatment or opinion. Referral Date. 
Information relating to individual doctors is also held in an aggregated statistical form which in addition to certain of the information outlined above shows for each doctor at each practice location and for each item of the fee schedule: 
Number of services rendered 
Sum of fees charged 
Sum of schedule fees 
Sum of Medibank medical benefits paid 
Number of services where fee charged exceeds schedule fee 
Sum of fees where fee charged exceeds schedule fee. 
to (5) These matters are the subject of the Health Insurance Bill (No. 2) 1975 currently before the House of Representatives. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I ) and (2) I am aware of the potential occupational hazards of polyvinyl chloride (PVC) and vinyl chloride monomer ( VCM ) and of recent references suggesting that these hazards include biological reactivity and a possible haemolytic effect. I have asked that further information on these references be obtained and that the National Health and Medical Research Council examine the matters. 
An expert sub-committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council has recently completed an examination of health aspects of: 
the storage, handling, and packaging of polyvinyl chloride (PVC); 
the chemical reaction involving the polymerisation of vinyl chloride monomer into polyvinyl chloride; and 
the fabrication of polyvinyl chloride (PVC) into a finished product. 
The sub-committee comprises a number of health experts and includes representatives of industry and trade unions. The National Health and Medical Research Council will shortly consider a draft Australian Code of Safe Practice developed by the sub-committee and proposals to inform industry and workers of the hazards associated with VCM and PVC. 
Pursuant to section 6 of the Darwin Cyclone Damage Compensation Act 1975 1 present a report on the operation of the Act for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
I think that this is clearly a question which only my colleague, the Minister for Health, could adequately answer. I ask  Senator Missen  to place the question on notice so that a proper answer can be given. 
I think a blunt answer is required to a blunt question. The answer is no. 
-Yes, my attention has indeed been drawn to documents which have been issued by various medical practitioners to citizens of this country. The documents have had stamped on them such inscriptions as 'I do not belong to the AMA or the Government'- I am not quite sure what that is meant to tell us- and Who is Gough Whitlam?'. It seems rather extraordinary for overworked doctors to be sending out messages like this at large. I must say also that for a profession that is so anxious to preserve its doctor-patient relationship, which I understand is so precious, it has a very strange way of going about it. 
-Oddly enough, I have not had my attention drawn to his Grace 's comments but nonetheless I welcome them. As  Senator Chaney  has said, they are not infallible in this field but- if I may remind him, and I would have thought he would have known betterneither are the statements of any other archbishops infallible in this or any other field. I think, if I have correctly interpreted it, that I am indebted to him. I certainly appreciate the comments that he has made. There are difficulties in Victoria. I believe that the difficulties are being overcome. I do not believe that despite the efforts of certain surgeons there is quite the calamitous situation to which  Senator Melzer  has referred. I believe and hope, as we all do, that the Medibank facilities which are being made available in Victoria will continue to prosper. 
I think the latter part of the question should be more appropriately addressed to the Treasurer who is responsible for taxation matters. I am not responsible for them. With regard to the other matter, I agree that if doctors are proposing to work without payment, which may seem eccentric, it certainly will save a lot of money. I have no advice at the moment as to what the Health Insurance Commission proposes to do with regard to the matter raised by  Senator Baume,  but he has drawn it to my attention and I will accept his word that doctors are proposing to do this in an effort to assist the public purse. I will see that his suggestion is conveyed to the Health Insurance Commission. I hope to be able to give him an answer in the near future. 
I have been able to extract some figures which I think would not be in any way generous. They show the amount which has been spent so far by insurance companies in opposing the Government's proposal to establish an Australian Government Insurance Corporation. As far as their campaign in the various media of information is concerned, my information is that so far this year they have spent in the metropolitan and national Press $187,814, and on metropolitan television $177,282, on country television $13,011, which gives a total figure of $378,107. I think there should be added to that the costs which have not been estimated by my Department which have escaped attention. If one estimates them at 10 per cent, that would add another $37,810. Productions costs of $41,591 and agency fees of $29,738 should be added. That means that almost $500,000-in fact, $477,246-has been spent by the insurance companies in opposing the Australian Government Insurance Corporation. 
What is unknown is the cost of pamphlets and other printed matter that goes unsolicited to policy-holders, the cost of the time lost on full pay of employees of insurance companies who attend rallies and any paid overtime necessary to catch up on work which they would otherwise have been doing if they were not attending these so-called spontaneous rallies, and the cost of the salaries and office space of officials working full time on the campaign against the Government. It is known that  Mr Renton  of the Life Offices Association receives $25,000 per annum as salary as a full time opponent of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation legislation. It would appear that he spends his full time on this activity. So one can say that at the very minimum the figure would be well in excess of $500,000 in the few months that the insurance companies of Australia have been using their policy holders' money to oppose Australian Government policy. 
I should like to be able to answer that question, thus indicating the tremendous grasp of detail that I have on this matter, but I am afraid that I cannot. I ask  Senator Bessell  to put the question on notice so that I can get a proper reply for him as early as possible. 
-Senator Sheil was good enough to let me know last week that he would be asking this question and I have obtained the information for which he asked. The answer to the question relating to the total staff employed by the Health Insurance Commission, which covers Medibank, is that as at 26 September the Commission employed 3844 people. Of that number, 418 were temporary staff. The question as to how long does 'temporary' cover may be answered by saying that the continued employment of temporary staff will be examined progressively in the light of the experience which the Health Insurance Commission has in administering Medibank. I do not think that it is possible to nominate any cut-off date for the employment of temporary staff until such time as we know what will be the stable work load for the employees of the Commission. 

 Senator Shell's next question was: How do the staff total and staff cost compare with estimates before the Commission was operating. A figure was estimated in January 1975, after most of the private funds had refused to enter into agency arrangements with the Health Insurance Commission. The staffing numbers which were then estimated for the Commission's requirements were 3500 permanent staff, plus 200 temporary staff to meet demands in those areas, particularly population registration, where the initial work loads were very high. The estimated salary cost for those people was $25,505,000. The revised staffing estimate for the Commission's permanent staff remains unchanged at 3500, but it is now envisaged that up to 700 additional temporary staff will have to be engaged. The revised salary estimate is $30,900,000. 
-On 2 October,  Senator Guilfoyle  asked me a question without notice relating to the cost to the Australian Government of the entry of New South Wales into Medibank hospital arrangements from 1 October 1975. 
I am able to advise the honourable senator that in the table on page 5 1 of Budget paper No. 7 headed 'Payments to or for the States', an amount of $245m has been provided for the Medibank hospital arrangements in New South Wales for 1975-76. New South Wales did not enter hospital Medibank until 1 October and this estimate was based on that assumption. 
This amount is based on estimates supplied by the New South Wales Government, which in turn have been based on certain assumptions relating to matters such as the proportion of patients in recognised hospitals seeking free treatment in standard wards, the manner of remunerating doctors treating such patients, and the level of remuneration of these doctors. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
In replying to a question from  Senator Marriott  on 4 September 1975 I advised that I was not aware of the particular problems that were being experienced in relation to the financing of the Canadian Health Insurance arrangements but that inflation was an obvious factor that would be affecting the price of health services. I undertook to obtain information on the current position in Canada and I have asked my Department to do so. I shall advise the Senate of the results of the inquiries. 
Department of the Media (Question No. 797) 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable senator to the Prime Minister's answer to question No. 88S which appeared in  Hansard 2  October 1975, page 930. 
-Social security appeal tribunals have been established by way of an experiment. They have not "been established under any statutory authority in the way in which the various repatriation appeal tribunals have been set up under legislation. It has been the experience of the Government so far that they are working very successfully. As at 30 June last there had been some 3400 appeals lodged against decisions relating to the payment of unemployment benefit. During the same period, which would be from January of June of 1975, almost 400 000 claims for unemployment benefit were made throughout Australia. Approximately 5 per cent of the appeals which were made by persons objecting to decisions concerning unemployment benefit were upheld. The manner in which the procedure has been adopted is for - 
-Five per cent were upheld by way of a recommendation from the appeal tribunal to the Minister. Approximately 47 per cent of unemployment benefit appeals were upheld by the Department of Social Security itself, however, without reference to the appeal tribunal. On a number of instances it was not found necessary to refer matters to the appeal tribunal. The number of unemployment benefit appeals lodged as a percentage of the total unemployment benefit claims lodged was less than one per cent, which I think would indicate that the majority of applicants for unemployment benefit have been satisfied with the treatment that they have received from the Department. 
I was not aware that  Dr Everingham  had this prejudice against the fish in Port Phillip Bay that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack seems to be suggesting. I do not know what could explain his taking that selective attitude. I am not familiar, surprising though it may be, with the heavy metal pollution of fish in other parts of the world. 
Yes, I know; I appreciate that. I shall ask the Minister for Health to let me have that information and provide it to  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack and the Senate. 
If you would like to put it on notice you are perfectly at liberty to do so, but in any event I shall obtain the information for you. 

 -Senator McLaren has provided me with a copy of a letter, which he correctly described as irate, from a  Mr J.  A. Bignall of Murray Bridge.  Mr Bignall  is objecting to a pamphlet which was sent to him with some business documents by the South Australian Insurance Co. Ltd. The pamphlet has a rather familiar look about it. It looks like those pamphlets that used to come out about 10 years ago which showed red arrows coming down from China and pointing at the Royal Perth Golf Club. This pamphlet in fact shows an arrow marked 'Nationalisation' pointing at something which looks more like Australia than it looks like anything else. It purports to explain that the Government wants one government insurance company, no choice, nationalised control. It asks various rhetorical questions such as: 'Why will the Government not admit that nationalisation is their policy and is under way?' It is a blatant piece of political propaganda, paid for with policy holders' money. In his letter  Mr Bignall  says that he believes - 
I was not aware that Medibank in Queensland was refusing to pay for medical services by doctors to other doctors, their wives and families. 
-Senator Mulvihill has suggested that maybe this is handled under a knock for knock agreement. I do not know. That practice might indeed have some merit,  Senator Willesee  says: 'Physician, heal thyself. I shall take this up with the Health Insurance Commission and if I find that this discrimination is being engaged in I shall take whatever steps I can to see that it ceases. 
I also received this letter. I think I must have got it by mistake, because it calls on me to take various actions against  Senator Wheeldon  who, as it happens, is myself. 
As it happens, yes. The letter complains about a number of things, one of which is the appointment of  Mr Stewart  as Minister Assisting the Minister for Social Security and Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. I cannot understand the basis of this complaint.  Mr Stewart  is himself a veteran who has taken quite a lot of interest in veterans' affairs and is a member of the Returned Services League. At no stage has it ever been suggested that all representations- or indeed any representationswould have to be made through  Mr Stewart.  In fact, it is only a few months ago that I had quite a long meeting with representatives of the Federated TB Sailors, Soldiers and Airmen's Association of Australia when its national executive met in Canberra, at which time they raised no objections to any of these matters. The fact of the matter is that the Government has endeavoured to rationalise a number of activities such as by the amalgamation of the Department of Civil Aviation with the Department of Transport and the Department of Labor with the Department of Immigration. It has been felt by the Government that it is sensible that all of the matters relating to welfare ought to have some sort of coordination. So far as the complaints are concerned about increases in benefits made to repatriation beneficiaries, I think that any examination of the figures shows that they are completely incorrect. I do not want to labour the point now, but certainly this is the only veterans' organisation of which I am aware which has complained in any way about the record of this Government in the improvement of repatriation entitlements and repatriation benefits to the veterans of this country. 
-The answer to the question is yes, and I think I made a public statement to that effect. It would not be correct to say that this figure represents a national average figure because the areas which were selected were selected specifically because it was felt that geographically they would be areas in which there could well be a concentration of people who were, for want of a better term, ripping off the social security. 
I do not remember all of them, but they were the sort of areas in which one could spend a more enjoyable time not doing any work than some other places. The surveys were not taken in the industrial suburbs of Melbourne or Sydney. However, I think in fairness it has to be stated that to a large extent those people who were found not to be eligible for unemployment benefits were not by any means all people who were defrauding or deliberately misleading the Department of Social Security. Some of them were people who had obtained work or had changed their address, or something like that, and the ordinary administrative procedures had not caught up with these changes. 
But certainly, as I think I have said quite frequently, I believe that the policy of the Department of Social Security towards the payment of unemployment benefits should be a sympathetic policy- that is to say, I believe it is better that a person who is not entitled to unemployment benefits should be receiving them than that somebody who is entitled to unemployment benefits should not be receiving them. Within the limitations of staff that we have available in view of the Government guidelines on restricting the expansion of the Public Service, we are making these periodic checks and we are, in conjunction with the Department of Labor and Immigration, seeing that the work test is strictly applied. 
I do not think it is of any benefit to the working people of this country, and I do not think it is of any benefit to the legitimately unemployed people of this country, that there should be those who deliberately take advantage of the Australian people in order to receive unemployment benefits when they are making absolutely no effort whatsoever to obtain any work. I can assure  Senator Jessop  that, as I have already said, we shall continue to see that the work test is enforced while at the same time taking account of the fact that a number of people are legitimately entitled to unemployment benefits and ought to be able to receive them without going through any humiliating interrogations or examinations. 
-When the Budget was being prepared the Government decided that it would try to hold pensions at the real income level at which they were prior to the introduction of the Budget. However, even despite the fact that this was not part of a deliberate attempt to maintain the age pension at 25 per cent of average weekly earnings in accordance with the policy of the Australian Labor Party and this Government, the position is considerably better than one might gather from reading some of the petitions which have been presented to the Senate, including some which I have presented myself. In fact, when the pensions aire increased in November they will have been increased by 94 per cent since this Government came to office. 
In the period from the December quarter of 1972 to the June quarter of 1975 the average weekly earnings have increased by only 54 per cent, compared with the 94 per cent increase in pensions. However, the current pension of $36 a week is 23.4 per cent of the average weekly earnings figure for the June quarter, which is $153.80. The current figures, which I believe result very largely from Government policy, show a significant decline in the rate of growth in average weekly earnings. Therefore when the pension increases are paid in November the standard pension of $38.75 a week will in fact be 25.2 per cent of average weekly earnings. In fact we will be paying more than 25 per cent of average weekly earnings for the age pension, which exceeds the demands or requests that are being made in the petitions. If one were to look at the percentage of what the pensions were - 
-Those are the only figures on which one can base it. There is no other way in which one can base it. If one were to look at the percentage that the pensions were of the average weekly earnings over previous years and under a previous government, one would find that in 1969 the pension stood at 20.3 per cent of average weekly earnings, that in 1 970 it stood at 19.3 per cent of average weekly earnings, that in 1 97 1 it stood at 1 9.2 per cent of average weekly earnings and that in 1 972 it stood at 20.4 per cent of average weekly earnings compared with the figure that will come into effect in November of 25.2 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
In the light of the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs the Government is at present considering the re-introduction of a Bill to provide for a national no-fault compensation scheme. It is at the same time considering means whereby that scheme may be financed. It may be remembered that among the recommendations that were made by  Mr Justice  Woodhouse and  Mr Justice  Meares for the financing of the scheme there was the recommendation or the suggestion that the imposition of a levy on the price of petrol to replace the present compulsory third party insurance premiums should be considered. That is one of the matters that the Government and the Parliamentary Labor Party are considering. The considerations have not by any means yet been completed. When they have been and a Bill is prepared, if it is decided that there should be such a Bill, an announcement will be made. But at this stage it would be quite impossible for me to speculate as to what the Government or the Parliamentary Labor Party may decide on this very complex matter. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (3) The information sought by the honourable senator is shown in the following schedule: 
-No, I do not consider them anything like accurate reports of the answer.  Senator Jessop  asked yesterday whether investigations had been undertaken by the Department of Social Security into recipients of unemployment benefits and whether it had been found as a result of these inquiries that some 30 per cent of those into whom the inquiries were made were not eligible for these benefits. The answer which I gave was yes, this was so, but I pointed out during the course of my answer, as Hansard will reveal, that the inquiries were made in selected areas where it was anticipated that a fairly high number of people who were not entitled to the benefits were receiving them; that in no way did this represent a national average and that in fact a number of the people were not dole cheats but were people who had not had their names removed from the list of recipients of unemployment benefits either because they had changed their addresses or they had obtained employment but had not, through inadvertence or otherwise, notified the Department of Social Security. 
The  Australian,  with considerable hyperbole, under the heading 'Government admits to giant fraud by dole cheats' stated: 
The Federal Government has resolved to crack down on dole cheats to end a multi-million dollar fraud. 
No such statement was made by me, nor could any such conclusion be drawn from anything that I have said. The  Daily Telegraph  said that on the basis of 30 per cent of those people about whom inquiries were made being ineligible, some 100 000 of nearly 300 000 people receiving benefits would be cheating the system. As it happens there are not 300 000 people receiving unemployment benefits. Those are the unemployment statistics of the Department of Labor and Immigration. The number receiving unemployment benefits is less than 200 000. So in any event the figures were wrong. 
On top of that it was not suggested, as I made quite clear in my answer, that 30 per cent of total recipients of unemployment benefits were dole cheats. The  Daily Telegraph,  with some remarkable arithmetic, said that the Government is resolved to crack down on dole cheats to end the scandal costing the country $7.8m a week. No such proposition was put forward and no such answer was given by me. I think this is an example of either gross incompetence by the Murdoch Press or a deliberate attempt to mislead the Australian people. 
I have seen the report of  Mr Hamer  's statement. It is, I suppose, not surprising that we are seeing an increasing number of similar opinions being expressed lately in view of the rapidly increasing burden which is being imposed upon both private and government employers because of the rapidly increasing premium rates for workers compensation insurance. Similarly, if I may add, one sees in conjunction with this an almost equally rapid increase in the premiums for compulsory motor vehicle third party insurance, which is also causing a great deal of concern. There were discussions between myself and the relevant responsible Ministers from all 6 Australian States earlier this year.  Mr Rossister  from Victoria represented that State at the meeting. There was an amiable and quite free exchange of views on the whole question of national compensation at that meeting. At the time I undertook that we would have further discussions. Of course, the position is in a state of some fluidity at the present time as a result of the Senate Committee's report and as a result of further deliberations which are taking place in the Government as to what future action we shall take on the question of national compensation. 
I believe that this is a matter in which we should be moving co-operatively with the States. I will take up  Senator Everett's  suggestion that I write to  Mr Hamer  about this matter. I would be very happy to have further discussions with him on the question. Certainly, the matters to which  Mr Hamer  and the Leader of the National Country Party in Victoria have referred are matters which are the subject of the Woodhouse-Meares report, they were dealt with by the National Compensation Bill which is still on the notice paper in the Senate and was considered by the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. I believe that they should be covered by a national scheme because the problems are problems which affect all the States equally. However, I shall write to  Mr Hamer.  I hope to have further talks with him or his responsible Minister on whatever proposals he wishes to put forward. 
I have been given by  Senator Baume  a copy of the letter written to him by  Dr Hughes,  a Liberal member of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly, in which he says: 
Enclosed is a copy of a letter sent to a Canberra patient who contacted the Australian Capital Territory Psychiatric Service direct, and attended for consultation. At no stage did she go to the Kippax Health Centre. Soon afterwards she received this letter, which means that the Psychiatric Service people are giving information to Kippax Health Centre regarding names and addresses of patients who have sought psychiatric help, and these are being passed onto the University Social Psychiatric Research Unit . . . 
The enclosed copy of the letter addressed to the patient was written by a  Mrs Helen  McAuley, a research social worker, on the writing paper of the Australian National University. In her letter  Mrs McAuley  said: 
I am writing to seek your help in an area of medical-social research. At the University and some of the Health Centres, we are studying the effect of stress on people 's health. 
The staff at the Kippax Health Centre are helping me contact new patients, whom I then see for about an hour, either at home or at the Health Centre. 
It is clear from that letter that the Kippax Health Centre provided this information to  Mrs McAuley  at the Australian National University, but I do not think the situation is quite as clear as has been stated by  Dr Hughes,  because the letter that - 
-Yes, I know, but I am referring to the letter of  Dr Hughes  which gave rise to this matter. I do not think it is by any means clear that the A.C.T. Psychiatric Services gave the information to the Kippax Health Centre. 
If  Senator Baume  will restrain himself for a moment I will get to the point which he is asking me. What I am saying is that it is by no means clear from the information that has been provided by  Dr Hughes  that the A.C.T. Psychiatric Services did provide information to anybody. All that is clear is that the Kippax Health Centre, with which the patient informs us she had no dealings, provided the information to somebody at the Australian National University. I am asked by  Senator Baume  to find out how that information was made available to the Kippax Health Centre. If it was not provided to the Centre by anybody under the authority of the Minister for Health, then of course I cannot provide that information. It may have come from neighbours or from some private practitioner. I do not know at this stage how the Kippax Health Centre got the information. 
All I can do is undertake to find out- I hope to be able to do this by tomorrow- what regard is paid to the confidentiality of information which the A.C.T. Psychiatric Services has, to answer these questions if they are raised tomorrow at the relevant Estimates Committee, to take what steps I can take, and to ask the Minister for Health to take what steps he can take to see that information of this kind is not disclosed. I repeat that on the information that is available now, despite what  Dr Hughes  has said, there is no solid evidence to indicate that anybody in the A.C.T. Psychiatric Services has provided information to anybody. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) My statement was as follows:  . . In fact I mentioned this matter yesterday when I referred to the fact that the decisions which are taken by trade unions to affiliate with the Australian Labor Party and to contribute to the funds of the Australian Labor Party are done publicly. Everyone is well aware of them; they are done lawfully, and they are done by a ballot of the members. I am not objecting to the Australian Mutual Provident Society making contributions of whatever kind, be they of goods, services or cash, to any political Party. All I am asking is that if the Society does so it conducts a ballot amongst its policy holders in the same way as trade unions do; that it makes the contributions completely public; that if it so wishes it affiliates with the Liberal Party, and that it be prepared to become as clearly identified with the National Country Party as the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union is with the Australian Labor Party. If that is done I have no objection whatsoever. ' 
It was in reply to a question without notice from  Senator Rae  which reads as follows: 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security and the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation who is also the Minister for war against insurance companies. In the course of making his statements in his war of attrition against the rights and freedoms of insurance companies and their employees will the Minister make reference to the use or misuse of funds of various trade unions to campaign for and provide financial support to the Australian Labor Party against the wishes of large numbers of their members?' 
My statement and  Senator Rae's  question cannot be understood without reference to an answer to a question without notice which I gave the previous day. The relevant part was as follows: 
I would be interested to hear from the Opposition members, who talk so freely about secret ballots in trade unions and the democratic election of trade union officials -something with which I largely agree- when they are going to call for a secret ballot amongst the policy holders in these insurance companies about the use of their money to bring down the Government for which the majority of the policy holders voted. ' 
When members of the Opposition are prepared to supply me with this information or arrange for the insurance companies to give me the details, I am prepared to request that the information he seeks in (2) be provided to him. 
-My attention has been drawn to the  Waverly Gazette  by a number of interested readers of that journal. I have seen the reports of a debate which took place. My information is that the endorsed Labor candidate for Bruce was asked to debate the issue of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation with the present member for Bruce whose name would still be familiar to some honourable senators opposite. The honourable member for Bruce declined to take part in the discussion but, in the interchangeable way which they apparently have, a senior functionary of the National Mutual Life Association represented the Life and General Insurance Committee and/or the Liberal Party in the debate. 
The representative of the Life and General Insurance Committee, a  Mr Ferres,  did misinform his audience, as reported in the  Waverley Gazette,  when he said that insurance companies provided about 50 per cent of all investment funds for the business community through premium income. In fact, any examination of the statistics about investment by insurance companies throughout Australia shows that that is a gross exaggeration of the kind one is becoming used to from these sources. In fact, the statistics show that life insurance companies have invested something like 14.3 per cent in the assets of financial institutions and 6.6 per cent are controlled by non-life insurance companies. It is absolute nonsense therefore to say that they are responsible for 50 per cent of the investment. I believe that this is a further instance of the collaboration between the Liberal Party and the insurance companies and the manner in which the life and other insurance offices spend their policy-holders' money on appearing for the Liberal Party in campaigns of this sort. 
-Yes, I have seen the copy of the  AMA Gazette  to which  Senator Grimes  has referred. I have seen the article to which the honourable senator refers in which the Australian Medical Association apparently advises its members not to include the provider code on the forms which they submit to the Health Insurance Commission on their stationery. For a number of reasons, including a need to see that there is accuracy in the computer assessments of Medibank claims, it is necessary to give to each doctor and other providers of services which are covered by Medibank and listed on the item fee schedule, a reference number which is referred to as the 'provider code'. As each Medibank claim is prepared for computer processing, it is necessary to look up the provider code on a listing and then write the number on the claim. Because provider coding is causing quite long delays in the processing of claims, a number of improvements in the methods of coding are under examination. 
On 15 September last, nearly 22 000 letters were sent to doctors. As at 29 September, the number of favourable responses had reached only 5300. But it is still quite a substantial number of replies within such a short period from doctors who were prepared to carry out these suggestions. It has been estimated that for each doctor participating in this proposal, Medibank would save up to $340 a year in clerical costs. The doctors who have replied to this letter have displayed considerable co-operation. It is unfortunate that other doctors are not doing so. It is apparent that despite the imploring of the AMA, through its gazette, to doctors to take part in the sabotage of Medibank, the majority of doctors are patriotic citizens who do not wish to disrupt the economy of this country and who wish to see that the laws of the country are carried out effectively and are providing this information. 
-Yes, not only has my attention been drawn to that article but also by a coincidence I have it with me. In replying to a question of a similar nature that was asked of me last week by  Senator McAuliffe  I told the Senate that there were not 300 000 people receiving unemployment benefit. Those are the unemployment statistics of the Department of Labor and Immigration, which relate to people who are seeking employment and who are not necessarily, by any means, people who are eligible to receive unemployment benefit. The number of people who are receiving unemployment benefit is considerably less than 200 000. The total number of people receiving unemployment benefit at the end of August was 1 70 927 and the total payments for those in receipt of unemployment benefit for the month of August was approximately $35m. I repeat that the level of unemployment is in no way reflected accurately by the figures that are provided by the Department of Labor and Immigration, and I say that in no way critically of my colleague or his Department. In fact, if one wishes to look at the true position- the position of those people who are unemployed in the sense that they are eligible to receive unemployment benefit- the figures that are provided by the Department of Social Security are a much more reliable guide to the total number of unemployed within the community and in fact the cost of unemployment benefit is considerably less than that which was claimed by the Murdoch Press's Sydney newspaper. 
I have not heard these rumours. I do hear a lot during the course of the day but I am afraid these have not reached me. 
I have been listening to other rumours, yes. The order of presentation of Bills before this chamber is in the hands of the Leader of the Government in the Senate and the Manager of Government Business in the Senate. 
I am afraid that I was not aware of the practice of inducing births in office hours. I suppose it would enliven an otherwise dull morning tea break. I do not know what effect it has on the mother and child. However, it could have a rather startling effect on fellow clerks and stenographers. I shall refer the matter to the Minister for Health and obtain a detailed answer for  Senator Melzer. 
I was rather delightfully surprised to read in yesterday's  West Australian  a letter from a  Mr Michael  Beech who appears to be one of the few members of the Liberal Party who apparently want to uphold the traditions of Australian parliamentary democracy. 
-Senator Durack suggests that  Mr Beech  may have changed his mind. It may well be true that in the light of the events of the last day he is no longer a member of the Liberal Party. I can see that that could be so. I would not blame him if that were the case. However, while he was still a member of the Liberal Party he wrote this letter to the  West Australian  in which he drew attention to those matters to which  Senator Mcintosh  has referred. As I have told the Senate on a number of occasions, I do have evidence that a number of insurance companies, and the insurance companies collectively through their organisations, have been giving' substantial assistance to the Liberal Party and the National Country Party in New South Wales, Tasmania and Western Australia. Whether they have been able to induce the Liberal and National Country Parties to adopt their social welfare policy which primarily seems to consist of the demolition of what has been constructed under a Labor Government, I do not know, because until now we do not know what the social welfare policies of the Liberal and National Country Parties are, 
-There have been discussions between officers of the Department of Tourism and Recreation, the Department of Health and the Department of Social Security on this matter. I think that a week or two ago the Minister for Tourism and Recreation,  Mr Stewart,  issued a statement on this matter in which he discussed a proposal that a Boxing Commission should be established in Australia, presumably similar to that which functions in the United States of America. I do not remember the full text of  Mr Stewart's  statement but it was to the effect that if a Boxing Commission were established, it would imply some recognition by the Australian Government of boxing whereas, as I recollect, his view is that boxing itself is a rather barbaric form of sport which ought to be discouraged rather than regulated. However, I will obtain a copy of the statement which was made by  Mr Stewart  who is in his capacity - 
-The Minister for Tourism and Recreation has responsibility for matters relating to sport. It is difficult to work out who has responsibility for boxing as I suppose that nobody has ever administered it in the past. But it has been taken by Government decision that the Minister for Tourism and Recreation should be responsible for it. I will obtain a copy of  Mr Stewart's  statement and see that it is provided to  Senator Marriott.  If he wishes to follow up this matter later, I will be happy to do so with him. 
-Two days ago  Senator Baume  asked me a rather puzzling question as to whether it was proposed that there should not be any increases in pensions as outlined in the Budget. I do not know whether he was predicting the subsequent extraordinary actions which have been taken by the Opposition. The matter of when new pension rates will come into effect is now largely in the hands of the Senate. If they do not come into effect on the date that was announced in the Budget, then of course that is the responsibility of  Senator Baume  and his colleagues in the Opposition. The Government knows what it wants to give to the pensioners. If the Opposition wants to deprive the pensioners of those increases then that is entirely up to the Opposition. The Government will take care to see that the pensioners are well aware of the fact. 
As it happens, if there had not been this completely extraordinary behaviour by the Opposition the increased rates of pension would have come into effect as from 4 November, in accordance with the undertaking given by the Government when it presented the Budget. If the increases do not take effect; if the pensioners are denied these increases; if as a result of appropriations being withheld we do not have public servants available to pay the pensions to the pensioners, then that also is part of the consequences of the actions which have been taken by the Opposition in defying the will of the people which was expressed twice within 18 months, and so preventing the Government from carrying out its policy. It will be the Opposition that will be denying pensioners the increased pensions to which they are entitled. 
-When I learnt that the insurance companies were opposing equal pay for their women employees I was not shocked. I was mildly disappointed but not in the least surprised. This has been typical of their attitude, not only in relation to the employment of women but also in relation to the formulation of policies regarding women. I think that, as has been illustrated before, if one looks at the instructions to agents of the life assurance companies one can see that not only is there racial discrimination but also there is sexual discrimination involved in their policies. That , of course, is one of the reasons why they fear the establishment of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation, which would eliminate those discriminatory and undemocratic practices. 
-Yesterday  Senator Melzer  asked me a question relating to the induction of labour in births. A reply has been provided for me by the Minister for Health. I undertook to obtain it from him. 

 Dr Everingham is aware of recent medical controversy condemning the practice of inducing labour at times primarily chosen to suit the attending doctor. There is no doubt that the Australian Medical Association and all responsible professional bodies would condemn induction of labour for any purpose other than the safety or well being of mother or child. Of course there are legitimate, sometimes cogent, reasons for inducing labour, and it may well be more reasonable in some cases where there is no great urgency to induce when staff and facilities are more readily available. The Minister for Health is unaware of any research being undertaken specifically into the possible ill effects of induction which has no definite medical justification. However, throughout the world there is constant evaluation of the factors which influence child birth specifically or lead to obstetric complications. I believe that the physical and psychological wellbeing and comfort of the mother and her child should be the overriding considerations of the attending doctor, and that most doctors are still not swayed from this view by considerations of the working hours they prefer. 
The proposition with which we are dealing today is a dangerous proposition which has been introduced in dangerous times. The debate which is taking place here and which will continue outside this Parliament is a debate which will produce a great deal of emotion and already has produced a great deal of emotion. I shall try as best I can not to display the emotion which I feel about this subject. The proposal which is being put by the Opposition is, in effect, that the Government which was elected twice within the last 3 years, should be subjected to a third election within 3 years. This is being done in dangerous times because it is being done at a time of world wide economic depression and, without engaging in debate as to what extent, if any, this Government is responsible for any inflation or unemployment which occurs in this country, the fact remains that throughout the whole of the capitalist world there is at present massive inflation and unemployment. 
These are dangerous times, dangerous periods in history which have produced dangerous and damaging consequences. One needs only to look back at the last great depression which began in 1929 to see how, as a result of that great depression and how as a result of the fact that certain persons took advantage of the disorders which were created by that depression to push their own narrow interests, democracy was destroyed in a great many countries throughout Europe. I believe that we are in a similar international situation and for the first time, except for the brief emergence of the New Guard in New South Wales in 193 1 , we in Australia have been placed in a similar position where what is under threat is the future of the democratic system. 
I do not propose to engaged in debate about the legalities of the Constitution. I have no opinions from learned counsel or professors of law but I do put to the Senate that the position at present is that in December 1972 and again in May 1974 the Australian people elected a Labour government. They have found since they elected that Labor Government in 1972 and reelected it in 1974 that constantly that Government has been unable to introduce major parts of its program, that most of the things which it was elected to do it has been unable to do and has constantly had to conduct its business in an atmosphere of crisis and under the threat of being driven from office, a situation which is intolerable at the best of times and especially damaging in the situation in which we find ourselves at present. 
It has been said before- I will say it againthat democracy is a very fragile plant. There are not many countries where the democratic representative parliamentary system survives and only recently we have seen how, in a number of countries with long traditions of the democratic parliamentary system, that system has been destroyed. For example, it has happened in Chile which, despite some of the humorous remarks that have been made about that country by people sitting opposite, is not a banana republic but a country with a long constitutional democratic history. One of the parties which was represented in the Congress of that country, a fraternal party of ours in the Socialist Internationale, the Radical Party, had over 125 years of continuous representation in the Parliament of Chile, but that Parliament has been destroyed. In the neighbouring countries of Argentina and Uruguay, particularly Uruguay which is a country with a model social services system- again, no banana republic- a country whose system of government was based on a parliamentary system with a most complex system of proportional representation, democracy has been destroyed. The same thing happened in the 1930s when democracy was destroyed in Germany, Austria and Spain. I do not believe that I am being unduly dramatic when I say that the atmosphere of Berlin in 1 933 is being recreated in Australia now. The atmosphere has been generated by those who are prepared to destroy the democratic system in order to carry out the behests of the people whom they represent. 
I am not one of those who have ever said that the people who sit opposite us are born to rule. They are the lupine elements from the petty  bourgeoisie-  the life underwriters, dentists, car salesmen and realtors. They are not born to rule, but they represent people who elected them. They represent the people who were celebrating yesterday at the Sydney Stock Exchange when  Mr Connor  was removed from his position as Minister for Minerals and Energy. Senators opposite are prepared to carry out the behests of their electors, in the same way as Pinochet and the gangsters in Chile carried out the behests of their supporters when they destroyed the Government of Chile and murdered the  President  of Chile. 
What is contained in the amendment? It is that because of the letter of the Constitution the people of Australia should not be entitled to have the Government which they have twice elected within 3 years. I do not want to speak at length on this subject. I want to say only a few things about it. I want to warn senators opposite of what they are doing. I believe they are taking a very grave risk. I think it can fairly be said that in years to come historians will say that there is blood on the hands of those sitting opposite today. I say that quite literally. There will be blood on their hands. They are destroying something which was built up by a very painful process in this country. I refer to the traditions which we inherited from Europe, including the tradition of the election of parliamentary government. One of the traditions is that when a government is elected for a term it sees out that term. The Opposition is attempting to destroy that tradition. It is attempting to do so by the most despicable means- by departing from the principle that a person who is appointed to fill a vacancy caused by the death of a senator shall be a member of the party of which the deceased person was a member. 
How was the Opposition's resolution carried last night? Because our colleague  Senator Milliner  had died. The Queensland Government did not have the honesty or decency to replace him with a member of the Australian Labor Party of which he was a member. Last night the Opposition's resolution would not have been carried if  Senator Milliner  had been living or if senators opposite had acted with one skerrick of decency or one skerrick of respect for the democratic traditions of this country. They did not. 
They are committed to the destruction of the system of which they set themselves up as the exponents. A former Attorney-General has blackguarded the High Court and one of its members,  Mr Justice  Murphy. The Government has never blackguarded the Chief Justice, a former Attorney-General, who was a member of one of the Opposition parties. He has also dealt with matters relating to the representation of the Territories. We have never blackguarded him. Senators opposite blackguarded our former colleague who is now a member of the High Court. The Governor of Queensland has used his high office to denigrate the Australian Government in the most unpardonable way. There was not one word of reproach from the Opposition. 
What is the problem with which we are faced? I have seen the sheepish looks on some of these great democrats on the other side. I have seen how they voted. They have voted the same way as the Centre Party and the Liberals voted for the enabling Act which made Hitler the Chancellor of Germany. That is what senators opposite did. That is what they would do if they were in Germany. They would be very apologetic about it, but they would do it just the same. I have seen them vote for motions to bring down a democratically elected government, while people on this side have argued that democracy should be preserved. We have often had a difficult task because there are people in this community who are prepared to reject the system. Nobody could agree more with senators opposite than I do when they speak of the capitalist system. When they talk about the parliamentary system, I do not agree with them. How can we now go to working people throughout this country, some of whom are looking for an excuse to cause trouble, and say: 'You must abide by representational democracy and the parliamentary system' when they will be able to say: 'Whitlam won 2 elections in 18 months and we have seen what happens'. 
The Queen 's representative, the Governor of Queensland, has absolutely prostituted his office. The Parliament of Queensland has appointed to this Parliament a scandalous wretch, to replace a man who had been elected by the people of that State. Every convention- I do not use the word in any narrow legal sense- which it is necessary to have to maintain a democratic system has been flouted. Senators opposite are doing this in dangerous times. They are doing this in the era of plastic bombs and guns in the street. During the last few years in Northern Ireland a substantial number of people decided that elections were a charade. In that province a number of people took certain steps. I predict- in predicting it, I deplore it- the steps which are being taken now will produce precisely the same result in Australia. This Government has been trying to maintain the economy of this country on an even keel, by advocating wage indexation and by restraint in public expenditure. If we are removed, will Opposition members be able to convince the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union or the Miners Federation to restrain their wage demands? Why should the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union or the Miners Federation restrain their wage demands if they know that they are living in a society in which anything goes, in which it is the ruthless who - 

 -As Senator Douglas McClelland said, it is the law of the jungle. Where that law prevails, why should they restrain themselves? I see  Senator Chaney  sitting there in all his sheepish righteousness. But if he and his colleagues are elected, it is they who will have to talk to the coalminers and to the workers in the building industry and in the metal trades industry. I think I can predict now the exact answer. Their stupid narrow approach to this question will not only destroy this political system but will also hasten the destruction of the economic system, which is their primary reason for being in politics. 
These are the warnings that I give them. I do not believe that this matter will be resolved by quoting opinions from the honourable T. E. F. Hughes, Q.C., or any professors of law, whatever side they might take. This question must be resolved on the reaction of the people to what has happened and to what is happening at present. The reaction of a substantial number of Australians will be that the parliamentary system is a farce. Just like the Provisional IRA, the Black Panthers and a number of organisations which are to be found in almost all countries, apart from those which adhere strictly to the democratic system- countries which have Labour governments such as the Netherlands, Sweden, the rest of Scandinavia, West Germany and Austria- there is violence at present. The same sort of situation will be created here by an Opposition whose members are so anxious to get back into their Commonwealth cars, grab the fruits of office and be taken to lunch by the  Chairman  of the Sydney Stock Exchange that they are prepared to risk the destruction of the whole system, because they are risking the destruction of the system. 
They will have the problem of trying to keep the economy running when the unions say, as  Senator Douglas  McClelland said: 'This is the law of the jungle. If you live in the jungle you act as if you live in the jungle '. At the same time they are opening the doors to the total destruction of the democratic system, in the same way as Franco destroyed the democratic system in Spain in 1936. This is what they are doing. This- not some issue about who borrowed money from whom- is what is facing the Australian people at the present time. These are the questions which shortly, in one way or another, the Australian people will answer, and on that answer depends the future of this country. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I refer the honourable senator to the Prime Minister's reply to question 885 published in Senate  Hansard  of 2 October 1975 at page 930. 
I must confess that I was unaware that  Senator Drake-Brockman  had received all these cards, and it certainly must have been a pleasant surprise for him when he came back from overseas to find them waiting for him. There has been a number of instances of people not having received a card and there are other instances of people having received more than one card. These are the sorts of problems which are going to occur in the introduction of any massive scheme such as Medibank. One consequence of using computers, I suppose, is that although a number of things can be speeded up there are opportunities for error which sometimes are greater in certain types of instances than in the case of ordinary human error. I cannot give any assurance that this is an isolated instance. I think that the number of instances of these things taking place has been relatively very small compared with what one might well have expected to be the case with such a huge operation. I am only sorry that a member of the Opposition's shadow Cabinet was one of those who received 7 cards. I will see that in future, if possible, if anybody is going to receive the wrong cards it will not be  Senator Drake-Brockman. 
I have read the report and I have in fact read the paper which was prepared by  Mr Chipp.  It certainly does constitute a very remarkable about-turn by him and his Party on this question. I think the Senate will recall that at the Joint Sitting of both Houses of the Parliament on 7 August last year the Health Insurance Act and the Health Insurance Commission Act, which established the Health Insurance Commission, which operates Medibank, and which provided for the payment of the benefits that are available under Medibank, were passed and that subsequentlyon 1 August and 1 1 December last year- 2 Bills which were presented by the Government were rejected by the Senate after having passed through the House of Representatives. Those 2 Bills were the Health Insurance Levy Bill 1974 and the Health Insurance Levy Assessment Bill 1 974, which in fact provided for a special levy to pay for Medibank. 
It is rather odd that the Liberal Party should now say that something which was to be financed out of general revenue would be a total failure when, legislation having been passed to provide for Medibank, it was through the actions of the Liberal and Country Parties that the proposals that it should be financed out of a special levy were rejected by the Senate. It is certainly a most extraordinary proposition that is being put forward that when we put up a levy Bill they rejected it and that after it has been rejected it suddenly becomes sound policy. I agree with what  Senator Everett  has said. It casts doubts over the whole integrity and understanding of  Mr Chipp  and the Opposition on the question of health services. 
It is understandable that  Mr Jacques,  along with a number of other people in the community, should be very concerned about the actions of the Opposition in withholding the Budget. But as it happens, in this case  Mr Jacques'  fears, so far as geriatric nursing homes as concerned, are ill founded. Both the payment of nursing home benefits under the National Health Act and payments to religious and charitable homes to meet operating costs are deficits under the Nursing Homes Assistance Act and payments are made under the National Welfare Fund which will not be affected by the current situation. In the Budget it was announced that the rates of nursing home benefits payable to patients in private nursing homes and approved under the National Health Act would be increased from the first pension day in November, which is 13 November. A Bill to amend the National Health Act to provide for these increases will be introduced into the Parliament this week, and. I presume that the Opposition will not oppose this Bill. 
However, there is one problem to which of course  Mr Jacques  would be quite right in drawing attention, and that is that although the actual appropriations for geriatric nursing homes are covered elsewhere, the salaries of the public servants who administer these funds and make arrangements for the payments are covered in the Budget itself, as are the various administrative expenses involved. So it may well be that if the Opposition continues on its present course for long enough, the very difficulties that  Mr Jacques  has foreseen facing his organisations will in fact arise. 
-The effect of the Opposition's withholding appropriations from the Government in this instance will be the same as it is in other instances; that is, the funds which would normally be available under the Darwin Cyclone Damage Compensation Act to compensate people in Darwin for the loss of property and, to a lesser extent in this case, for death and personal injury will not be available. Without the funds being made available to them by way of compensation from the Government, obviously the amount of money available to the people of Darwin to rebuild Darwin will be much less. Of course, the reconstruction of Darwin will be affected by the withholding of appropriations from other departments as well. Certainly, as far as the very pressing task of rebuilding that devastated city is concerned, the actions of the Opposition will have a most harmful effect indeed. 
-Since Medibank became operative on 1 July last nearly 1 1 million claims have been received and more than 1 50 000 claims are received every day. Last Friday about 550 000 cheques and assignment claims were on hand in the various offices of the Health Insurance Commission. The average time lag for the payment of claims, other than cash paid claims, is a little over 8 days. There are 3 reasons why this is the case. The information relates to the period between the date of receipt of the claim by the Health Insurance Commission and the date of the preparation of the cheque. With the volume of claims being received there have to be cases, usually for very good reasons, which exceed this norm. They are the cases which the Opposition likes to quote in its rather schizophrenic approach to Medibank which it sometimes supports and sometimes opposes. What I think is relevant is that 90 per cent of Medibank claims are paid in under 2 weeks. Although there is a very great tendency for opponents of Medibank, most of whom seem to be members of this Parliament, to make statements to the Press whenever the 5-day cycle of payments is not met, I do not regret that we do not have such a tight schedule for processing these claims. I am quite convinced that in a short while, when the Health Insurance Commission has had an opportunity to settle down and eliminate the problems which I think can be fairly described as teething troubles, the objective of a 5-day average for the payment of claims will be quite easily reached. 
in reply- It will be impossible for me to say a great deal on the Bill because the resolution of the House of Representatives relating to the reintroduction of the Appropriation Bills will be debated here at 9 o'clock. The only words I would like to offer at this time in the moments that remain to me- I do not think a great many words are required to deal with what  Senator Baume  has said- are to - 
Yes, in the moments that are remaining to me on this occasion, but I will be here for a long time after you have gone; I can assure you of that,  Senator Wright.  Gone and forgotten, if you are not already.  Mr President,  the only thing I would say about  Senator Baume-  very few words are required to deal with what he said- is that this long panegyric upon the drug companies and this rather garbled version of the history of social development whereby credit for the eradication of whooping cough, measles, the slave trade and the white Australia policy can be given to the private drug industry, interesting and inaccurate though it may have been, have absolutely no bearing on the legislation which is before the Senate. I can see that  Senator Wright  is terribly upset. I had not realised until now that he had any interest in the drug industry whatsoever. 
-What was the noun? 
If I could correct  Senator Wright,  I think the abstract noun is puerility'- that is the one he is grasping for-not 'puerilety' I think if he were to refer to a dictionary he would find there is no such word. It is puerility,  Senator Wright.  If you want to use these long words I suggest that you use them correctly and not misuse them in this way.  Mr President,  whether or not drug companies are admirable institutions and whether or not all the social and medical ills of the past ages have been eradicated by the private drug business is quite irrelevant to the legislation we are debating tonight. What we are debating now relates to the National Health Act and the obtaining of information from the pharmaceutical companies so that the Australian Government, that is the Department of Health, in negotiating the prices of drugs will have information available to it which will enable it to approach the matter in a sensible way with all the information which is necessary to make some rational decision about what prices ought to be paid for the drugs which are being obtained and provided by way of pharmaceutical benefits to the Australian people. In view of the time, I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
in reply- As I was saying before the debate on this Bill was interrupted, the matters which  Senator Baume  raised have very little, if any, bearing upon the motion which is now before the Senate, and that is whether this Bill should be passed and whether the pharmaceutical companies are the major benefactors of humanity and have cured all of these diseases out of a spirit of benefaction. They may be very interesting matters to raise but they are utterly irrelevant to what we are discussing tonight. What we are discussing tonight is the means proposed by the Australian Government whereby there can be a more effective regulation of the prices of pharmaceutical products. 
The proposal which has been brought forward was brought forward because of a recommendation which was made as long ago as 1973 by the Joint Committee on Prices. It recommended quite clearly that the Department of Health should be able to obtain this information. When it brought down that recommendation the Committee was comprised of members from both Houses of the Parliament and it was a 3-Party Committee represented by the Labor Party, the Liberal Party and the Country Party, or whatever happened to be its name at that time. It is rather curious to hear  Senator Baume  saying that we have been rushing this matter with undue haste, I think was the expression he used, when  Senator Guilfoyle  had been complaining earlier that we had been taking too long about it. 
-Somebody had made some such suggestion. I correct that. I would be surprised if  Senator Guilfoyle  had made such an outrageous suggestion, but somebody did.  Senator Baume  was telling us that the problem is that we were exercising undue haste, when it has taken almost 2 years for this Bill to reach the stage that it is in now. All we were trying to do is to obtain information so that we can negotiate effectively with the pharmaceutical companies. We cannot negotiate effectively with them at the present time.  Senator Baume  has asked us whether we have any evidence of collusive practices. We clearly do not have evidence of collusive practices. The Department does not have evidence of collusive practices because it does not have the sort of evidence on which it would be necessary to base any assessment of whether there were collusive practices. In fact, that is what we are trying to find out by means of the Bill which is now being debated by the Senate. 
The proposition has been put that the Department should be aware of drug prices generally. The Department is aware of the market price of drugs which are available on the open market, but in the case of patented drugs which are usually comparatively expensive there are many instances in which the price charged to the Australian subsidiary by its overseas affiliate is useful, together with manufacturing and other costs, to assess reasonableness of price, and that is one of the things that we are trying to be able to obtain by means of the proposed amendments to the legislation. The question has also been asked both here and elsewhere as to why it is that overseas companies should charge high prices for drugs supplied to their Australian affiliates. The answer to that question is that the transfer prices of drugs is a means used by multinational corporations to arrange in which country they wish to make their major profits- for example, a low tax country. Whether or not they are doing this we do not know, and we are not going to know unless we have the legislation which we are seeking to have passed by the Senate tonight. The basic question, of course, is why it is necessary to have legislation to require pharmaceutical firms to provide this information regarding costs. The answer to that question is that many firms, particularly the multinational corporations, do not normally volunteer such information. Many of them have said that they would do so if they were required to do so under the law of the country, but at the present time they are not prepared to make available that information. The amendment which has been moved by  Senator Guilfoyle  is to the effect that the Senate is of the opinion that the Bill should not be proceeded with until the Industries Assistance Commission has completed and published its report on pharmaceutical and veterinary products. The inquiry being undertaken by the Industries Assistance Commission is a very interesting and important one. It is an inquiry which we certainly hope will be of great benefit to the Australian pharmaceutical industry. However, it is quite irrelevant to what is being attempted to be done by this Bill. What we are attempting to do by this Bill is to fix some adequate price for those pharmaceutical products which are the subject of pharmaceutical benefits, and what assistance may be given by way of tariff or other forms of assistance by the Industries Assistance Commission is completely irrelevant and completely separate from what we are trying to do by this legislation. 
The Industries Assistance Commission is at present undertaking its inquiry and the information which it will require to achieve an understanding of the problems of the industry in Australia is the same sort of information as to costs and other financial considerations which this Bill would make available to the Department of Health. Nonetheless, as I have said, this is a quite different matter. The information which would be obtained under the provisions of the National Health Bill (No. 3) would not be made available from the Department to the Industries Assistance Commission. We are not connected in any way with any inquiries of the Industries Assistance Commission. In the same way, the Commission's information would not be made available to the Department of Health. In order to make certain that fair and reasonable prices can be assured for pharmaceutical benefit drugs, it would not be reasonable to cause any further delay in requiring the industry to provide this necessary information to the Government. That, in fact, is what the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices, many of whose members were prominent members of the Liberal and National Country Parties and the  Deputy Chairman  of which was formerly a Liberal Party Prime Minister of Australia, recommended we should do. That is what we are doing. 
The question has been raised about confidentiality. As is always the case with the Opposition whenever there is a debate of this kind, it does not stick to the issues before the Parliament. Its members always suggest all sorts of evil motives and cunning conspiracies. The ghost of Fu Manchu is summoned forth with the 3 faceless men. It sounds like the prodigals of the elders of Zion. Whatever Bill is brought forward, evil conspiracies are conjured up in relation to it. Fiends and demons are produced from some cauldron to haunt the poor senators opposite. The suggestion has been made that somehow we will obtain information which will be provided to these evil socialistic government makers of pharmaceutical products and that they will use their illgotten information in order to sabotage these great benefactors of humanity, the private pharmaceutical companies. 
There is a provision in the principal Act which preserves the confidentiality of information which is obtained by the Department of Health. These provisions are contained in section 135a of the principal Act which provides for a penalty of $1,000 fine or 3 months imprisonment for divulging any information acquired under the terms of the Act. It would be a breach of the Act bringing with it those penalties if any such information were made available to anybody else. That includes Fawnmac the government-owned company which is producing pharmaceutical goods, or the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories, which is a statutory authority. It is a clear breach of the Act to provide that information. I do not know why the Opposition Senators keep making these suggestions. I would have thought that if they wanted to oppose the Bill, there are more honourable ways' of doing it than by making these very unpleasant, unfair, unjust and inaccurate accusations against the Government. I do not know for the life of me why they are opposing this proposition. The resolution is a completely reasonable one. We are trying to fix the prices of pharmaceutical goods by negotiation with the pharmaceutical companies that manufacture these pharmaceutical goods. 
-That is all we are trying to do and that is all the Bill provides for. Yes, it will be by force if it is to be a law. All laws are based on force. If  Senator Sheil  says that he objects to the use of force, what he is objecting to is the existence of law. The entire body of civil and criminal law would be abolished if  Senator Sheil  who, without knowing it, is an unconscious anarchist, were to have the political philosophy to which he subscribes adopted by this Parliament.  Senator Sheil  apparently is in favour of no law whatsoever. 
The Government rejects the amendment which has been put forward by the Opposition. We shall be voting against this amendment. We believe that this is an essential piece of legislation which was recognised by a Committee of the Parliament on which both Houses and all parties were represented. I believe that the amendment should be rejected and that the Bill should be read a second time. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Guilfoyle's amendment),  be left out. 
I have not seen the report in the  Australian Financial Review,  but since the Senate Select Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs brought down its report on the previous National Compensation Bill discussions have been going on constantly within the Cabinet and within the Parliamentary Labor Party on the Bill. What we have been trying to do is to persist with a national compensation Bill and we hope to be able to meet the various points that were made by the Senate Committee, which made a great many useful suggestions. We have still not yet completely decided the full form of the Bill which will be introduced. As I think  Senator Drake-Brockman  knows, there has been a number of meetings of the various consultative committees, the Life Insurance Consultative Committee and the General Assurance Consultative Committee, about the impact of this and other schemes on the private insurance industry. I have had one meeting with the responsible State Ministers and have undertaken to have another meeting with them in the near future. At this stage the final form of the Bill has not been completely determined. 
I find it difficult to comment on whether an article was correct but I can assure  Senator Drake-Brockman  that I will continue as I did previously, and confer with the Opposition on this matter. I think  Senator Drake-Brockman  would agree that I was very open with him and with  Mr Chipp  in all previous discussions on the National Compensation Bill. I hope we can reach a bipartisan approach, as was achieved in New Zealand, on this matter and that we will not have unnecessary confrontations. The Senate Committee, which was a bipartisan committee, was able to reach a fair measure of agreement and I hope that the same measure of agreement can be reached by the Parliament. 
I am afraid that I do not have this information readily available. I think, generally speaking, we are very strict in these matters. I ask  Senator Sheil  to put the question on notice so that I can get a detailed reply from the Minister for Health. 
As I understand it, this question is being directed to me as both Minister for Social Security and Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. Naturally, like everybody else I was interested to read that the Leader of the Opposition was going to cut government expenditure by 12 per cent. So we applied our minds as to how a cut in expenditure of 12 per cent would affect my respective departments. As far as the Department of Repatriation and Compensation is concerned, a reduction of approximately $100m would be required in order to save 1 2 per cent, as  Mr Fraser  said he would do. It seems that there are 2 ways in which this could be done, the first of which would be by stopping all repatriation pension payments for 10 weeksthat is one way of saving 12 per cent. The second way would be by stopping all payments for Darwin compensation, which would save $26m; by stopping all medical treatment to veterans from private sources, that is local medical officers, pharmaceutical benefits and so on, which would save $55m; by closing of all repatriation hospitals, which would save $12m; by cutting back overtime and administrative expenses, which would save $2m; and by stopping all major works, which would save $3m. There would be a saving in toto of $ 101m. That is what we would need to do in the Department of Repatriation and Compensation to save the 12 per cent about which  Mr Fraser  is talking. If we turn to the Department of Social Security to save 12 per cent in the budget of that Department, it seems that there is a number of things that we could do. 
I can assure  Senator Webster  that while I am in the Senate I find it impossible to forget some of the idiots. A number of payments which I will now enumerate would need to be cut for at least 6 months to make a saving of 12 per cent. We could cut unemployment and sickness benefits for 6 months which would mean a saving of $2 18.5m. Such a cut in invalid pensions would mean a saving of $ 197.9m, $3. 8m in maternity allowances, $3.9m in handicapped children's allowances, $5. 9m in rehabilitation services, $7.5 m in sheltered employment allowances. Such a cut in deficit financing of nursing homes would save  Mr Malcolm  Fraser $ 15.6m. It would save $900,000 on the Meals on Wheels subsidy, $4m on payments to States for deserted wives, $lm on the orphans pension and $900,000 on the funeral benefit. That would give us a saving of $459.9m, which is somewhat less than the 12 per cent saving which  Mr Fraser  said he would be able to make. We could make none of those payments whatsoever to achieve a 12 per cent cut. That would not include a cut of 12 per cent in the administrative vote of the Department- some $l.7m- which of course would mean the Department would be unable to function. 
-I have seen today's  Courier-Mail  newspaper and a report in it of the statement which has been made by the Queensland Minister for Welfare Services,  Mr Herbert.  In the article,  Mr Herbert  is reported as having accused - 
-Herbert it is actually. He accuses  Mr Hayden  of sending letters to pensioners in his electorate warning them that because of the activities of the Liberal Party they would not be getting their pensions. Apparently,  Mr Herbert  goes on to say: 
Federal socialists have now reached the position where they will attempt to intimidate pensioners, the poorest sections of the community, and do anything to try to attain their ends. 
I am not quite sure what he means by that. He also says: 
We are going to drag them screaming to the polls anyway. 

 Mr President, there is no suggestion at this stage that pensions will not be provided for in the money which we now have available to us. The pensions are appropriated separately. The problem is that we do not have the money available for the administrative services- for the postage, for the printing of cheques and for the salaries of those people who are employed in the Department of Social Security and who have to administer the payment of these pensions. It is no use the Opposition trying to shift the blame on to  Mr Hayden  or on to anybody else in this Government. If it denies appropriations, if it takes steps which mean that the Department of Social Security will be unable to function and the pensioners do not receive the moneys which they are entitled to under the law of this country, the responsibility rests solely on the Opposition in the Senate. It is quite improper and misleading for  Mr Herbert  or anybody else to blame  Mr Hayden,  the socialists or anybody in this Government. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill embodies the Government's Budget proposals for improvements in social service pensions and benefits. These improvements while significant in themselves do not extend to substantial new initiatives in the social services field. As has been explained by the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden),  this is a time for consolidation of advances pending a full review of the income security system in the next 12 months. 
The main provisions of the Bill are as follows: 
The standard rate of pension for aged persons, invalids, widows and supporting mothers is to be increased by $2.75 a week to $38.75 a week. 
The married rate of pension is to be increased by $2.25 a week to $32.25 a week-that is, by $4.50 to $64.50 a week for a pensioner couple. 
Additional payments for children of pensioners and supporting mothers are to be increased by 50c a week to $7.50 a week for each child. 
Double orphan 's pension is to be extended to cover a child, one of whose parents is dead and whose other parent is in prison or in a mental hospital. 
Unemployment and sickness benefits payable to unmarried persons aged 1 8 years or more are to be increased by $2.75 a week to $38.75 a week. 
Unemployment and sickness benefits payable to married persons are to be increased by $2.25 a week to $32.25 a week. 
Additional unemployment and sickness benefits payable in respect of dependent spouses are to be increased by $2.25 a week to $32.25 a week. 
Additional payments for children of unemployment and sickness beneficiaries are to be increased by 50c a week to $7.50 a week for each child. 
The proposed pension increases will flow on to recipients of sheltered employment allowances. 
Honourable senators will know it is the Government's objective to progressively lift the standard of living of pensioners by raising the standard rate of pension twice a year until it reaches 25 per cent of seasonally adjusted average weekly male earnings. Since December 1972 when the Government came to office a substantial real redistribution of income has been effected in favour of pensioners and beneficiaries. However in the present climate of high inflation and unemployment the Government believes that for the immediate future all of us should show restraint in our demands for more resources, whether it be for public services or for higher incomes. For that reason the Budget proposed to increase, as a temporary measure the standard rate of pension by the percentage increase in the consumer price index between the December quarter 1 974 and the June quarter 1975 and to base the increase payable in the autumn of 1976 on the increase in the consumer price index between the June and December quarters of 1975. 
This does not represent a change in Government policy or an abandonment of the principle that pensions should be raised to the level of 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. We have decided to increase pensions this year by rises in the consumer price index as a temporary measure to ease the pressures of public spending on the economy. It is, however, interesting that for the first time since this Government has been in office we have, with this latest proposed increase, achieved our goal, and age and invalid pensions now represent 25.2 per cent of average weekly earnings. The increase proposed in this Bill resulting from this method of calculation in the case of the standard rate of pension is $2.75 a week. The proposed standard rate of pension is $38.75 a week which is equivalent to 25.2 per cent of average weekly male earnings for the June quarter 1975, the latest quarter for which figures are available. The increase will consequently maintain for pensioners the real gains in spending power that have been achieved by them since the Government came to office and, on the basis of the June 1975 figures .marginally improve their position. With the proposed increases the standard rate of pension will have increased by almost 94 per cent since December 1 972 and the married rate by 87 per cent. Compared with this, over the period from June 1972 to June 1975 the consumer price index increased by almost 45 per cent and seasonally adjusted average weekly male earnings increased by 61 per cent. 
I will now give examples of some of the effects of the proposed increases. A class A widow or supporting mother will receive a basic pension or benefit of $38.75 a week, together with mother's allowance of up to $4 a week and additional pension of up to $7.50 a week for each dependent child. The mother's allowance is payable at $6 a week if there is a child under 6 years or an invalid child requiring full-time care. Thus, a class A widow or supporting mother with 2 noninvalid children over 6 years will receive a maximum pension or benefit of $57.75 a week. The same rate will apply to single age or invalid pensioners with children. If the pensioner or supporting mother pays rent supplementary assistance of up to $5 a week is payable in addition to pension. The maximum proposed pension of $64.50 a week for a married couple may also be increased by up to $7.50 a week for each dependent child and, if rent is paid, up to $5 a week is available by way of supplementary assistance. 
The proposed increases will have the effect of raising the limits of income and property at which pensions cease to be payable under the means test. This will enable people who are now excluded from pension entitlement to qualify for some payment for the first time. The limit of income which just precludes payment of a pension to a single person without children and with no property affecting his pension, will be increased by twice the amount of the pension increase to $97.50 a week. If he has no other income he will be eligible to receive some pension until the value of his property assessable for means test purposes reaches $5 1, 100. For a married couple without children, the equivalent limits of income and property will be $163.50 a week and $85,840 respectively. 
A widow or supporting mother with one child and no property affecting will be able to receive other income of up to $126.50 a week before losing her entitlement to widow's pension, or supporting mother's benefit. If her child is under 6 years of age or an invalid child requiring full time care she will be able to receive other income up to $130.50 a week without losing her entitlement. If she has no income affecting, a widow or supporting mother with one child may have property to the value of $56,860. If her child is under six or an invalid child requiring full time care she may have property to the value of $58,940 before entitlement is extinguished. There are various combinations of income and property in between the figures I have quoted which will permit the payment of a full or part pension. 
In turning to the proposal to extend the scope of double orphan's pension I should first say that this pension was introduced by the present Government in September 1973 as a measure of assistance for people caring for children who have permanently lost the companionship, support and comfort normally provided by parents. Double orphan's pension is paid in respect of a child both of whose parents, or adoptive parents, are dead. The principle also extends to a child one of whose parents, or adoptive parents, is dead if the whereabouts of the other are unknown to the claimant. 
Requests have been received from various quarters proposing that the scope of eligibility be extended to include a child whose sole surviving parent is in prison or in a mental hospital. The Government feels that the position of these children is not greatly different from that of children whose parents are both dead or where one parent is dead and the whereabouts of the other unknown. Accordingly it has been decided to extend payment to a person who is caring for a child one of whose parents is dead and the other serving a term of imprisonment for life or for not less than 10 years or who is a mental hospital patient and, in the opinion of the DirectorGeneral will remain so for an indefinite period. 
The Bill also contains provisions relating to the treatment of de facto marriage relationships. The policy of the present and previous Governments has been that couples living together on a bona fide domestic basis, though not legally married should not be placed in a better position for pension or benefit purposes than if they were legally married. One effect of this is that the financial resources, if any, of a de facto spouse are included in the calculation of his or her partner's entitlement to pension or benefit. However, attention has recently been drawn to anomalies arising from the fact that the definition of dependent female in sections 18 and 106 of the Social Services Act relate only to de facto relationships of 3 years' duration. The Government proposes to correct these anomalies by deleting the references to 3 years' duration. This will mean that in future a de facto wife who is living with a man on a bona fide domestic basis will qualify for wife's pension or attract additional unemployment or sickness benefit without any regard to a qualifying period on the same basis as women who are legally married. At present if they have not lived with their husbands for at least 3 years special benefit may be granted but the need to assist them in this way will cease as soon as the Bill receives the Royal Assent. 
The Bill also contains a provision which will give specific authority for the exclusion of a woman living with a man on a bona fide domestic basis from entitlement to a widow's pension. In doing so the Bill removes any doubt which may have existed in this area. While it will of course continue to be necessary for officers of my Department to determine the facts in these matters it is proposed to re-inforce the instructions already in force that all such inquiries must be conducted with tact and discretion. 
A further provision will enable an overpayment of child endowment to be recovered from any continuing entitlement to endowment. As the Principal Act stands at present this is not possible. The amendment will suit the convenience of endowees who for one reason or another have been overpaid endowment and have a continuing entitlement. 
In addition the Bill provides that where the rate of pension or supporting mother's benefit as determined under the means test is less than $ 1 a fortnight, payment will be made at the rate of $1 a fortnight. It has been found that the issue of cheques for small amounts such as 20c a fortnightthe minimum rate now paid- is often a source of annoyance rather than satisfaction to the recipient. In future the value of all fortnightly instalments of pension and supporting mother's benefit will be not less than $1. The same minimum amount is to apply to all adjusting cheques. 
The new rates provided for in this Bill will be payable from 4 November, 1975 in the case of widow's pension and supporting mother's benefit and from 13 November 1975 in the case of age, invalid and wife's pension. Increases in the rates of unemployment and sickness benefits will operate in respect of payments due on and after 1 November 1975 or on and after the date of Royal Assent, whichever is later. The full year cost of the proposals in this Bill is estimated to be $5 18m and $234m in 1975-76. Increases in service pensions will involve an additional $3 1 m for a full year and $14m in 1975-76. For 1975-76 the total cost will be approximately $248m.  Mr President,  I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
-This Bill gives effect to the Government's proposals to improve certain repatriation benefits and seamen's war pensions, and shows the continuing recognition of our responsibility to those who made such a valuable contribution to the security of our country. We owe an everlasting debt of gratitude to them. Since coming to office this Government has made enduring and substantial reforms in the repatriation field. It is now time to take stock of these achievements and to consolidate the gains we have made. 
Under the Labor Government, repatriation benficiaries have been acknowledged as deserving special recognition and much has been done to ensure that they are adequately compensated. For example, the special rate (totally and permanently incapacitated) pensioner will, as a result of Government actions since 1972 and those now proposed, be in a far better financial position than he was under the previous Government. In March 1 973 and retrospective to December 1972, the special rate pension, paid to totally and permanently incapacitated and other specified veterans, was restored .to the level of the minimum wage for the first time since 1950. Further, since 1973 this pension has been increased commensurate with movements in the minimum wage and, since the Government took office, has already been increased by $20.10 a week. The new rate of $74. 10 a week proposed in this BDI will bring the total increase to $26.10 a week. Although the general ( 100 per cent) rate is not being increased on this occasion, the Labor Government has progressively raised it to the current figure of $28 a week- an increase of 100 per cent in less than 3 years. In contrast, the previous Government provided only one increase of $2 a week in its last eight years in office. 
Increases in the war and defence widows ' pension rate provide a further example of the concern shown by the Labor Government for dependants of veterans. Since 1972 this pension rate has been increased by $16 a week. This Bill proposes a further increase of $2.75 a week. The new rate will be $38.75 a week. The intermediate rate of pension is also to be increased. This pension is paid to veterans who, because of servicerelated incapacity, are able to work only part time or intermittently and consequently are unable to earn a living wage. The Bill provides that this pension will be increased by $3.00 a week to $51.05. The Bill provides that each of the increases to which I have referred will also apply to pensions payable under the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act. 
About 70 000 pensioners will benefit from the proposed increases in these pensions, which will cost approximately $8.8m during the current financial year. 
The service pension is also to be increased. It is payable, subject to a means test, to a veteran who served in a theatre of war and is aged 60 years or over- 55 years if a female- or who is permanently unemployable, or, irrespective of the area of service, suffers from pulmonary tuberculosis. Increases in service pensions flow automatically from those proposed for age and invalid pensions in the Social Services Bill (No. 3) 1975. For the standard rate the increase will be $2.75 a week and for the married rate it will be $2.25 a week. The new standard and married rates of service pension will therefore be $38.75 and $32.25 a week respectively. A total of more than 1 1 8 000 service pensioners will benefit from these increases. In addition, service pension payable in respect of each child of a service pensioner will be increased by 50 cents a week to $7.50. The increased rates of pensions proposed in this Bill will be payable as from the pay day 6 November 1975. As I announced last August, the Government has agreed to further improvements in disability and service pension rates and war and defence widows' pensions from the autumn of 1976. Amending legislation to give effect to these further increases will be introduced early in 1976. 
The Bill amends the Repatriation Act to enable the appointment of a member of the Repatriation Commission to act as Secretary to the Department of Repatriation and Compensation and  Chairman  of the Repatriation Commission, in the absence of the person permanently appointed to those positions. Provision is also included in the Bill to remove any doubts about the right of appeal to an Assessment Appeal Tribunal by a member of the forces of a Commonwealth country whose claim for a service pension has been refused on the ground that he is not permanently unemployable or suffering from pulmonary tuberculosis. A further provision removes the need for service pensioners aged 70 years and over to notify the Repatriation Commission of any change in their financial position. It is my pleasure,  Mr President,  to commend the Bill to the Senate. 
-The sort of problem which  Senator Keeffe  has is something which frequently afflicts readers of the  Australian  when they find articles which contradict each other on different pages. The statements about the costs of Medibank exceeding what was anticipated are completely untrue. They are arguments which are being put forward not only by the Murdoch Press but also by members of the Opposition. However, the facts contradict what they say and, contrary to their claims, medical benefits under Medibank are costing far less than the estimates which were made in the 1975-76 Budget. The estimated accumulated expenditure from 1 July 1975 to the end of September 1976 was $106m. The actual accumulated expenditure for the same period was $84m which is $22 m or nearly one-quarter less than was estimated. The number of claims under Medibank is more than the Government planned for, but despite there being more claims than we thought there would be the cost has been considerably less than we thought it would be- only about three-quarters of our estimate. This gives the lie to both the Murdoch Press and our opponents in this Parliament. 
-Yes, I have seen the letter which appeared in yesterday's  West Australian  from a  Mr Lindsay  Rosenthal who is described as the chief executive director of companies controlling 17 retail jewellery stores. He says that he has always been against centralist 
Federal Government but, owing to his unfortunate experiences with private insurance companies, is in favour of the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Corporation because of the competition which it would give.  Mr Rosenthal,  despite his previous predilections, does have a very correct appreciation of the situation. The Australian Government Insurance Corporation will give the opposition and the competition which he believes should be given and will deal with the sort of things which he raises in his letter, such as the collusion between insurance companies in the fixing of premium rates. That is one of the primary reasons that we wish to establish an Australian Government Insurance Corporation. It is to give competition in the same way as the Commonwealth Bank has given competition in the field of banking. 
It does appear that the general insurance companies have been in the habit of setting premium rates in a random manner without professional actuarial advice. Their rates are not fixed actuarially but on what they believe the market can sustain. A check of the premium rates being applied throughout Australia for common householders and home owners policies show a quite extraordinarily wide range between the different companies. There is something clearly wrong with the situation in which this takes place. A substantial proportion of the Australian insurance industry is owned overseas- some 45 per cent of the general insurance industry- and this is another reason why we should be providing the sort of competition which the Australian Government Insurance Corporation will give to the largely foreign owned general insurance companies and life assurance companies in Australia. 
-The report is only partly accurate. I have read it. An amount of $90,000 was allocated to the Australian Council of Social Service- or ACOSS, as  Senator McAuliffe  would call it- in the last Budget. An additional $60,000 has since been approved by the Treasurer to be made available to ACOSS and ACOSS has been advised of this additional grant. This means that there is a total grant to this organisation of $150,000, which is 85.2 per cent of the amount allocated to it last year. That is a reduction but, as I told the Australian Council of Social Service at its annual general meeting, we are in a period where we have to cut back on public expenditure, and the view of the Government- and it is my view- is that if we are cutting back on public expenditure in the field of social welfare it ought to be cut back on advisory bodies rather than in the actual provision of services for aged people's homes, homes for the blind and things of that nature. I think that if anybody has to take the knock, it ought to be the people who are offering the advice rather than the people who have to live in these institutions. 
Despite that fact, ACOSS will still get some 85.2 per cent of what it received last year. So far, however- and this is where the Opposition becomes responsible- a payment of only $22,500 has been made to ACOSS and no further funds can be made available to it until the Opposition passes the Appropriation Bills. So if the Australian Council of Social Service is not receiving any money at the present time, it is solely the responsibility of the Liberal and National Country Parties, and particularly of the members of those Parties who sit in this Senate. A similar report appeared in the  Sun  2 weeks ago which gave the unrevised figures. A member of my staff advised the  Sun  of the additional grant that had been given, but apparently the newspaper ignored that advice and has persisted in providing the misleading misinformation which is repeated in this morning's edition. 

 -Yes, Mr President, I have read a report in the  Sunday Telegraph  of 19 October in which the finance editor of that publication said that a national compensation scheme in Australia would contribute to financial disaster and in which he quoted what he alleged were the disastrous effects which the Accident Compensation Act had had on New Zealand. I think the information was not very well based and it would seem that he was relying upon the Australian Mutual Provident Society which is not the most unbiased commentator on these affairs. If he were to have read the annual report of the New Zealand Accident Compensation Commission for the year ended 3 1 March last I think he would have formed quite a different picture and would have realised that what the Australian Mutual Provident Society had to say was not based on fact. 
There are some differences between the accident compensation scheme in New Zealand and that which has been proposed for Australia. The New Zealand scheme is paid for by a 1 per cent levy on employers. It is in fact a funded scheme which brings with it a number of the problems which the insurance companies who are engaging in workers compensation and third party insurance are at present facing in Australia in having to provide for future payments which may be at greatly inflated rates on premiums which are paid today. Nonetheless the annual report of the Accident Compensation Commission states that the Commission sees no grounds for any immediate change in the rate of levies charged. Nonetheless despite the difficulties which there are in inflation- there is inflation in New Zealand- the financing which has been received from the 1 per cent levy on employers has proved adequate for the quite substantial scheme of accident compensation in New Zealand. Contrary to something else which was said by the  Sunday Telegraph,  namely, that the estimates in New Zealand had proved to be awry and that they had underestimated the - 
It is very easy for people to make slanderous statements about public servants. Apparently they identify public servants with this Government and believe that by slandering them they can in some way slander the Government. I am surprised that if  Mr Chipp  is aware of such incidents as these involving public servants to whom he has referred as crude, rude people in the Department of Social Security, as shadow spokesman on social security matters he did not take the matter up with me and draw my attention to these instances. I am still waiting to hear from  Mr Chipp  about any specific instance. I have not heard of any instance from him at all. In fact, it is obvious to anyone who has any knowledge of the operations of the Department of Social Security and of the very difficult field of the payment of unemployment benefits, sickness benefits and age pensions, that the public servants are working under great difficulties. They are carrying out their duties admirably. 
There is every indication that public servants in the Department will continue to work, even without pay, if the Opposition denies them their salaries as a result of the actions which it is taking in the Senate. I think it is worth while noting a report by W. D. Scott and Company Pty Ltd, which is certainly not a Labor front organisation, in its review of the Department of Social Security benefits administration in New South Wales and Victoria. The report stated: 
Generally speaking we were very impressed by both the quality and job motivations of the staff. They were serious minded career public servants very much aware of their responsibilities to the public and prepared to work very hard. They were not inclined to look for overt recognition or thanks and they were articulate in analysing their functions and responsibilities. 
I would be far more prepared to rely on an objective report by a leading firm of management consultants such as W. D. Scott &amp; Co. than on the slanders of anonymous people by  Mr Chipp. 
I was not aware that these approaches had been made. I accept that they have been; I would not be surprised if they had been made. It would be in the normal course of the Department's business. The Department is involved very substantially in the field of workers compensation, and whatever may be the fate of any proposed national compensation scheme, there is already a very substantial system of compensation in the Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Act, which is administered by the Department of Repatriation and Compensation, and in the Seamen's Compensation Act. I assume that if the officers of the Department were seeking any advice it was so that they could obtain information which might help them to administer better the workers compensation activities in which they are involved. No insurance companies are under any obligation to provide this information, and if the information is felt by the companies to be confidential then they are under no obligation to provide it to the Department. There is a quite free exchange of information between my Department and insurance companies on a number of matters. With regard to compensation for the Darwin cyclone, for example, there was quite a lot of exchange from one to the other about how that matter was progressing, and I assume that the same procedure is being adopted here. There is nothing sinister in it, and if the insurance companies do not wish to provide the information they do not have to. 
I had announced on behalf of the Government before  Mr Mcintosh  was appointed to inquire into medical practitioners' fees that the Government would abide by any recommendations which he made, and we intend to do so.  Mr Mcintosh  is a reasonable man and I have no reason to believe that the recommendation which he has made, the finding which he has brought down, is anything other than reasonable. In fact, his determination that there should be an increase of 15.6 per cent in doctors' fees over their existing charges, which would amount to a 20.5 per cent increase in toto over the past 12 months, is considerably less than the increase which was asked for by the Australian Medical Association, which was one of 39.9 per cent. In fact, it is only about half of what the doctors were asking for themselves. I do not think that it is fair or appropriate to compare the doctors' fees with wages and salaries. Doctors have to be looked at, I think, as being in the nature of small businessmen insofar as the income which they receive is a gross income and not a net income. The average general practitioner would spend something like 40 per cent to 50 per cent of his gross income on the maintenance of his office or surgery, the payment of the staff, the purchase of equipment and so on. In some instances the percentage could be greater than that. 
So I do not believe that one can regard this increase as a departure from the principles of wage indexation. The increase which has been recommended for the doctors by  Mr Mcintosh's  determination, although it exceeds the increases in the consumer price index over the past 12 months, does not exceed them so greatly as to do anything much more, I should think, than compensate for other increases in expenditure in which doctors are involved and in which the ordinary wage or salary earner would not be involved. As I have already said, in fact the increase which he has granted is only approximately half of that which the Australian Medical Association was seeking. 
I have seen the statement made by a  Mr Hunter  of an organisation with an unknown membership which is known as the Ex-services Action Association.  Mr Hunter  tends to bob up every now and again and make statements about people, including my predecessors of various political persuasions. I must confess that I am a little distressed to find that a journal such as the Adelaide  Sunday-Mail  has alleged that somehow or other I am prolonging the inquiry by  Mr Justice  Toose and delaying its conclusion. It is quite true that the inquiry was established in October 1971 by the previous Government and that upon Labor being elected in December 1972 the time was extended for  Mr Justice  Toose to complete his report.  Mr Hunter  says that secretly I have been giving additional terms of reference for  Mr Justice  Toose to inquire into. I can assure honourable senators that I have not been giving  Mr Justice  Toose anything to inquire into at all other than what was given to him by the previous Government, and 4 years - 
-No, I have not extended his terms of reference. 
-Oh, there was some small extension then, yes. But since I have been Minister there has been no extension, and the allegation is being made that I made an extension. I realise that the time taken for  Mr Justice  Toose 's inquiry and the preparation of the report has now lasted almost as long as the First World War did. I realise that the matter of repatriation is a vexed question and there are a number of matters to be looked into. But as yet the report has not been prepared. 1 am told that we can expect to see it at some time in the near future, although what precisely is meant by the near future I am not altogether clear. I know that a number of people are becoming concerned about this report. I was at the Returned Services League Congress a couple of days ago, where some concern was shown about this matter. But I am afraid there is nothing more that I can do about the matter other than to wait for  Mr Justice  Toose to present his report, which we have now been awaiting so long. 
For the information of honourable senators I present a discussion paper entitled  Provision of Health Services in the Northern Territory. 
-A study of this has been made and it shows that the number of calls to the Service is increasing. I hope to be able to make a report to the Parliament shortly on the full extent of these calls. This is one of the most valuable services that have been introduced. It gives an opportunity to a number of people, particularly migrants, to obtain information about the social services available to them in a more convenient way than was available previously. 
Pursuant to section 39 (3) of the Housing Loans Insurance Act 1965-73 I present the annual report of the 
Housing Loans Insurance Corporation for the year ended 30 June 1975 together with financial statements. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Braddon (Region No. 2) in Tasmania is within the region administered, under the Australian Assistance Plan by the North West and Western Tasmania Regional Council for Social Development. This Regional Council has access to administrative and community development officer funds, but does not yet have access to capitation funds for the support or initiation of welfare services within the region. 
Since the inauguration of the Australian Assistance Plan to 30 September 1975, the sum of $72,435 has been allocated to the region. 
The maximum estimated expenditure in 1975-76 is $88,000. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable senator to the reply provided by the Prime Minister to question number 885. Senate  Hansard  2 October 1975, (page 930). 
-As a result of that question I asked the Director-General of Social Security to try to obtain that information. He wrote to the various hospital and medical benefit funds on 10 September seeking that information. Three funds replied declining to give the information. They were the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia in New South Wales, the Hospital Contributions Fund of New South Wales and the Mutual Hospital Association of South Australia. One organisation- the Hospital Benefit Fund of Western Australia- said that the matter would be discussed at its next management committee meeting, but so far either that committee has not met or we have not been told what it decided. The other major organisation- the Hospital' Benefits Association of Victoria- has not even taken the trouble to reply. I may say that it does seem that although the salaries of the executives of the health insurance funds are paid from the contributions of their members the funds obviously are going to continue to refuse to divulge to their members what salaries are paid to those executives out of the funds that are contributed by the members. 
I am not aware of the matters that  Senator Missen  has raised. The Health Insurance Commission is an autonomous statutory commission. In any event, as I understand it, the actual leasing of office space is handled by the Department of Urban and Regional Development, at the request of the Health Insurance Commission. If  Senator Missen  puts his question on the notice paper I will obtain for him the detailed information, which does not fall within my direct ministerial responsibility. 
I have read the leading article in the Sydney  Daily Telegraph.  It is part of a continuing campaign against this Government by the Murdoch Press and its dishonest employees- people whose command of the facts is about equal to their command of the English language. The leading article which appears in this journal today referring to the proposed national compensation scheme makes a number of misstatements. It states that the cost of the scheme will be a mere $405m a year. If the writer were to read the documents which I have tabled in the Senate and the other statements which have been made he would see that that is a gross cost to be reached in some 20 years and that in fact the net cost during the first year of operation, which would not be until 1977, would be in the vicinity of $300m. The article also states: 
Like many other grandiose social welfare programs produced by  Mr Whitlam's  Government, scant attention seems to have been paid to just where the money is going to come from- 
I notice 'hear, hear', coming from  Senator Rae.  I suggest  Senator Rae  should read some of the documents that are tabled here, too. The article continues:  -something one might have thought was of prime consideration at a time when the economy is as tight as a winklepicker shoe on a policeman's foot- 
Whatever that means. That was written by one of the literateurs of the Sydney  Daily Telegraph.  The article further states: 

 Senator Wheeldon says airily that he proposes to finance the program by slapping a levy on employers and shooting up the excise duty on fuel used on the roads. 
A very detailed statement of the financial arrangements for the scheme was tabled in this Parliament and has been commented on by a number of journalists who are very superior to those employed by Murdoch. I refer honourable  senators to the  Australian Financial Review  and some other papers. The article goes on to say: 
Already the nation is being burdened with Labor's enormously expensive health and rehabilitation programs- 
Our enormously expensive rehabilitation programs! The article also refers to 'minimum income security' programs. It is said that we are being burdened with the minimum income security program when in fact all we have is an interdepartmental committee of inquiry into minimum income security. I think it is useless to go on trying to discuss such a poisonous and nonsensical article as this one which appears in the Sydney  Daily Telegraph.  All I can say is that there has been an inquiry conducted by officers of a number of departments, including the Treasury, the Taxation Office and the Department of Repatriation and Compensation. The documents have been tabled. They speak for themselves.  I  believe that anyone who is interested in this matter would be better advised to read the documents rather than the regurgitated half understanding of them which appears in Murdoch's Sydney journal. 
-I was very startled to read that the Government was trying to force money into the hands of reluctant doctors who, in fact, wanted to take less than we wished to give them. It was a departure of a most unprecedented kind. But that is not an accurate report of the proceedings. The suggestion appeared in the Melbourne  Herald  and also in the  Australian Financial Review,  although the reports quoted only the  President  of the Australian Medical Association as saying this. The articles did not tell us whether the newspapers agreed. The actual increase in fees determined by  Mr Mcintosh,  who constituted the inquiry, was 20.5 per cent on the fees determined in December 1974 and applying from 1 January 1975 to 31 December 1975. However, allowing for the 4.2 per cent increase in medical benefit fees determined by  Mr Mcintosh  in May this year and implemented with the introduction of Medibank from 1 July 1975, the percentage increase on current medical benefit fees will be 15.6 per cent. Allowing for the AMA fees at 1 January 1975, the AMA recommended increase of 12.5 per cent from 1 July 1975 and the proposed further 14 per cent increase from 1 January 1976, in fact the AMA is advocating a 39.9 per cent increase over the year. This compares with the 20.5 per cent increase which was determined by  Mr Mcintosh,  whose determination will no doubt be accepted by the Government. So, far from the Government advocating more than the Australian Medical Association has sought, in fact, what we are accepting by way of a determination from  Mr Mcintosh  is approximately half what the Australian Medical Association is asking for. 
-Senator Rae should be in a much better position than I am to answer that question. The answer is that the money will be available when the Opposition ceases what 

 Senator Wriedt has so correctly described as the Opposition 's lunatic course in opposing the appropriations of this Government. Because the Australian Government has been doubling expenditure every year on sheltered workshops a considerable contribution has been made by us to this essential social service. Because of the rate of increase the estimates which were made during the last Budget have in fact been exceeded. As is normal, we have been relying on the Treasurer's Advance in order to provide the additional funds which are necessary for such deserving sheltered workshops as the Devonfield centre in Devonport. Because we do not have a Treasurer's Advance available as a result of the obstruction by  Senator Rae  and his colleagues of the Appropriation Bills, we cannot draw on the Treasurer's Advance for the money for the Devonfield centre to carry on for the time being. I suggest that  Senator Rae  get in touch with the Devonfield centre and advise it when he will allow the Appropriation Bills to be passed by the Senate because then the Devonfield centre will receive its money. 
I can answer very easily the latter part of the question. We have been spending money on sheltered workshops at a greater rate than was anticipated. We quite readily admit that. We do not deny it for one moment. We have been engaged in very substantial expenditure on sheltered workshops. It has exceeded the moneys available to us in the last Budget for that purpose. Therefore, it was necessary to resort to the Advance to the Treasurer. It is part of the appropriations which have not been passed. I am afraid that I do not have the other figures in my head. I ask  Senator Baume  to put his question on the notice paper, and I will obtain a reply for him. 
-So far the service has been provided in 3 State capitals- Sydney, Melbourne and Perth. During the year from 1 July 1974 to 30 June 1975 there was a very great number of calls on all sorts of matters- more than 30 000 in Melbourne, approximately 22 000 in Sydney and approximately 7500 in Perth. The service has been so successful that we certainly propose to extend it as soon as the funds are made available by the Opposition in the Senate. I suppose that initially the service would need to be extended to the other State capitals- Adelaide, Brisbane and Hobart- which do not have this service. As it has been such a success, it would seem to me to be very important that provincial centres such as Geelong, Ballarat, Wollongong and Newcastle, where there are large numbers of immigrants, should have the same service provided. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the second main report of the Australian Government Commission of Inquiry into Poverty, titled  Law and Poverty in Australia.  I seek leave to make a short statement. 
Pursuant to section 32 of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission Act 1973 I present the annual report of the Hospitals and Health Services Commission for 1974-75. 
I agree with  Senator Missen  that single supporting mothers receive a greater contribution from the Australian Government than do single supporting fathers. I do not have the precise figures in my head. I also agree with  Senator Missen  that there can well be circumstances in which a single supporting father is in a more difficult position than a single supporting mother. I do believe that we ought to have as an objective the provision of a rate of benefit for single supporting parents, whether they are fathers or mothers. I think it can be said that in the Budget which is at present before the Parliament some recognition has been made of this by way of the taxation deductions which are now available to single supporting parentswhether they are fathers or mothers- and which are of quite considerable financial benefit to the single supporting fathers. 
If I may be quite frank, I would have proposed that in the context of the present Budget there ought to have been some equalisation of the position of single supporting fathers to that of single supporting mothers, but the Government felt that this was not a time for new initiatives so far as expenditure on social welfare is concerned. In this, as in so many other very deserving fields, action which we hope will be taken in the near future when we are able to take it was not taken because of the general overall economic situation. But I do agree with what  Senator Missen  has said so far as the principle of it is concerned. It is the objective of the Government, as soon as it is in a reasonable position to do it, to take the sort of steps that  Senator Missen  has suggested. 
I cannot remember giving any undertaking that I would see that a practice would stop. I think what I said at the time was that I was not even aware that the practice existed. If the practice were as I recollect that  Senator Sheil  put it- that medical practitioners were not being paid by Medibank for treating other medical practitioners, and he put it in as broad a term as that- I would regard it as being improper. I think that there are of necessity special arrangements which apply when medical practitioners are treating members of their own families or their partners. However, 1 shall obtain a more detailed answer in relation to the principles which underlie the letter from the Queensland Manager of Medibank and let  Senator Sheil  have the answer in due course. 
I have seen statements attributed to  Mr Lewis,  in the same way as I have seen statements attributed to people who are responsible for the management of State Government insurance offices and statements made by private insurers who handle both compulsory third party insurance and workers compensation insurance about the difficulties that both of those branches of general insurance are getting into. Iri a statement reported to have been made on 14 May last  Mr Lewis  said that if some sort of national compensation scheme were not passed quickly he would be obliged to make alternative arrangements within New South Wales for compulsory third party and workers compensation insurance. I am not aware of any approach which has been made by  Mr Lewis  to the Government in general or to me in particular about any assistance that could be given to him. In fact, on 19 March last I did have a meeting with all the relevant Ministers from the different States, including the New South Wales Minister, and I did receive submissions from them with regard to national compensation. 
As the honourable senator knows, the Government is now in the process of preparing a new National Rehabilitation and Compensation Bill to deal with the proposals for a national compensation scheme which will take into account most if not all of the recommendations which were made by the Senate Standing Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs. I was rather puzzled to see a report in the Sydney  Sun  on 30 October which stated that  Mr Lewis  thought that this was the wrong time to introduce such a scheme because it was so extravagant. It seemed additionally puzzling in view of the fact that  Mr Lewis's  own Government Insurance Office announced that it had lost $8m last year on workers compensation insurance and $37m on compulsory third party insurance. The net cost to employers of compulsory workers compensation and third party premiums this year is estimated to be $700m. The plateau cost of the national compensation scheme, after allowances have been made for taxation, would be only $535m. In fact, the national compensation scheme would be considerably cheaper than the scheme which is at present being operated in New South Wales by the New South Wales Government Insurance Office. I find it quite bewildering why  Mr Lewis  who has already expressed serious concern about the state of third party and workers compensation insurance in New South Wales, should be adopting this attitude towards a government which is doing something which he himself said only a few months ago was essential. 
I do not know why  Senator Jessop  should accuse the Government of engaging in scaremongering campaigns against the returned servicemen of this country. In fact, that is certainly not the attitude which the Returned Services League adopted when I was at its national congress last week. The representatives were very pleased indeed with what the Government had been doing for them since it had been in office. 
I am not trying to scare anybody. If I wanted to, I think I could scare  Senator Missen,  but I have never tried. In fact, I think a lot of people have been scaring  Senator Missen  just lately. So far as the present financial position of the Government is concerned, it is completely clear: Without the passage by the Opposition of the Appropriation Bills, a number of the most deserving people in the community are suffering. There is no way in which the Opposition can try to evade the responsibility of the consequences which their lunatic actions have produced for many of the most underprivileged people in this country. I do not know the details of the payment of nursing home accounts in South Australia, but if  Senator Jessop  will be patient for a few days I will obtain the information about the nursing homes and provide it to him. 
If I escaped  Senator Jessop  's gravamen, I can only say that it is a very easy gravamen to escape. I will consider what he has put forward and see if the appropriate course to follow would be that which he has suggested. I will let him know in due course. 
It is true that the supplementary hospital insurance tables which have been offered by the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Ltd. as ancillary to the Medibank hospital agreement in New South Wales have been rejected by the Government. They have not been rejected arbitrarily if by 'arbitrarily' one means acting just out of the blue in rejecting propositions without there being some principles on which they are rejected. In fact, these tables have been rejected because they do not comply with the specific guidelines which have been set down for the approval of such ancillary health insurance which the private funds can offer. The Government has an obligation under the National Health Act to protect the contributors to these private funds. That obligation is specifically made clear in the National Health Act. The guidelines have made clear to funds how they can change their rules so that new tables can be offered in order to provide the additional or fringe benefits. 
The proposed table of the Medical Benefits Fund lists a wide range of expenses which the Fund claims are associated with the hospitalisation of people who go into a private hospital. This was one of the matters which particularly attracted our attention. We do not think that on the propositions that the Fund has put forward it is likely there would be any surplus, after the private hospital daily bed charges in New South Wales had been met, for moneys to be available, firstly, to provide some of the additional benefits which the Fund claims it can make available. Secondly, we have some objection to the manner in which the Fund has asked for a contribution of $1.86 a family for the theatre fees in private hospitals. Other funds have included the payment of theatre fees in private hospitals amongst the general ancillary payments which are asked for if one takes out additional insurance with those funds. 
In addition to that, the Medical Benefits Fund wishes to make provision for sickness benefits which go beyond the normal provision of hospital and medical expenses which are covered by Medibank and which it is intended should be covered by the funds in their ancillary arrangements which they propose to make through their private subscribers. The provision of sickness benefits is not a proper matter for funds of this type. There is nothing wrong with people taking out sickness benefit insurance, but it ought to be done through an ordinary private insurer and not through a hospital or medical benefits fund. The guidelines and the reasons why the Government insisted on these guidelines were contained in 2 circulars which were forwarded to all of the registered hospital benefit organisations in New South Wales on 13 August and 19 September last. The Medical Benefits Fund is the only fund whose proposals have been rejected. All the other funds have complied with the guidelines of the Government under the National Health Act. 
I do not know whether there are statistics in the sense that a systematic analysis of this proposition has been done, but certainly the proposition has been put to me that former prisoners of war, particularly prisoners of war of the Japanese, are susceptible to arthritis. I think this may well be the case. I will take up  Senator Bessell  's suggestion and ask that some investigation be made into this matter with a view to giving consideration to his proposition. 
I think it should be remembered that the Government, in the 1974-75 Budget, provided for all hospital and medical expenses of former prisoners of war to be met as part of the repatriation entitlement of these returned servicemen. To a certain extent, that provision has lost some of its relevance since the introduction of Medibank. I can well appreciate that there are a number of particular problems from which former prisoners of war are suffering. Arthritis could well be one of them. I believe it is a proper matter for study by the relevant officers of my Department. 
I am aware, as I think everybody is, that private insurers are getting out of the compulsory third party insurance field as fast as their legs will carry them. In a number of States they have completely abandoned the field to the State government insurance offices and, having abandoned this unprofitable field to the State government insurance offices, have drawn attention to the losses which the State government insurance offices have made in a field in which they will not work themselves and have used this as an argument against State enterprises. In Tasmania, where, I think,  Senator Devitt's  episodes have taken place, a number of private insurers still engage in compulsory third party insurance; but as they are on a losing proposition and, I think, all acknowledge this, they have tried to protect themselves a little by asking people who wish to take out compulsory third party insurance with them to take out all their other insurance with them as well. Whether this is a breach of the Trade Practices Act I do not know; that would be a question for the Attorney-General. 
If I could have evidence of the particular incidents to which  Senator Devitt  refers, I will pass it on to the Attorney-General for an opinion. The only alternative available to the motorist who has been denied third party insurance by the private insurers or has been faced with an ultimatum that he will not get third party insurance cover unless he takes out all his other insurance with them is to transfer his business to the State government insurance office in the State in which he lives or, better still, to wait a few months until the Australian Government Insurance Corporation has been established and take out all his business with it. 

 - Mr President, I am opposing the motion. As  Senator Withers  has reminded us, we both used to practise in various courts of petty sessions in Western Australia. I think that both of us know from our experience there that it is a quite strict rule of legal practice that one does not accept secondary evidence by way of affidavits or declarations when there is available a witness who can give evidence on which he can be examined or examined. 
-One of the advantages that I had when I was in practice was that I was not a senior counsel and I did not have the assistance of others when I was addressing the Bench. The opportunity was open to the Opposition last week to call  Mr Khemlani  before the Bar of the Senate to explain whatever it was that he had to tell us.  Mr Khemlani  was not called, despite the fact that the Government made it quite clear that in no way would we prevent  Mr Khemlani  from coming before the Senate and giving to the Senate evidence on which he could be examined by those who called him and crossexamined by those who did not call him- if examined' and 'cross-examined' are proper terms to use in regard to a senatorial inquiry. The opportunity was not taken by the Opposition to call  Mr Khemlani;  nor was the opportunity taken to call  Mr Crawford  who, apparently, also has made a statutory declaration. I am informed that  Mr Crawford  is a much more interesting person than  Senator Withers  in his modest manner has let us know.  Mr Crawford  apparently is prominent in  Scientology  circles. He is a man of many parts. He once conducted a pirate radio station in Great Britain. One of his financial ventures, which was of quite some interest to those who participated in it, was the selling of tickets for the first flight to the moon which, apparently, some people in the United States of America agreed to buy. 
-Mr Crawford, whose name also has been mentioned. He is an expatriate Australian. He also was back in Australia during the past week.  Mr Crawford,  who was the seller of tickets for the first flight to the moon, also would have been available. In the same way as the Government was quite agreeable to having  Mr Khemlani  called before the Senate, if  Senator Withers  had made some contact either on a national or other level with  Mr Crawford,  I can assure  Senator Withers  that the Government would not have objected to  Mr Crawford  being called to say a few words, even if they were words by way of hearsay, on the subject which seems to have agitated him. 
I am not suggesting anything, but I think it is possible that something like that happened somewhere along the line. Yes, I think that that may well be the case. I know that the Senate is not a court, but I hope that those lawyers who sit on the Opposition side of the Senate will remember the days when they were in practice and remember that the rules about the calling of witnesses are not there just because of some quirk in the minds of the judiciary or because of some strange archaic practice which has not yet gone out of fashion. They are there for very good reasons. It is a very soundly established principle that one does not accept evidence by way of affidavit or declaration when the witness himself is available to give oral evidence on which he can be examined or cross-examined. I believe that this shows that what the Opposition is trying to do, what  Senator Withers  is trying to do with regard to the tabling of these documents, is completely bogus. If the Opposition had really wanted the people to know what  Mr Khemlani  and his colleague  Mr Crawford  knew about this matter, if it really felt that  Mr Khemlani  and  Mr Crawford  had some useful information which would illuminate a topic which seems to have become rather murky with the passage of time, it had the opportunity last week to call them before the Senate. 
What is the purpose of tabling these declarations at present? If they are matters of which the Senate ought to be apprised, if they are matters about which the Parliament ought to be fully informed, then clearly the people who have made the statutory declarations ought to be called before the Bar of the Senate, as we agreed to have them before the Bar of the Senate. Apparently they wanted to come.  Mr Khemlani  said that he was waiting anxiously for advice from  Senator Withers, Mr Lynch  or whoever it was so that he could come before us and tell us his story. He did not come forward, and he did not come forward because he was not called by the Opposition. If they are not matters which are properly the subject of the Senate's attention, the Opposition should not be cluttering up the business of the Senate, it should not be cluttering up the Senate  Hansard  with these voluminous documents which  Senator Withers  has now prepared. 
If these matters are or could be, defamatory, it is quite improper that the Opposition should attempt to circumvent the laws of defamation by allowing these statements by  Mr Khemlani  and  Mr Crawford  to be admitted in this way so that full Press, radio and television publicity can be given to them, but without the authors of the declarations being in any way subject to any of the laws relating to defamation. If the Opposition believes that these documents stand on their own feet, if it is prepared to defend what is within these documents, there is nothing to stop it calling a Press conference, issuing a statement, writing a letter to the editor of a newspaper or in some other way having the documents published but without hiding behind parliamentary privilege, which is what the Opposition is doing at present. 
This is a completely improper practice. It is a practice which the Government does not intend to condone. If the Opposition by the use of numbers is able to make a mockery of the Senate in this way, then it is a misuse of proper parliamentary procedures. Already the Opposition has had the opportunity to examine these documents.  Senator Withers  has said that these declarations apparently show that  Mr Whitlam  was aware of some subsequent negotiations with  Mr Khemlani,  but then we find that none other than the former Solicitor-General, who now has rather sunk from grace as a back bench Liberal member of Parliament, has examined the documents which  Mr Khemlani  and I presume his colleague  Mr Crawford  had, but certainly the documents that  Mr Khemlani  had. As a result of his examination of the documents,  Mr Ellicott  said that there was no evidence whatsoever to link the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  with any of these alleged negotiations. Surely that is sufficient. Why do Opposition senators want to repudiate the advice of  Mr Ellicott  in the same way as they themselves have repudiated  Mr Ellicott?  This is an improper practice, and the Government opposes the tabling of these statutory declarations. If people want to make these statements, let them make them outside the Parliament where they are not protected by parliamentary privilege; or alternatively let them come into the Senate- the Government agreed to allow  Mr Khemlani  to come into the Senate- so we can cross-examine them on these matters and so that we can test whether they are telling the truth or whether they are telling falsehoods. 
A Document quoted from by a  Senator not  a Minister of the Crown may be ordered by the Senate to be laid upon the Table; 
A request was made to have the document laid upon the table, but permission to do so was refused. The Senate has the right to order that a document be laid upon the table- we agree on that much- and  Senator Chaney  moved accordingly. I would question the right of any honourable senator to move a motion without obtaining the permission of the Senate to move it. 
A Document quoted from by a  Senator not  a Minister of the Crown may be ordered by the Senate to be laid upon the Table; such Order may be made without notice immediately upon the conclusion of the speech of the  Senator who  has quoted therefrom. 
I cannot see that there has been any departure from that standing order and the matter is in order. 
When I first expected to speak to this motion I thought I would follow  Senator Withers.  Although I do follow him, a number of other people have intruded between us. We have had a quite interesting symposium on the law of evidence, which I would not wish to try to recapitulate at this stage. 
-Yes, I was. It is kind of the honourable senator to say so. There are other matters concerning us. One is the matter which is now before the Senate, and that is the restoration of the Appropriation Bills to the notice paper. The situation in which we now find ourselves would not have arisen if it had not been for the lunatic course upon which the Opposition set itself, namely, to try, for the second time within 2 years, to destroy a government which was elected for the first time less than 3 years ago. 

 -Senator Greenwood said that members of the Opposition do not destroy governments. I think that between the lot of them they destroyed the Gorton Government and the McMahon Government which preceded us, and they destroyed those governments quite admirably. Not only do they destroy governments but they destroy Leaders of the Opposition. We saw only recently the destruction of  Mr Snedden  after we had an undertaking that  Senator Greenwood  would walk on hot coals through the Valley of Death on  Mr Snedden  's behalf. In fact they tried to destroy the Government in May 1974, but the people would not accept their offer. The Government was returned in May 1974. Since then we have tried to carry out the policy on which we were elected. We have carried out that policy to a very large extent. The Opposition does not like that policy. For that reason it is hellbent on destroying the Government which the Australian people elected by overwhelming majorities in 1 972 and 1 974. 
The Opposition is using its majority in the Senate. At the last Senate election in 1974 the Australian Labor Party gained approximately 200 000 more votes than the Liberal and Country parties senators who sit opposite us. Opposition senators have not been prepared to come out openly and reject the Budget. They have tried to use a subterfuge by moving a motion which is similar in effect to a motion which they moved last year and which we acted upon at that time. It is a motion to the effect that the Senate should withhold supply until such time as the Government has agreed to hold an election. 
As a number of senators on this side of the chamber have pointed out, that motion would not have been carried had not the Premier of Queensland acted completely contrary to all convention, to all decency and to all established practice. When the late  Senator Milliner  died the Premier of Queensland appointed to fill his position a person who was not a member of the Australian Labor Party in contravention of the practice which has always been religiously followed by Labor governments. 
Only a couple of years ago when the former  Senator Prowse  retired from the Senate shortly before his term of office was due to expire, the Labor Government of Western Australia appointed a gentleman by the name of Reid to fill the position for a short time. He was known as Easy come easy go Reid'. He became a senator before the next Senate election was due. As it happened, he was caught up in the thralls of the double dissolution and we lost him. But  Senator Reid  was appointed here, obtaining an advantage -by not having to stand for election. It was quite obvious what the Country Party was doing in artificially inducing not a birth but a departurein this case that of  Senator Prowse-  in order to replace him with former  Senator Reid.  Despite that fact, because a Country Party senator had retired the Tonkin Labor Government in Western Australia had no hesitation in appointing a Country Party senator to replace him. Had that been done here; had the same decency been shown by  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  as was shown by  Mr Tonkin;  had the same respect for democratic traditions and conventions been shown by  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  as was shown by  Mr Tonkin  when  Mr Tonkin  had much more reason not to follow the conventions because it was quite obviously a ploy that was being followed by the Country Party whereas in fact our former colleague,  Senator Milliner,  died while he was in office; and had  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  followed tradition, the Opposition would not have had the majority to enable them to carry a resolution that the Budget be deferred until such time as we had undertaken to hold this election. 
I think that tells us volumes of the character of the people who sit opposite and it tells us volumes also about those people within the Opposition who say that they would not vote to reject a Budget. When they say that they are speaking with a forked tongue because they know very well that the resolution which has been voted on here was a resolution which would not have been carried had proper procedures been followed. The resolution was tantamount to the rejection of the Budget. The Opposition says to us: 'Why do you not go to the people? Why do we not have an election?' We have an answer to this- a reasonable answer and an answer which is accepted by an overwhelming majority of the Australian people. It is that if a government is elected for a 3-year term it is completely improper and completely undemocratic that an undemocratically constituted Upper House should be able to pick the time for that government to go to an election. It is completely improper because all of us ought to know, even if we do not know, that at the present time the whole of the world is involved in an economic crisis and that all governments become unpopular during a period of economic crisis. 
Everyone remembers the Great Depression which extended from 1929 into the 1930s. Every government in Australia which was in office in 1929 was defeated. A Federal Labor government was defeated, a State Labor government in Victoria was defeated, a State Nationalist Government in Queensland was defeated. In every State in Australia whoever was in office of whatever party went out of office. They went out of office because of the unpopularity that comes from being in government when there is a recession. If a government has a Senate which rejects its legislation- if a government faces the circumstances that we have faced while we have been in government- it is almost impossible for a government to introduce the legislation and to carry out the programs which are necessary in order to combat this great depression. There is a depression. I do not believe it is any exaggeration, when one sees the level of unemployment and the level of inflation in the advanced capitalist countries throughout the world, to say that there is a depression. Although this depression is taking a different form from that which the last great depression took, on this occasion we have inflation instead of the deflation which accompanied the previous depression. But it is a depression and it requires measures which must, for the time being, be unpalatable. Even if the Opposition were in government whatever it did would be unpalatable to many Australian people. So unpatriotic are our opponents that they take advantage of this situation to create economic chaos throughout the country so they can move across to the right hand side of the Senate and the House of Representatives and once again be a government which can again pursue the policies which proved so disastrous to this country during the 23 years for which they were last in office. 
The members of the Opposition have said that the Budget which has been introduced by this Government ought to be condemned. They have said that the Budget ought to be rejected. They have even said that the Budget has failed. How they can tell that a Budget has failed when the Budget has not even been passed and has not even been given an opportunity to be seen in action by the people is a mystery which defies the most vivid imagination. That is what members of the Opposition have said. They have said there is a great crisis which must be solved- a crisis relating to  Mr Khemlani  about whom we have heard so much this afternoon and about whom I would not want to weary the Senate by referring to him at any greater length. We have heard so much about  Mr Khemlani. 
-I can only say to  Senator Durack  that if we are going to hear more about  Mr Khemlani  I wish we had heard a little more of  Mr Khemlani. Mr Khemlani  was in Canberra all last week.  Senator Durack  's leader made a number of statements to the effect that  Mr Khemlani  would be coming before the Bar of the Senate to give evidence. We know what happened with that. Despite the fact that the time of his permit to stay in Australia was extended by the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland),  despite the fact that the Opposition parties knew that he would not be here this week and he was here last week, despite the fact that they said he had all these illuminating observations to make to us and that he had the good oil which he was going to give to us, and despite the fact that members of the Opposition spent hours with  Mr Khemlani  and his solicitor,  Mr Khemlani  has not appeared before the Senate. If  Mr Khemlani  has a well filled visa page in his passport, the passports of some of the members of the staff of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in another place  (Mr Lynch)  must be almost as well filled as those of  Mr Khemlani. 
-Yes, they are the poor man's James Bond, as  Senator Mulvihill  so colourfully puts it. Their peregrinations backwards and forwards from here to London to Zurich were certainly sufficient to obtain any information they needed. But in fact when  Mr Ellicott-  unlike  Senator Durack, Senator Withers  and me, he is a Queen 's Counsel, one of  Her  Majesty's counsel learned in the law and a former Solicitor-General- went to Sydney to peruse all these documents which filled 8 suitcases with the assistance of a solicitor of the Supreme Court of New South Wales who so far has preserved his taciturnity on this subject, what did  Mr Ellicott,  Q.C., M.P., have to tell us? He told us that there was nothing there which in any way would implicate the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  If there had been anything to  implicate anybody else, if not the Prime Minister, I am sure we would have heard from  Mr Ellicott. 
Well, directly. If there had been something which implicated the Prime Minister or anyone else indirectly, I think we would ha.ve heard all about it. If  Mr Ellicott  had found anything there that could have linked  Mr Whitlam  or anybody else directly or indirectly I do not think that he would have preserved this maidenly silence on the subject. I think we might have heard from him today, for example, in the House of Representatives. Have we heard anything from  Mr Ellicott,  Q.C., or his instructing solicitor,  Mr Howard?  No, we have heard not a word from either of them of any evidence which would implicate anybody directly or indirectly, as  Senator Durack  reminds me, on this topic. This is such a gripping matter that I feel it would be a pity to rush it. I think that the things which I will be revealing here during the course of this debate will be so exciting that it would be a pity to cramp them in any manner whatsoever. I  therefore seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. If the honourable senator wishes to examine the new quidelines 1 will arrange for a copy to be made available. 
The guidelines, which were agreed at the 1974 Australian Health Ministers' Conference, came into force on 1 September 1975 for advertisements submitted on or after that date. 
The National Medical Media Council was not consulted about these specific requirements since its activities are not directed at radio and television advertising. The Council is concerned only with advertisements for therapeutic goods directed to medical practitioners in the publications of its member organisations. However, consultation took place with the representatives of all organisations whose members were likely to be affected by the new requirements in I heir commercial or professional activities. 
Not necessarily with each advertisement, but any information included must be factual. However, the requirements do involve the obligatory inclusion of some, but not a large amount, of factual material in all advertisements containing analgesic drugs such as aspirin, phenacetin and paracetamol. 
I am not aware of the amount of any extra cost involved. If additional cost is likely to be incurred by including obligatory information in advertisements relating to therapeutic goods this will hopefully encourage the advertising and pharmaceutical industries to make equivalent savings by deleting or reducing the amount of irrelevant material displayed in many current advertisements on radio and television. 
The Minister for Health has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's questions: 
) As recently indicated in my reply to a similar question (No. 1449, House of Representatives Hansard page 1747, 16 April 1 975) I am reluctant to authorise the time which would be involved in obtaining information regarding voluntary organisations which have unsuccessfully requested financial assistance for the establishment or maintenance of national headquarters. Applications for financial assistance under the Community Health Program, which now encompasses the earlier Community Mental Health, Alcoholism and Drug Dependency Program, are not recorded with specific reference to the nature of the project for which funding is sought. With reference to the Australian Government's Community Health Program and the earlier Community Mental Health, Alcoholism and Drug Dependency Program, voluntary organisations which have been allocated grants for the establishment or maintenance of a national headquarters are detailed at (2) below. 
(2)- 
-Last week I tabled the reports of the working parties which had been studying various aspects of the proposed national rehabilitation and compensation scheme. One of the matters which was dealt with very thoroughly in those reports was the proposed financing of the scheme. The working parties recommended that the existing compulsory workers compensation insurance premiums and the compulsory third party motor vehicle insurance premiums be abolished and replaced. They recommended a new levy on employers to replace workers compensation insurance and that motorists or owners of motor vehicles pay an impost on the price of petrol to replace the third party motor vehicle insurance premiums. If one studies the documents which were tabled it emerges that certain people living in country areas would not have the same relative advantages which they now have in respect of motor vehicle insurance when compared with people living in the cities. Nonetheless they will be better off than they are now. If one compares the rates of third party motor vehicle insurance premiums in the country with those that are payable in the city it will be found that there will be some people who will not benefit from the proposal but they will be very few, a microscopic percentage of the total. 
Certainly the overwhelming majority of people in the country, although the relative position with regard to city motor vehicle users will not be preserved, will be considerably better off than they are now. That is to say, farmers living in an isolated area and running a car or a truck, as a result of a 5c or 6c levy per gallon of petrol will be paying considerably less than they are paying now, in almost every instance, for compulsory third party motor vehicle insurance. When one adds these facts to the lack of administrative expenses which are involved in a levy, which is a much more simple matter than the imposition of the compulsory third party motor vehicle insurance, I think it will be found that almost every farmer and almost every resident of an isolated area will be financially better off than he is at the present time. 
I have seen the reported statement of  Mr McNicol,  who is the  President  of the Handicapped Citizens' Association of the ACT, in which he points out the plight of the sheltered workshops which are associated with his Association and in which he calls on the Opposition to pass the Budget. The position at the present time is that the Department of Social Security needs about $ 1 3 m by the end of this month to meet its commitments for subsidies for aged persons' homes, aged persons' hostels and for what  Mr McNicol  would be particularly concerned about- sheltered workshops and accommodation for handicapped people, also accommodation and services for homeless people. I have made a request to the Treasury for an immediate $6m and another $7m within 2 weeks. If the Treasurer is able to make this available it would cover the situation until the end of this month but not beyond the end of this month. 
The money is needed to meet claims from the organisations which have entered into commitments following approval of their projects for subsidy. Many of the projects involve the building of new accommodation or facilities for people who are aged, homeless or handicapped. A review of the claims lodged by the organisations 2 weeks ago showed that the Department of Social Security could meet only half of the claims which had been received at that time. The $2!6m that was then available has been spread among the organisations on the most equitable basis possible, although of course this does mean that a number of the organisations are not receiving anything and that some of them are receiving much less than they would normally expect to receive. Advice from the Treasury as to whether it can make these additional funds available is expected this week. In normal circumstances, if it had not been for the action of the Opposition, there would have been no delays in providing for these funds. 
I am not quite clear what  Senator Maunsell  means by his question. Certainly there would be no conflict between any benefits which were obtainable by people who suffered an injury or were born with a congenital disability after the date on which the new Act came into effect and in no way would it preclude any persons from receiving any repatriation entitlements which they are receiving now. Once the national compensation scheme is established there probably will need to be another look at the repatriation system in its entirety. As the previous Government acknowledged, there has been a necessity for some reassessment of the whole repatriation system which was why  Mr Justice  Toose was appointed some years ago to inquire into this matter. No doubt in due course we will hear what  Mr Justice  Toose suggests. As the Woodhouse Committee of Inquiry, which was appointed after  Mr Justice  Toose was appointed, has brought down its report; the report has been debated; a Bill has been presented to the Parliament; the Senate committee of inquiry has been held; and another Bill is being prepared for presentation to the Parliament, I dare say  Mr Justice  Toose has been able to find time to look at the possible impact which a national compensation scheme would have on the repatriation system. 
One of the possible anomalies which was drawn to my attention when I was at the National Congress of the Returned Servicemen's League last week was that people who were injured in the future- for example, if somebody became totally incapacitated- could well receive benefits in excess of the present totally and permanently incapacitated pension which is payable to incapacitated ex-servicemen. That anomaly, if it is an anomaly, would arise from that fact that T &amp; PI servicemen are people who would have been injured before the date on which the National Rehabilitation and Compensation Act came into effect. It would seem to me that if there were to be some additional benefit given to veterans who are totally and permanently incapacitated this would involve some amendments to the Repatriation Act rather than any provision being made within the national compensation scheme itself and that is why it is important that we learn as quickly as possible what proposals  Mr Justice  Toose has. One of the reasons it is proposed that the National Rehabilitation and Compensation Act- I am assuming that it will become an Act in one form or another- would not come into effect until 1 July 1977 would be to give the Parliament sufficient time to look at the repatriation laws and make any amendments so that veterans who are disabled would not be relatively disadvantaged as compared with civilians. 
-Senator Marriott was good enough to let me know that he would be asking this question. As the honourable senator has said, the answer to which he has referred was given by  Mr Stewart  in the House of Representatives. In fact, I think that a similar answer was given by me in the Senate to a similar question. The building at 77 Collins Street, Hobart, which is occupied by the Health Insurance Commission Medibank- is owned by the Australian Government. It is not the property of the Health Insurance Commission. There is an annual rental of $62,000. This was previously payable to the Department of Services and Property whose role in this area has now been assumed by the Department of Urban and Regional Development. The Health Insurance Commission has shown some interest in buying this building. In order to see whether some successful negotiations can be made on this matter I have written to the relevant Minister proposing purchase of the premises during the next financial year and a reduced rental during the interim period. As at this stage, the premises are not owned by the Health Insurance Commission. They are rented by the Health Insurance Commission from the Australian Government. 
I have seen the reports of the increase in premiums for compulsory third party insurance in Tasmania, a State which had the record of having the lowest third party insurance premiums in Australia. The increase follows very closely upon an increase of, I think, over 50 per cent in compulsory third party insurance premiums in Western Australia, another State which had a relatively good record compared with a number of the eastern States, apart from Tasmania, so far as these premiums are concerned. This is a pattern which is being found throughout both of the major fields of compulsory insurance- third party motor vehicle insurance and workers compensation insurance -both of which have reached an almost desperate level. In fact, so far as workers compensation insurance is concerned, a number of enterprises have contemplated closing down because they are unable to afford to pay the premiums. The pattern is marked in both of these fields. 
I would agree with the proposition put forward by  Senator Everett  that there has to be some radical change in the basis of compulsory insurance for personal injury which is found at present in motor vehicle third party insurance and workers' compensation insurance. I believe . that Australia is faced with a position that in the very near future there is likely to be a collapse of both of these systems and it is essential that they should be replaced by some more rational system. In fact, earlier this year,  Mr Lewis,  the Premier of New South Wales, although subsequently he seems to have changed his mind, called for some sort of national compensation scheme to get his Government Insurance Office out of the difficulties it was in with workers compensation insurance. I believe that the proposed national rehabilitation and compensation scheme is the most proper and suitable means of overcoming the ever-increasing difficulties of insurers throughout Australia in both of these fields, which are of vital importance to all Australian people. 
-The Department of Social Security has been aware of the problems which  Senator Sackville  has illuminated. He has been much more aware of them than many of us were previously. 
-Professor Sackville, I am sorry. I apologise to him. One thing we have been doing is dealing with the matter of printed publicity. 
I suppose he is sort of between a senator and a Minister. The Department has been preparing pamphlets and booklets and publishing advertisements in the various foreign language publications, of which there are now quite a lot in Australia. Seven publications in 1 5 different languages used by immigrants in Australia are now in the course of production. As well as that we have introduced the system of having welfare rights officers whose role is to spread as far as possible amongst all residents, including those people who do not speak English, advice as to their rights under the various social welfare laws of Australia. Something which has been extremely successful has been the telephone interpreter service, which is now operating in Sydney, Melbourne and Perth, lt operates 7 days a week. Services are given in over 100 languages and dialects and I think, as I have been able to inform the Senate in previous answers, the service has been used very widely by people in those cities where the telephone interpreter service has already been established. We hope to be able to extend the telephone interpreter service to the other State capitals and also to various provincial cities. 
I think it is worth commenting on the fact that Professor Henderson did say in his report that steps have already been taken by some administrationsnotably the Department of Social Security and the Department of Labor and Immigration- to disseminate literature and to advertise through the Press, radio and television in Australia in. order to sell social services to the public through a wide range of media and to ensure that people know of their entitlements and where to get further information when they need to do so. Despite those kind words from Professor Sackville I do not believe that anything like sufficient has been done. This Government does believe that we should have a plural society and what we have done already we admit to be only the first step towards seeing that all of those people who live in this country will be entitled to the rights to which they should be entitled, will be able to receive assistance to which they are entitled and will be able to understand what they are being told through being able to deal with officers who can speak the languages that are of the countries of their origin. 

 - Mr President, the debate on this matter yesterday was rather enlivened by the presentation of some statutory declarations to the Senate by  Senator Withers.  The honourable senator very carefully said that he did not vouch for the truth or for the falsehood- although it may have been easier to do the latter rather than the former- of the matters contained in those declarations. It seems, from reading the Press, as one of my colleagues has pointed out, that the declarations have been written off like a bad debt. They follow an endless sequence of manoeuvres which the Opposition has pursued in order to remove a democratically elected Government from office. Ever since we have been in office we have been told- we have been well aware of it- that we are under threat. Owing to manoeuvres which have taken place outside the Senate even the original number of 29 honourable senators which we had following the election and which we gained owing to the idiosyncrasies of the electoral laws of this country has been reduced. Although in the last Senate election we polled some 200 000 votes more than our opposing parties, we received less than a majority in this place. We have been in the position of not being able to carry out government; we have had office but we have not had government. We have not been able to pursue many of the programs on which we were elected and for which the Australian people voted for us. 
Despite that the Opposition parties have been determined to see that this Government will not even remain in office. Those efforts reached their culmination last year when the Opposition forced a double dissolution of both Houses of the Australian Parliament which resulted in a repudiation by the Australian people of the tactics which the Liberal and Country Parties followed and the return of this Government to office for a second time within 1 8 months. Now the Opposition is pursuing the same tactics. Even the gallup polls which are published in the Sydney  Bulletin,  which seem notoriously to show a certain bias, whether intentional or otherwise, against the Australian Labor Party, indicate that the percentage of the Australian people who are supporting this Government is galloping ahead while the percentage of the Australian people who support the defunct parties which sit opposite us is falling like the leaves of autumn. 
Along with that we see the most curious of all events. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  having achieved that high office only recently, now has the approval of only 29 per cent of the Australian people. Here is somebody who has been elected to the leadership of the Liberal Party- admittedly he has attained that high office by stepping over innumerable corpses- coming into that position at a time when there is a world-wide economic recession and when there is inflation and unemployment in this country. There is every reason why even the most popular and the most efficient government should be held in some sort of disrepute, as has been shown in the case of the Government of Helmut Schmidt, for example, in West Germany. There would be no more efficient, no more dedicated government in the world, but even it has been suffering defeats in various provincial elections and by-elections which have been held in that country and which followed of necessity from the dissatisfaction which people feel when there are inflation and unemployment. They naturally blame the government rather than blame the system which has created that state of affairs. 
But despite having all of those things going for him, despite the fact that he had a honeymoon period as Leader of the Opposition- one would think that he would still be enjoying that nuptial bliss- we find that the Leader of the Opposition has fallen to a record low of approval at 29 per cent. Why have his stocks so declined? Why have the stocks of the Opposition parties so declined? They have declined because the Australian people realise that so enthusiastic, so neglectful, and so insensitive is the Opposition to the feelings of the Australian people and the democratically expressed will of the overwhelming majority of the Australian people that it is prepared to come at anything in order to get back on to the Treasury bench. 
Since we have been in office we have been told about an endless series of scandals. Before the last double dissolution we heard about the Gair affair. The unfortunate former senator Gair was once the toast of Toorak. I do not think they would ever actually invite him to dinner; they might have had a shock if they did. But he was the toast of those people because he, along with his colleagues in the Democratic Labor Party, kept them in office for many years and gave them their majority in the Senate. No sooner was he appointed to an office representing this country in the Republic of Ireland, a country for which I feel the greatest affection, than  Senator Gair  was immediately wiped off by the Opposition. The Opposition said that the appointment of this man, whom it had revered and at whose feet it had sat for so many years receiving sage words of advice, was a scandalous one and that  Senator Gair  should never have been sent to represent this country abroad, whereas it was quite happy to allow  Senator Gair  to exercise quite inordinate influence in the conduct of the affairs of this country. 
Then we have the so-called loans affair, which is one of the most involved, complex and confusing matters which has ever afflicted this Parliament. The confusion has largely come from the fact that it has been almost impossible to work out what it is that the Opposition has been saying. It has said a great many things and it has said them over and over again. Sometimes it has varied them and sometimes it has changed them. A photocopy of the passport of  Mr Khemlani  has been produced to the Senate. He seems to have been coming and going with remarkable rapidity. He would seem to be the Urdu version of the Flying Dutchman. But his travels, his peregrinations, it would seem, would not be very much greater than those of the members of the staff of  Mr Lynch  and of  Mr Lynch  himself. They have also been travelling backwards and forwards advising us in a manner reminiscent of the end of an episode of one of those serials which used to be shown at the Saturday afternoon matinees and which I attended as an unathletic adolescent. Here is the hero in danger but will he be snatched from disaster? The Opposition has kept on warning us of revelations to come but so far we have received no revelations. Although the scandal is apparently still going on, the Opposition has decided to change the scandal. 
For a while it was the ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd scandal. The ACTU-Solo scandal seems to have been a very unscandalous scandal because we have not heard much about that recently.  Senator Greenwood  made various representations to a royal commission. With what effect he did so, one does not know. Then there was another alleged scandal that  Mr Hayden  had given some information of a confidential nature to  Mr Hawke,  the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. That was a very sensible step towards achieving the co-operation of the trade union movement. He provided that information in the same way as he provided certain information to various State Premiers, including quite bitter opponents of this Government such as  Mr Bjelke-Petersen.  That was an issue for a few days, but the Opposition seems to have dropped the discussion which took place between  Mr Hayden  and  Mr Hawke. 
Then only last week  Mr Khemlani  returned and made a sort of a Dick Tracy foray into the national capital, flitting from hotel to motel accompanied by his legal adviser and 8 suitcases full of documents which were perused by various eminent legal men who belong to the Opposition parties. As a result of wading through all of those documents the unfortunate  Mr Ellicott  Q.C., who must well regret the day that he took down his shingle and came into this place, said that there was nothing which seemed to involve the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in any of this affair. He was then brought down to Canberra and given additional riding instructions. He then said that maybe there was and maybe there was not.  His  taciturn solicitor colleague,  Mr Howard,  who was apparently instructing him on these matters, has preserved a manly silence throughout. I think that nothing more whatsoever has been heard from  Mr Howard  who also had the painful task of sifting through these 8 suitcases full of documents. 
As a result of all that we were presented yesterday with a stack of statutory declarations. One was from a very colourful and picturesque figure, a  Mr Alan  James Crawford. Most of the characters who seem to have been involved in this episode have had rather chequered careers, to put it mildly.  Mr Crawford,  it may well be remembered, is a very versatile person. He conducted a pirate radio station in England. He was prominent in scientological circles. In addition to that, one of his more significant coups in the world of business was to sell to certain unsuspecting Americans tickets for the first flight to the moon. I think that the statutory declaration which he gave to  Senator Withers  and which was tabled yesterday would have about as much redeemable value as a ticket on the first flight to the moon. From a perusal of the statutory declaration which  Mr Crawford  has allowed us to read one finds that very little light is shed on anything in particular. In fact, one would only be more confused than ever if one were to read it all. 
However, there is a declaration from  Mr Khemlani.  I had often thought that there was very little in this talk about the inscrutible orient, but there are inscrutible oriental statutory declarations because it is very hard indeed to follow what point  Mr Khemlani  is trying to make other than that something was up somewhere. He goes on at considerable length about telexes which have been passing backwards and forwards between all sorts of people, and about mysterious meetings in the middle of the night with high government officials.  Mr Karidis,  who so distinguished himself before this chamber only a few months ago and who apparently was present with  Mr Khemlani  when this mysterious nocturnal meeting took place, informs us that what  Mr Khemlani  tells us is not true.  Mr Khemlani  has left the country, but he does say some interesting things in his declaration. One thing particularly attracted my attention. My attention was attracted to page 56 of the statutory declaration by  Mr Khemlani  because it would seem from reading that page that some Ministers receive preferential treatment over others.  Mr Khemlani  referred to a conversation which he alleges he was having with  Mr Connor.  Let me quote first from paragraph 160 on page 55 of the statutory declaration. I would like to read this because it is entertaining in a sort of Sexton Blake way. It goes as follows: 
So I came to Canberra - 
That has a Biblical ring about it:   . . and, after registering at the Canberra Rex Hotel, went to  Mr Connor's  office at Parliament House.  Mr Connor  was of course expecting me. The only persons present at the conference were  Mr Connor, Mr Karidis  and myself. We discussed again the matter and I told the Minister at his request all the information that I had conveyed to  Sir Lenox.  The Minister said he was very happy and then went on to say, 'If the confirmation comes we need the Prime Minister to stand by so we can send the formal acceptance immediately.' 
I am not quite clear what that means. But it is apparently what  Mr Connor  was alleged to have said. The statutory declaration continues: 
He then said to me, 'What time do you expect the acceptance to come?' I said, 'It could come any time from 9.00 to 5.00 London time.' 
He was apparently still suffering from jet lag: 

 Mr Connor then said, 'Well I had better phone the Prime Minister right away and tell him that the confirmation should come any time from 9.00 to 5.00 London time and request him to stand by.' 
Apparently the Prime Minister was going to remain riveted in an upright position for 8 hours, London time, waiting for the confirmation to come. The statutory declaration continues: 
He said, '1 think 1 had better also request him to have the Governor-General,  Sir John  Kerr, standing by also in case we need him.' 
-Yes, to repel boarders, it sounds like; but I do not think by that he means boarders at the Canberra Rex Hotel. According to the declaration,  Mr Connor  continued: 
I also better get the Prime Minister to have the Governor of the Reserve Bank standing by too.' 
It sounds like the Russian Army awaiting the charge of the Light Brigade. The statutory declaration continues: 

 Mr Connor then used his telephone and dialled a number - 
That is not an unusual practice for someone who is using a telephone: 
. and said, 'This is Connor here, put me through to the Prime Minister. ' 
My word, there is a man of decision.  Mr Khemlani  is awake up. He recorded all of this. He was not going to let one word go unrecorded. As the statutory declaration states: 
This is Connor here, put me through to the Prime Minister.'  Mr Karidis  and myself then got up and went outside the door - 
As opposed apparently to going outside the window; they went outside the door, not the window. 
. into the next office. We closed the door - 
That was awfully discreet of someone who is not always discreet: 
. and I noticed that the light had come on above the door. 
One might have thought that that was the beatific vision, but it was not. He continues: 
I had noticed this light previously-  1 think that this text stands on its own merits without any interpolation. The statutory declaration states: 
I had noticed this light previously and I knew from prior experience - 
What sort of prior experience, he does not tell us: 
. that that light was always on whenever he was speaking to the Prime Minister or to any other Minister. 
I was rather hurt. That is what attracted my attention. I have a very dull and pedestrian office. When I am talking to the Prime Minister, any other Minister or anybody else, no light comes on. I wondered why this preferential treatment was being given to  Mr Connor.  He is a man for whom I have the greatest respect, but I could not see why he should get a light if I did not get a light. I also wondered what the significance of the light was unless possibly during some period of crisis messages could be sent in Morse code. The statutory declaration says: 
I had noticed this light previously and I knew from prior experience that the light was always on whenever he was speaking to the Prime Minister or any other Minister. About tcn of fifteen minutes later - 
I think the 'of should be 'or':   . . he called us back into the room. He said, 'Everything has been arranged, the Prime Minister is very happy'. 
The Prime Minister is always very happy. I do not know why he comments on that. The Prime Minister has a great deal to be happy about when he can look at the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Who would not be a happy Prime Minister with a Leader of the Opposition like the one that  Mr Whitlam  has to face. The statutory declaration continues: 
You had better go back to your hotel and have a rest and come back about 4 o'clock'. 
This does not specify whether this is Canberra time or London time. The declaration continues: 
We then left  Mr Connor's  office and  Mr Karidis  and 1 went back to my hotel. I then telephoned London and spoke to  Mr Kumar  and  Mr  Derenpont  of Dolmac Consultants. I told both of them to let me know immediately if there were any problems or any difficulties whatsoever. 
I merely mention those extracts because this seems to have been a very significant moment when these conversations were taking place and the Prime Minister was very happy. I have since made inquiries, mainly, as I say, out of envy because I do not have any lights which come on when I am talking to anybody. I discover that there are no such lights at all which come on. In fact, I have had inquiries made and I am told that there are some lights. I will admit that. But I do not have these lights. There are 3 lights on the wall of the outer office now occupied by  Mr Lionel  Bowen and which used to be occupied by  Mr Connor.  They show whether the Minister or either of his secretaries is on the telephone, but they do not show to whom the Minister is talking, whether it is the Prime Minister, any other Minister or anybody else. All they show is that somebody is using the telephone; they do not show whether the caller is talking to the Prime Minister. 
I would not want to take up the time of the Senate discussing these flashing lights and what the flashing lights are supposed to show, whether they are on port or on starboard, or whether they are standing by or not standing by. I only mention the matter because it is part of this piffling document with which the Leader of the Opposition insulted the intelligence of the Senate by laying it before us yesterday. I believe that the document has been treated with contempt by anybody who has had an opportunity to have a look at it and that it ought to be treated with contempt. 

 Mr President, it is a shameful state of affairs that the business of the nation is brought to a standstill because of statutory declarations from a scientologist who sells tickets for the first trip to the moon and somebody else who tells us of flashing lights which indicate whether  Mr Connor  is talking to the Prime Minister. The Opposition, through its irresponsible actions and through its lunatic actions which have been repudiated by an increasing number of the Australian people and by an overwhelming majority of the Australian people, is grasping at any excuse in order to seize government. In fact, we even find the most comical situation now of the Leader of the Opposition in the other place as he finds himself sinking deeper and deeper into the mire saying that if we will have an election some time before the middle of next year he will let the Budget go through. What an extraordinary thing to say. First of all he said that the Budget was a tragedy and should not be passed. Now he says that he will pass the Budget. Then he says there is a crisis and that there is such a crisis that the Government has to be removed immediately. Now he say that it is only a sort of crisis; it is a crisis which the Opposition Parties will allow to jog along for another 8 months until May or June of next year. 
I put it to you,  Mr President:  Can we really take these people seriously? Can we take them any more seriously than the great public outside takes them? Are they any more than jokesrather malevolent jokes but nonetheless jokesand the sort of people who in order to go through this ludicrous charade are prepared to take steps which will deprive the pensioners of this country, the public servants of this country and the people who are living in sheltered workshops of those moneys to which they are entitled? These the sort of people we have facing us. They are prepared to hold up the business of this country, to jeopardise the economy of the country, to jeopardise the defence of the country and to jeopardise the whole democratic structure of this country, all because of some information or alleged information which is obtained in these ludicrous documents including statements about flashing lights, London times, and the Prime Minister, the Governor-General and the Governor of the Reserve Bank all standing by. 

 Mr President, Opposition members have shown to all of us as they have shown to the Australian people what a bankrupt collection of mountebanks they are. The Australian people have repudiated them in the same way as they repudiated them last year when they forced this country to a double dissolution and in the same way as ultimately they will repudiate them when in good time, in accordance with proper constitutional conventions, this Government does go to the people. Then the Opposition Parties will get their answer. Then they will see just what the Australian people think of those who would be prepared to prostitute Parliament by presenting this piffle as an excuse for not allowing a democratically elected government to carry out the business of the country. 
I think that anybody would be stuck for words in knowing what precisely one was to make out of what  Senator Wright  has just told us. 
It was very clear to the honourable senator, was it? 
-Perhaps we find out about that. There will be a test at  1  o'clock and I am not sure that the honourable senator will pass. One of the things which  Senator Wright  said was that the misapprehension under which  Senator Everett  and I had been labouring was as a result of the garbled report given by that Labor lap-dog, the Australian Broadcasting Commission. In fact, it was not. It was another Labor lap-dog which misinformed us, namely, the Hobart  Mercury  which is notoriously communist dominated and which has an editorial office in which, 1 understand, sharp disputes are forever raging between Maoists, Stalinists and, as  Senator Mulvihill  has told us, Trotskyites. I think  Senator Wright  believes that some Tito elements have snuck in lately. The reports on  which  I was basing my reply and about which I understand  Senator Everett  was asking his question had nothing to do with the ABC at all. Neither of us was able to hear the ABC in Tasmania because our receivers are not powerful enough. 
Well,  Senator Wright  heard it himself. All I can say is that  Senator Wright  has better hearing than we have. What we are relying on its an article by Wayne Crawford, whoever he may be, who writes in the Hobard  Mercury.  Mr Crawford  stated: 
No-fault rise $25? 
I must say that he tends to qualify the statement by having a question mark after it. He continues: 
No-fault fault motor accident insurance premiums are expected to increase by about $25 a year from December 1 . 
This is the Hobart  Mercury.  I think that it should be a fit study for  Senator Wright's  investigations. 
The article continues: 
The new rate for a private motor car is expected to be about $60 a year- compared with the present $35. 
The regulations for the increase are listed in today's Government Gazette. 
Details of the new rates are not given, and the AttorneyGeneral.  Mr Miller,  would not authorise their release yesterday. 
However, the Motor Accidents Insurance Board, which administers no-fault, made it clear in its report, tabled in Parliament last month, that a substantial increase was needed. 
The report said the scheme had been hit by increases of 1 1 8 per cent in hospital charges, and 300 per cent in ambulance fees, since the current premium was decided on before no-fault started on December 1 last year. 
The $2-a-year tax, which is paid on top of the no-fault premium, has not been altered. 
Maybe the information is wrong but one likes to rely on the Press, particularly respected newspapers like the Hobart  Mercury.  I know that I referred to that newspaper in a rather ironic sense at an earlier stage, but we were not relying on the Australian Broadcasting Commission.  Senator Everett  and I have taken account of what  Senator Wright  has told us, and that is that Professor Downing and  Mr Duckmanton  are under-cover communists. For that reason we have been very suspicious ourselves of anything that appears on the ABC, so we tend to rely on journals like the Hobart  Mercury  from whence we obtained our information. I would suggest that  Senator Wright  might take up further with the Hobart  Mercury  whether the information is correct. 
I do not want to prolong the agony at this time of the day by going along all the byways- I do not think there were too many highways- along which  Senator Wright  has led us. I would only say that throughout the country, in every State, the premiums charged for compulsory third party motor vehicle insurance, whether or not they are no-fault premiums, and the premiums which are charged for compulsory workers compensation insurance are steadily increasing. If  Senator Wright  would care to cast his mind back to the time when he was sitting on the Senate Standing Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs when it was inquiring into the National Compensation Bill, he might well remember some evidence which was given to the original inquiry into rehabilitation and compensation in Australia by  Mr D.  G. Pettigrew, the managing director of Sun Alliance Insurance Limited, which is a multinational and which is the oldest still existing insurance company in the world.  Mr Pettigrew  said quite clearly in evidence that it was necessary that there be some form of national compensation scheme because the burdens on private insurers of maintaining workers compensation insurance and third party motor vehicle insurance were becoming crippling and that they would have to be accepted as a responsibility for the State and could no longer be regarded as a responsibility for the private insurers. Evidence of that is seen every day in every State. It is seen in New South Wales, in Tasmania, in Victoria, in those States where the third party insurance is conducted by a State Government insurance office, in those States where it is conducted by private insurance offices- not very many of them do cover third party insurance at the present time- and in Western Australia where motor vehicle third party insurance is conducted by a trust which was established by legislation and in which there is participation by private insurers and the Western Australian State Government Insurance Office. 
Nothing that  Senator Wright  has said this evening will alter those facts. Nothing that he can tell us about the communist plots by the ABC will alter that situation. The fact is that we do have a collapsing insurance system in Australia in regard to workers compensation and third party motor vehicle insurance. This Government intends to do something to correct that situation. I hope that the more enlightened members of the Opposition will not adopt the attitude shown by  Senator Wright  and will assist us to do something to correct a situation which is imposing a terrible burden not only on the insurance companies but also on all of the people of Australia. 
-The matter to which  Senator Bessell  refers was raised by him some weeks ago in the Senate. It has been raised by a number of other people. It seems to concern particularly farmers engaged in the beef industry although a number of other people in local areas have been involved. I think  Senator Bessell  originally referred to King Island. The problem is a very complex one because the sort of principle which would apply to the payment of unemployment benefit to farmers who still may well have quite substantial assets although they are not in a liquid form could well apply to people engaged in all sorts of businesses which may not be making a profit. A number of discussions on this matter have been held between officers of my Department and the Department of Agriculture. Subsequently, as I think  Senator Bessell  would know, the Industries Assistance Commission has presented a report relating to assistance which could be given to non-viable beef producers. I have a copy of the relevant extracts from the report with me but rather than take the time of the Senate in reading them, if  Senator Bessell  were prepared to see me privately at some time that we could mutually arrange- I know that he has an interest in this matter- I would like to talk to him further about it. 
Although the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on beef producers is of assistance to beef producers, there are other farmers who are not beef producers but who for various reasons, sometimes for local reasons, are in a similarly difficult position to that of the beef producers. I would like to have a conversation with  Senator Bessell,  knowing his interest in the matter, and to show him the documents I have. I would be very happy to listen to any suggestions that  Senator Bessell  might make because I am finding it an extraordinarily difficult problem to unravel and I think this is recognised by farmers' organisations who appreciate that there could be a lot of anomalies in the payment of unemployment benefit to people who do own a farm. 
Apparently  Mr Franz  was waiting for me outside the front of Parliament House yesterday but I unintentionally evaded him by coming into the building by a side entrance. I have seen his photograph in this morning's  Canberra Times.  The photograph shows him sitting outside Parliament House saying: 'I am receiving money under false pretences'.  Mr Franz  says that he has received some $30,000 by way of invalid pension during the past 15 years, and that it has been paid out falsely, because he was declared to be an invalid in 1960 but was not given substantial reasons for the decision. I am not entirely sure that I understand what his complaint is. 
The fact of the matter is that  Mr Franz  is not in receipt of an invalid pension or any other pension which is administered by the Department of Social Security. Apparently  Mr Franz  receives fortnightly income from the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund, which I do not administer. I do not know what his complaint is in that regard. I would only say that it is rather unusual to find people complaining about receiving their superannuation. Generally I have found that their complaint was that they were not receiving their superannuation. 

 -Mr President - 
-As a matter of fact, I can. I did not think that I was going to be able to but it suddenly came back into my mind. Since 1966 some $14m has been provided by way of benefits to Vietnam veterans and their dependants. Death benefits amounting to $1.6m, incapacity benefits amounting to $8m and medical treatment costs amounting to $4.2m have been paid. In the last financial year, 1974-75, $300,000 was paid by way of death benefits, $2. 2m by way of incapacity benefits and another $1.2m for treatment benefits. This is a commitment which will continue for years as a result of the actions of the previous Government in conscripting soldiers to go to Vietnam. A very large burden of cost, apart from the suffering which the Opposition has already inflicted on the Australian people, will have to be met by way of payments by the Australian taxpayers for many years to come. 
-Senator Sheil spoke to me about this matter yesterday. It is a matter with which I am connected only in a representative capacity. It is the responsibility of the Minister for Health. I have asked the Minister about  Senator Shell's  question. The Minister's answer is that he is aware that the Pharmacy Guild of Australia has threatened legal action against the Government unless an arbitrator is appointed to settle the matters in dispute. The matter is at present being given close considertion. The Minister for Health has informed me that at this stage he is unable to say what the decision will be or when it will be made. I can only assume that, if the Pharmacy Guild does intend to abide by its ultimatum and if a decision has not been made by the Minister for Health by tomorrow, a writ will be issued and the matter will be settled elsewhere. I am afraid that this is a problem upon which I can shed no light, other than to provide the answer which has been given to me by the Minister for Health. 
I think the short answer to the question is yes. Of course we did anticipate that if the various repatriation tribunals were going to be giving reasons for their decisions, of necessity that would take longer than if they were merely giving a decision without stating reasons. That was taken into account by the Government and by veterans organisations when they advocated to the Government that that principle ought to be introduced. It is a principle which is of advantage to applicants and to appellants. These tribunals are of a judicial nature and I think everyone would agree that it is only fair that those people who receive a decision from them should know the reasons for that decision. Both the repatriation boards and the appeal tribunals are now taking longer than they took previously, as we anticipated they would. Other factors apart from the giving of written decisions are causing certain delays, such as maintaining the availability of medical officers to give medical opinions. We are finding a certain reluctance as the years since the war roll by on the part of medical practitioners to agree to act as repatriation medical officers. 
Inquiries a lso are taking longer because of the time that has elapsed since the wars. It is now much more difficult to establish whether a disability was war caused some 30 years after the war than it was a few years after the war. The situation is much more complex. However, I would agree that the major reason for the delay is probably the fact that reasons for the decisions are now being given. The Government is endeavouring to overcome, and I think it is succeeding, this problem by the appointment of additional boards in New South Wales and Victoria. In the other States, boards which formerly operated part time are now working much longer hours. Also some administrative steps have been taken which we hope will speed up the procedures. A firm of management consultants has inquired into the whole system of repatriation boards and tribunals and it has given us a report upon which we are acting. While acknowledging all of these matters, I repeat that it is important for the veterans that they know the reasons for decisions, particularly adverse decisions, and the Government intends to persevere with what we regard as a reform in the repatriation law which was long overdue and which is in the best interests of all those people who are entitled or who believe they are entitled to receive repatriation benefits. 
I have seen a report which appeared in today's  Australian  and Sydney  Daily Telegraph  in which the Commercial Life Assurance Limited claims that it is the first company in Australia to issue non-standard life assurance policies to some 90 per cent of those people who have been wrongly assessed as sub-standard according to the criteria previously applied by all companies. I do not know whether the company's claim to be the first company to do this is correct, but if it is I think that it calls into serious question the policies which have been followed by other life assurance companies in disqualifying such people from obtaining life assurance. 
As far as the other forms of discrimination are concerned, I think that I have made a number of statements on policies which have been followed by various companies, including the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Ltd, which require that a person should be able to speak and understand English without difficulty before he can obtain a life assurance policy. There have been other discriminatory practices. I think that the answer to the question as to why there may be some elimination of these discriminatory practices is that the private life assurance companies are afraid of the establishment of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation and are afraid of the competition that that would give. This is influencing the private insurance companies to abandon discriminatory policies which otherwise they would still follow. 
I have seen the report; I was rather startled. In fact, I read it this morning on an empty stomach and I was surprised that  Senator Jessop  should make such an extraordinary claim. I would have been surprised also if the report had appeared in any other newspaper but the  Australian,  in which I read it. Nobody has taken the trouble to check with me or anyone in my Department as to the veracity of these facts, but one of the least engaging characteristics of the  Australian  is not checking stories which it receives with those who are supposed to be responsible for administering the matters to which that newspaper refers. If, as  Senator McLaren  has said,  Senator Jessop  and his colleagues in the Opposition were prepared to stop failing to pass the Appropriation Bills and to give the Government the money to which it is entitled as a government to carry out its business, none of these problems to which  Senator Jessop  has referred would arise and none of the departments, including the Department of Repatriation and Compensation, would have any problems in paying their accounts. 
There is no mystery in the fact that a question was raised on one day regarding an account and a cheque was received subsequently. That is more likely to be a coincidence. No doubt the query would have been about an outstanding account. The Department is under no direction from me whatsoever, nor is it pursuing any policy of deliberately withholding the payment of accounts. I categorically deny on my own behalf and on behalf of my Department any such intentions or any such actions. But, I am faced with the position that, some votes under the Supply Acts are subject to greater demands than others. For example- and this is what concerns the specific matter to which  Senator Jessop  referreddivision 527 funds, from which repatriation payments for nursing homes, local medical officers, special medical officers and paramedical services, pharmaceutical services and education allowances are paid, are for all practical purposes already exhausted as a result of the Opposition's actions. At the end of October, $750,000 was held in this division. Subsequently the Department of the Treasury advanced a further $750,000 out of the Advance to the Treasurer. That amount of $ 1.5m is insufficient in a division which at present is accumulating accounts to the value of $2, 100,000 a week. 

 Senator Jessop last week asked specific questions on this matter and I am obtaining the full details from the Department. As I promised then, I hope to inform him on this matter later this week. As to the question of the subsequent receipt of the cheque following the question which was asked in the Senate, I have to point out that the processing of payments is normally spread over several days and no payment has been made as a direct consequence of any question asked of me in the Senate. Subsequent receipt of a payment in the circumstances that  Senator Jessop  is reported to have mentioned would be purely coincidental and would not have any relationship to anything that had happened within this chamber. 
I think I will require this question to be placed on notice. I recall giving the answer but I do not remember the details. I will obtain a detailed answer for  Senator Webster. 

 Sitting suspended from J to 2 p.m. 

On 8 October and 4 November in the Senate and on 10 October in the appropriate Senate Estimates Committee,  Senator Sheil  raised the matter of the non-payment of benefits for services rendered by doctors to other doctors, their wives and families. The policy is, as was explained to the Senate Estimates Committee in which  Senator Sheil  raised the matter, that medical benefits are not payable when the medical service is rendered by a medical practitioner to his family or to his partners or their dependants. This has been the policy of the Department of Social Security for some time. 

 MB Circular 75, distributed by the Department of Health in April 1970 under the previous Governent, explains the policy, and that it is in accord with the views expressed by the Federal Assembly of the Australian Medical Association as reported in the supplement to the  Medical Journal of Australia  of 24 November 1975. It is also in keeping with the principle that doctors did not generally make charges for these services prior to the introduction of the medical benefits scheme. 
For the information of honourable Senators I present a report entitled  Survey of Patients Receiving Domiciliary Nursing Care 31 May 1974.  Due to the limited number available reference copies of this report have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, results from some of the concern which has been shown throughout the community about the Government's intentions regarding television and radio broadcasting in Australia. I refer particularly to claims which have been made by commercial broadcasting interests that the Australian Broadcasting Control Board should be abolished, to changes in the composition of the Australian Broadcasting Commission and to the various criticisms which are being made by members of the Government on both the alleged bias of the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the cost of conducting the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I ask the Minister whether a statement could be prepared as soon as possible to be given to the Parliament and to the Australian people so that in this field, which is of so much interest to the Australian people, we shall all be well aware of what the Government intends to do and we shall be able to debate whatever propositions it has to put forward. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Does the Government have any plans to compensate those persons who have suffered loss of property as a result of the recent floods in the eastern States of Australia and the recent disaster in Bundaberg, and does the Government have any plans regarding the introduction of a scheme of national disaster insurance? If so, can we expect a statement to be made by the Government at an early occasion? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, who I am pleased to see has so much information at his fingertips. I wonder whether he could inform the Senate about the accuracy of newspaper reports to the effect that a questionnaire is being circulated among the public asking whether they think the Australian Broadcasting Commission should be abolished. If the report is accurate, why is this information being sought? 
In this morning's issue of the  Australian  newspaper, in the course of an article written by 'Our Political Staff' and headed, 'Caucus to curb Whitlam 's power', the following paragraphs appear: 
Many Labor MPs believe  Mr Beazley  's decision to resign now was rash. One of  Mr Whitlam's  strongest critics,  Senator John  Wheeldon, who is also considering resigning, has attacked  Mr Beazley  's decision. 

 Senator Wheeldon feels  Mr Beazley  could have waited until after the Victorian elections. 
I have not discussed this matter with anybody working for the  Australian  or for any other newspaper. I have not in any way criticised or attacked  Mr Beazley  to anybody from any newspaper or in any other circumstances. 
I  present the following petition from 12 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: that whereas from 1 October 1974 the National Employment and Training System came into operation; and that at that time the then Government agreed that widow pensioners and recipients of Supporting Mothers Benefit will be in no way disadvantaged . . .'under the National Employment and Training System; and that ' for all trainees over 2 1 years and Junior trainees with dependents a full-time training allowance equivalent to the average adult male award wage, which will be adjusted quarterly- at the present time approximately $90 per week', is to be provided; and that there is strong objection to the reduction in training allowance to trainees under the National Employment and Training System, to be effective from 1 April 1 976, as this places these trainees at considerable financial disadvantage. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Members in the Senate assembled will take the most urgent steps to readjust the payments under the National Employment and Training System so that they are equivalent to the average adult male award wage. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications tell the Senate when it is likely that frequency modulation broadcasting by the Australian Broadcasting Commission will be extended to Perth and those other cities which do not at present have this service? Are the proposed cuts in ABC expenditure likely to have any effect on the extension of frequency modulation broadcasting to Western Australia and those other States and the Northern Territory which do not at present have this service? 
I wish to speak briefly on a matter which may seem rather trifling as it consists largely of a personal anecdote but I think the implications of what I am saying are of sufficient importance to warrant the small amount of time I will be giving to it this afternoon and the amount of the time of the Senate I will be taking up in doing so. Yesterday when I arrived in my office I found some correspondence from the Royal Insurance Company Ltd which, despite some of my feelings about multi-national insurance companies, I find is the insurer with which I carry a householder's insurance policy over my residence in Perth. I found that the Royal Insurance Company had sent me 2 documents. The first one, which became visible on opening the envelope, was described as an expiry reminder. 
It informed me, to my shock, that the householder's insurance policy which I held had expired on 2 May. I received this advice on 3 May. 
However, a note was appended. I shall not weary the Senate by reading the note, other than a small part. I was informed that as I was a valued client the company had not immediately terminated my policy but it would give me a fortnight's grace in which to renew the policy. I was somewhat concerned that such a distressing lapse had taken place on my part as not to renew a householder's insurance policy. If one did not have a householder's insurance policy, as honourable senators will appreciate, one could be in a most embarrassing situation if one's house were to burn down. 
It was not a reply at all. I had said nothing to the company. It was written to me. It certainly was not a reply. I found appended to the note a renewal certificate which was to serve as a receipt upon payment of the premium. I discovered that this was the notice advising me that the policy was due to be renewed. It had been sent to me with the notice that the policy had expired. This material was posted on 30 April which was a Friday. The earliest it could have reached me was 3 May. The information which was contained therein was to the effect that my policy had expired on 2 May. 
-Yes. The postmark on the envelope showed that it was posted on 30 April. This was confirmed by the manager of the insurance company. I do not think one can shift the onus for any oversight on this matter to the Australian Postal Commission. It was posted on 30 April and it arrived on 3 May. I telephoned the manager of the Royal Insurance Company and expressed in, I hope, not too querulous a tone my view that it was a little late to advise somebody that their policy had expired. If one were to be absent, as most of us in our occupation are and as any person may be, despite this apparently generous gesture in extending the time of the policy by another fortnight, one could be absent for the whole of that period, one would find that one's policy had expired while one was absent, and, with the expiration of the additional time, one would not be covered. One could even be in the unfortunate circumstance where one's house had been burgled or burnt between the date of the expiry of the period of grace which had been given and the time when one paid the premium. 
-Yes, I did. I advocated to the manager of the Royal Insurance Company that he ought to send out renewal notices at a reasonable time before the expiry of the policy. This would seem not only to be a proper business practice but also something which I think the holders of policies are entitled to have. 
-Senator Webster does not think so. I know  Senator Webster  has an association with insurance companies which is quite different from mine. 

 -No, Senator Webster, one does not necessarily send an advice to somebody. But it would seem to me that in providing a service such as insurance it would be reasonable to advise the insured person that his policy is liable to expire. 
-When one is paying a premium of $80-odd I do not think that 18c postage would add tremendously to the cost. I think that most people would prefer to have the 1 8c added to their premium rather than face the possibility of having their policy expire. I certainly would rather pay the 18c for the insurance company to give me that notification. But the manager of the Royal Insurance Company- as possibly is not to be wondered at- took the same point of view as that of  Senator Webster.  The manager first of all said that they had some confusion in their office and that they had meant to send out a reminder but had not done so, or something to that effect. I could not quite follow his argument. He raised also the argument raised by  Senator Webster  that they were trying to save on postage. If I may interpolate, seeing the question of saving on postage has been raised, I did not notice any desire to save on postage when they were sending communications to all of their policy holders throughout Australia during 1975 calling for the defeat of the Labor Government. But I see that postage is a consideration when it comes to communicating to their policy holders that their policies might expire. I think that possibly one can draw some conclusions from that. 
I think that I have made quite clear the position as I see it and that is that here is at least one insurance company which is not notifying policy holders of the date of the expiry of their policies. I believe that to require policy holders to keep records places an unreasonable burden upon them. A number of people are not as used as  Senator Webster  is to dealing in the upper reaches of high finance and do not therefore keep all these matters at their finger tips. A number of people would not be able to remember precisely when their householder's policy was going to expire as opposed to their third party insurance policy, their employer's liability policy or whatever other policy it might be. I understand that the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  is responsible for the administration of the insurance legislation. I hope that  Senator Webster  will convey to the Minister representing the Treasurer the suggestion that some amendment should be made to the laws relating to insurance in this country, either by amending the relevant section of the insurance legislation or, I would imagine more properly, by amending the insurance regulations. 
Insurers are given under the insurance legislation an opportunity to make considerable sums of money- I am not arguing about that- by engaging in the business of insurance. Householders' insurance, for example, is not one field of insurance, like third party insurance or workers' compensation insurance, which is a losing branch of the insurance industry. I think that on the whole most insurance companies make profits from householders' insurance, except in circumstances such as the Darwin cyclone. Overall insurance companies would make fairly substantial profits in most parts of Australia on their householders' insurance. I believe that the laws relating to insurance should be amended to require insurance companies to give due notice, possibly something like 30 days notice, to the insured - 
I agree completely that many insurance companies do. In fact, my colleague,  Senator Wriedt,  who was in the insurance industry before coming into this chamber, informed me that the insurance office with which he was associated before coming here always made it a practice of sending a reminder 30 days before the expiry of a policy. I believe that this is something which could well be made the subject of regulations or, if necessary, an amendment of the appropriate Act. It is much too serious for people to be placed in the position where they could lose the value of their assets through the mere fact that they had not intended to default on payment of a premium but in fact had not been advised by an insurance company in whose interest one would have thought if would have been just as significant to give this sort of advice as it would have been in the interests of the insured. I make the suggestion that perhaps the Treasurer would consider an appropriate amendment to the law. 
I think there is much with which any reasonable person would have to agree in what  Senator Scott  has just said. Certainly as he said in his opening remarks it is a matter of urgency when we find that armed force is being used so close to the shores of Australia. I would, however, not take quite so sanguine a view as  Senator Scott  does of the actions of his own Government. I do not believe that it has taken as much and as energetic action as it should have taken in support of the principles of self-determination for the Timorese people, and in particular- this is the only instance to which I would refer in any detail- I believe that it has not behaved correctly with regard to the provision of the radio transmitter which apparently was being used for contact with the Fretilin forces in Timor. 
When it is being argued by many- I think by all of us- that the United Nations should exercise some surveillance over what is occurring in Timor and that  Mr Winspeare  Guicciardi, the United Nations representative, should visit Timor, it does seem to be somewhat unreasonable to destroy the only effective communication that there was with the Fretilin forces from outside Timor by closing down the radio transmitter in the Northern Territory. I know that it could be argued that there are all sorts of requirements under the Wireless Telegraphy Act with regard to the licensing of transmitters, but it would seem to be taking a most extraordinarily legalistic point to say that in these circumstances the one link with the forces other than the Indonesian forces in Timor should be broken in the way in which it was broken. If that is done- and it was done- it makes it all the more difficult, I believe, to sustain the point that we are endeavouring to see that there is a legitimate act of selfdetermination by the Timorese people, when the link with the Fretilin, which I think everybody would have to concede must represent a substantial number of Timorese people- whether it is a majority, I suppose, it is difficult to speculate from this distance, but certainly no one could deny that it represents a very substantial number of Timorese people- is broken and the only remaining link is a link through the Indonesians and those people in Timor who are supporting Indonesia. 
I believe that if we are going to look at the present position in Timor it is necessary to avoid hysteria; it is necessary to avoid an excessive use of emotive prose, because we find at the present time that there has been armed intervention by a power in the internal affairs of another piece of territory. I think that is beyond dispute; there has been armed intervention by Indonesia. To a large degree, I think it has to be said without being unduly provocative towards them, the manner in which the Indonesian Government has sought to justify its intervention in Indonesia has been specious in the extreme. To say that they were only volunteers taking part is the most palpable nonsense. That is no excuse whatsoever. Whether they were volunteers, conscripts or national servicemen does not seem to me to make the slightest difference. They were, in fact, members of the Indonesian armed forces, apparently carrying out the orders of Indonesian officers and in no way acting in defiance of their own authorities. Certainly no suggestion has been made that they are going to be charged with mutiny or insubordination because of the actions that they took. 
Further, they were using Indonesian armed forces equipment and Indonesian arms, which were not volunteers. The submarines, if there were submarines there, the warships and the planes were not volunteers; they were provided by the Indonesian Government. So whether those troops were volunteers or whether they were not volunteers, the fact remains that the Indonesian Government directly intervened in the affairs of Timor. The suggestion that they were volunteers is the sort of argument which has been advanced in the past. The Germans used it in 1936 when they said that the Condor Legion they sent to Spain was comprised of volunteers. That argument had as much substance as this argument. Whether or not they were volunteers, they wore the German uniform and bore German arms in the same way as these people wore the Indonesian uniform and bore Indonesian arms. But the problem in Timor is one which, I believe, goes back to the many hundreds of years- some 400 years- of Portuguese rule in Timor. In many respects, their was a benign rule. The Portuguese, of all the great European colonial powers, were certainly the least racist. There were no laws and certainly there was very little practice against what is described so euphemistically in South Africa as miscegenation. There was no Immorality Act in Portuguese Timor. 
It was a very backward regime. But there were certain positive aspects of it. There are many negative aspects which I intend to mention; but there were at the same time some positive aspects of the Portuguese regime. I was in Portuguese Timor in 1966. It was under Portuguese rule. I remember that at the time when I was there the Chief Judge of Portuguese Timor was in fact an African from Angola. One did see cars in Dili- there were not a great many cars there- in which on occasions a white Portuguese private was driving a person of non-European origin, some sort of official or functionary of the Portuguese Government, as a passenger. I remember a rather prominent Portuguese official, the  President  of the Portuguese National Union which in fact was the Portuguese Fascist Party, describing somebody to me. He went through a long description. He told me that this person was a bald headed man, with horn rimmed glasses, aged about 60, and rather fat; but he neglected to tell me that he was a totally black man from Sao Tome, who was a political deportee living in Timor but engaging in some sort of scholarly work which was a little too esoteric for me. 
Despite the fact that the Portuguese did regard legally all of the Timorese people as being Portuguese citizens, there were negative aspects of this also. There was absolute neglect, and more than neglect, of any indigenous Timorese languages. The only language which was recognised in Portuguese Timor was Portuguese. All official documents, such as they were, were in Portuguese. Education was carried on in Portuguese. Although, as I have mentioned earlier, this did have its positive aspects- it meant that a certain small number of the more outstanding students of Timor were able to go to Portugal and study at universities and institutions of higher learning there- the fact was that Timorese culture itself was completely neglected and, as far as the educated people in Timor were concerned, became largely non-existent. No preparation was made for any form of self-government. 
I doubt that the Timorese people were any more oppressed than were the people in metropolitan Portugal. But the fact remains that there was no scope whatsoever for the formation of indigenous Timorese political parties, trade unions or the other movements which one found in the colonies of Britain, France or even, for that matter, the Netherlands, such as the Netherlands East Indies. lt is not to be wondered at that when Portugal ultimately removed the fascist regime- I use the word 'fascist' not as a term of abuse, but as a word which the Portuguese authorities used to describe themselves- and independence was given to Timor there was a state of general confusion. I know that one can be critical of the Portuguese perhaps for the way in which they handed over so quickly and so abruptly. But I think that 2 points must be made. The first is that they had their own very severe problems at home, problems that they are only now, I hope, beginning to surmount. Apart from that, it seems to me to be very difficult to know what one is supposed to do if one is a colonial power. If one does stay on, one is accused of hanging around and being a colonialist; but, if one goes to quickly, that is no good either. It seems to me that in the circumstances the Portuguese probably acted quite reasonably in saying: 'We do not want to be colonialists. We do not want to be imperialists. We are leaving'. And they left. 
My own view, for as much as it is worth- it is a view which I expressed in an article which I wrote for an Australian journal after I had been to Portuguese Timor in 1966- is that the best solution would have been, had the Timorese people wanted it, for Timor to retain some association with Portugal, similar to the association which New Caledonia and La Reunion have with France, whereby it could have had some sort of departmental status within metropolitan Portugal itself; that is, provided that Portugal was a democratic country and provided that it did much more for the Timorese people than it had done over the 400 years that it had been there. This apparently was not wanted by a majority of the Timorese people and it was not wanted by the Government of Portugal. 
The Indonesian Government, for whatever reason, has decided to incorporate Timor inside its own boundaries. In doing this it has behaved in a way which has been completely contrary to its own principles which it has expounded in the past. The principles which the Government, the people and all political parties in Indonesia expounded after the end of the Second World War, when the original conflict arose with the Netherlands, were that the Republic of Indonesia should hold sovereign authority over all of the former territory of the Netherlands East Indies. That was their position. That was their argument for the incorporation of West Irian into the Netherlands East Indies. They maintained that, as a result of the treaty which the Provisional Government of the Republic of Indonesia entered into with the Government of the Netherlands shortly after the war, legally they were entitled to all of the former Netherlands East Indies including West Irian. Their claims were made not on the basis of race or culture but on juridical grounds about the integrity of the Netherland East Indies which had acquired its independence. They are arguments with which I agreed at the time, and with which I agree now. I believe that quite properly, whatever the regime may be in Indonesia, West Irian was incorporated in Indonesia. I believe that it is and should be part of Indonesia, as in fact it now is. 
No such argument can be used about Portuguese Timor. It never was part of the Netherlands East Indies. For people to argue, as some do, that the people there are ethnically similar to the people of Indonesia is completely unhelpful to the Indonesian case. It is not an argument which the Indonesians have ever used. If they did, it would cause them to be able to make claims to a large part of Malaysia and all or, if not all, a very large part of the Philippines. It is a claim which, however, they have never made. In any event, if they did make it, it is not a claim which could be maintained to the extent which those who advocate this point of view would like to see it maintained. Timor is a multi-ethnic community. On the one occasion on which I was in Portuguese Timor, in 1966, an anthropological mission from the  Musรฉe de I'Homme  in Paris under the leadership of Louis Berthe- probably one of the leading anthropologists in the worldwas there. I met Louis Berthe and other members of that anthropological mission. One of the reasons why there was such a large and high powered anthropological mission studying the situation in Portuguese Timor at that time was the ethnic complexity of Portuguese Timor. Certainly there are people of the Malay ethnic group to which the bulk of the people of Indonesia belong. But there are other people there. There are people, particularly in the Dili area, who are regarded by many anthropologists as having very strong similarities to some Australian Aborigines. There are other people apparently of Melanesian and Negrito stock. I do not know what the ultimate result of the investigations of the Louis Berthe mission were; but certainly it cannot be argued that all Timorese are ethnically the same as the preponderantly Malay population of Indonesia. 
Indeed, through the fact that there was this 400 years or more of Portuguese rule and through the fact that the Portuguese insisted that Timor was an integral part of Portugalalthough they did not engage in much propaganda, such propaganda as they did engage in throughout Timor consisted of signs saying 'Portugal is here', 'Portugal is a multi-continental country' and slogans to that effect- a very large number of the Timorese people became much more aligned with the Portuguese culture and tradition than they did with any indigenous culture and traditions of their own part of the world. Certainly the means of communication of the people who could be regarded as educated or partly educated was the Portuguese language. Most, if not all, of them have Portuguese names. Many of them are partly of Portuguese ancestry. 
I believe that in those circumstances the Indonesians can justify no claim whatsoever, apart from some claim that if a little country near one's border gets its independence one is entitled to take it over. I think that we all ought to be very alarmed at any widespread adoption of that point of view. There are a number of little countries near the borders of very big countries. To argue that this should be the case with regard to East Timor could well mean that we would have to support a number of examples of aggression throughout the world, some of which are only too familiar to us. 
I would say in closing, as  Senator Scott  and other honourable senators have said, that what has occurred in East Timor has been armed intervention against a small group of people. I am not arguing that troops should be sent to Timor; nobody in the Australian Labor Party is. We do not want another Vietnam. But what we do say is that there are means, without provoking conflict with Indonesia, whereby Australia can make its position clear to Indonesia; that is, that we support self-determination for the Timorese people. Thereby, we could do something for the people of this small country and also for peace in our part of the world. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. He may recall, during the time that he has been giving some attention to this portfolio, that several weeks ago the Minister for Foreign Affairs, after speaking to members of the Indonesian Government, said that he had been given assurances by the Indonesian Government that there would be an act of genuine self determination by the people of East Timor. I wonder whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs has received any further advice from the Indonesian Government as to how arrangements for that act of self determination are progressing. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Minister seen the annual report for 1975 of the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Ltd in which mention is made of the offices of the Society in Salisbury and Bulawayo and also to the presence of a director for Rhodesia on the southern Africa board of the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Ltd which, as the Minister would know, is a society incorporated in Australia with its head office in Melbourne? Does the Minister know whether the carrying on of life assurance business by an Australian company in Rhodesia is in breach of the United Nations' decisions on sanctions against Rhodesia to which Australia is a party and which this Government has said it will uphold? If it is, what action does the Government propose to take on this matter? 

 - Senator Jessop has introduced a touch of whimsy into what is otherwise a rather dry subject with his discussion of table wines and London hotel bedrooms. I do not wish to debate these matters with him as I bow to his superior knowledge of both subjects. Not only was the atmosphere of the  bon vivant  introduced into our debate but also a rather delicate touch of nostalgia when the honourable senator referred to the present Government's usurpation of power in the terms which he used when he said: 'We took over a business'. What I rather liked about that expression 'We took over a business' was the delightful nostalgia of it all. It carries one back to 1926 when Calvin Coolidge was the  President  of the United States of America.  Senator Jessop  who, no doubt, has just recently caught up with Calvin Coolidge 's thinking will remember that the late  President  said on that occasion in the era of the pre-depression boom of the 1920s that America's business is business', that the role of the United States Government was to do nothing which interfered with business and to do everything which would benefit business. 
-Senator Sheil who also subscribes to the Calvin Coolidge doctrine agrees with that. No doubt he would endorse what Presidents Harding, Coolidge and Hoover did during the period from 1921 to 1933 after which the Republicans were replaced in the administration by  President  Roosevelt. 
-' My word', says  Senator Sheil.  I do not want to become involved in a side debate with the honourable senator. I think he ought to remember what happened at the end of that period of 'America's business is business' with Harding, Coolidge and Hoover. What happened was the greatest depression which the capitalist world has ever seen. There was the greatest erosion that the world has ever seen in the confidence in a system which  Senator Jessop  and  Senator Sheil  uphold. A great transformation to the economies of Western countries took place as a result of the pursuit of those policies 50 years ago, policies which are pursued today by this Government in Australia. The result of the election of this Government is that we now find that people actually are doing what in the past they were only saying they would like to do. Once, there was only a handful of rather strange people on the fringe of the extreme right who read the novels of Ayn Rand and who thought that there was something in the doctrines which she was espousing. Now we actually find a Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and a government which not only reads this nonsense, not only believes this nonsense but also actually runs a government on these principles. It is a most remarkable development. I think that Australia along with Chile could well become- I am not talking about military coups or torture or anything like that - 
-No, I do not believe in the doctrines of Ayn Rand. I must say that  Senator Jessop,  for someone who was so upset at interjections while he was speaking, does not extend the courtesy to me which I was so gracious to extend to him even though I was subject to the greatest provocation while he discussed French brandy with us for an hour and a half. I was about to say, when  Senator Jessop  returned to the previous subject of the symposium to which he had been addressing himself earlier - 
I must confess that with witty retorts like that from  Senator Jessop  one is at a loss to know how to reply. He has me; I am nonplussed.  Senator Jessop  who strenuously objected a few moments ago to interjections I think should be reminded of the situation. We now have a Government which, along with the Government of Chile, will serve as a sort of test tube experiment for the rest of the world as to how a relatively advanced capitalist country will get on when it starts to apply the doctrines of Ayn Rand and Milton Friedman. That is what we now see being done in this country. For years people came here and talked during the adjournment debate and at question time about the communist dominated Australian Broadcasting Commission, how  Blue Hills  was driving people into the arms of Mao Tse-tung, how people going to Medibank were loafing on it, how people who got funeral benefits were death bludgers and matters of this kind. Now we actually see a government which believes that and is carrying out those policies. What we have seen the Government do during the time it has been in office, despite the undertakings it gave in December of last year, prior to that election which should never have taken place, is to reverse those principles completely. 

 Senator Jessop continues to interject. I can talk much louder than he can. Not only am I wittier, I am much noisier. I would say to  Senator Jessop  that not only is this Government of which  Senator Jessop  is one of the junior supporters reversing completely what it undertook to do but at the same time it is completing reversing what has been the consensus of every advanced Western capitalist country since Roosevelt was elected to the presidency of the United States in 1932- that is, a modern country cannot be conducted on the basis that the business of the country is solely private business. There is a substantial role for the public sector. Not only has it to see that the poor and underprivileged are protected and benefited by the State, but there are many things which can be provided only by the State and which cannot be provided by private enterprise. That is what the Labor Government did and that is what, although somewhat less enthusiastically, previous Liberal governments did in this country. It is only in recent years, when people like Reagan have achieved some prominence in the United States as political figures, that there has been any tendency in the heartland of capitalism to reverse those processes. We find that it is happening now. 
In this statement which has been delivered by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  we find that there is going to be what he euphemistically describes as a reining in of Government spending. On what are the attacks to be made? Where is the expenditure to be, as the Treasurer puts it, reined in? It is to be reined in on the environment and on regional development, on those things which the Labor Government tried to do to ensure that no longer would there be vast agglomerations of people in this huge continent living in a few square miles, with all of the problems that come from a large urban area. It is to be reined in on the efforts made to ensure that there was some decentralisation, which members of the National Party or the Country Party or whatever its name is at the moment talk about so enthusiastically but do so little about. It is to be reined in on health and on welfare. Despite the undertakings given that there would be no tampering with Medibank, we now see Medibank being demolished. 
-We now see Medibank being reduced to a shadow of what it was formerly. It is to become a complex system which I doubt very greatly  Senator Walters  could explain to us, and so far the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has been unable to explain to anybody's satisfaction. It is a system which will breed confusion and fear in the minds of all Australian people, and it will replace a system which the members of the Parties that constitute the present Government undertook during the election campaign in December of last year they would not interfere with. Expenditure is to be reined in in the arts, and nothing has shown more the Philistinism and backwardness of our opponents than their whole approach to the arts. 
I am including the Australian Broadcasting Commission in that. Not only have these unfortunate people sitting opposite attacked the alleged political partisanship of the ABC but, not satisfied with having the entire privately owned media in this country on their side, they objected strenuously when it looked as though Labor would get 50 per cent of the time on the publicly owned media. That was too much for them to take. It was too much for them that there should be one organ of opinion on which Labor got half the time. It was much too much for the members of the Liberal and National Country Parties. Beyond what may be done in the field of news and public affairs, there is also their assault on the arts and on the efforts of the Labor Government to see that all of the people of Australia were able to share in the cultural riches of modern civilisation, however rich or poor those people might be. The Labor Government tried to ensure that it was not just those people who could afford the fare to Europe or New York and so visit the Museum of Modern Art who could see great paintings or could hear opera or good music. Those were the things we tried to bring to the Australian people. 
If one thing reflected more than anything else the attitudes and at the same time the ignorance of the people who today sit in Government, it was the constant talking that we used to hear all the time about  Blue Poles.  All we could hear from them was  'Blue Poles, Blue Poles',  like the mooing of a cow at a Country Party meeting in Gippsland. I should like to refer to  Blue Poles,  because it is the sort of thing on which the present Government is not going to spend money. The Labor Government bought a painting by one of the leading painters of modern times. Many people like him; many more probably do not. But I do not think there is any significant art critic anywhere in the world who would not acknowledge that Jackson Pollock was one of the most significant and important painters in the history of painting, a man who had a tremendous impact on the whole development of art. Whether he is good or whether he is bad, his paintings are paintings that can be seen by ordinary working people in New York, in London, in Paris, in Amsterdam, in Bonn, in Vienna, in Rome, in any of the capital cities of countries with economies similar to that of Australia. We tried to ensure that such people were able to see these things in Australia. 
I notice that  Senator Townley  is giving us the benefit of his expertise in aesthetic theories. The Liberal and National Country Parties talked about the waste of money on these purchases. Of course, the money that was spent on Pollock's painting  Blue Poles  was a substantial sum of money, but I do not think there is any expert in the field of buying and selling paintings who would not say that if the Government wished to sell  Blue Poles,  as no doubt this Government will, it would be able to sell it for a considerably higher price than was paid for it. From the point of view of ordinary commercial undertaking, it was a very good buy, worth much more in dollars than was actually spent on it. 
Not only has this Government attacked matters such as that, but we see an onslaughtdespite undertakings that were given by various shadow Ministers, some of whom became caretaker Ministers, some of whom, but not all, then became real Ministers- on the moneys available for the welfare of the Aboriginal people of Australia and for legal aid. Probably next in importance to, and sometimes I think equal to, the provision of hospital and medical care for the Australian people is legal aid. It should be given the highest priority so that all people will receive the best representation in the courts of the country and obtain the best legal advice. It is no use having as a doctrine that ignorance of the law is no excuse if great masses of the people of any country are precluded from obtaining proper legal advice, and only those people who can afford it can get legal advice and those who cannot afford it cannot get legal advice. It is no use having legal rights if you do not know what those rights are, particularly if you are dealing with people who do know what their rights are. For that reason the Labor Government introduced a system of subsidised and free legal aid throughout Australia. Naturally, one would expect of Parties acting out of loyalty to their own class position- these Parties who say that there are no classes- that one of the first targets of their attack would be the Australian Legal Aid Service, which was established by a very great AttorneyGeneral in a Labor Government,  Mr Justice  Murphy. What else have these Parties attacked? 
-Senator Webster says: 'Do not make it too much of a joke '. 
-Senator Webster, as I have been reminded, is the only Minister for Science in the world who is also the  president  of a flat earth society.  Senator Webster  would be one of the first, of course, if  Sir Garfield  Barwick were to be reflected on, to say: 'What a shocking thing it is to reflect on a member of the j judiciary '. But he, as the Minister supposed to be upholding the Constitution through the Executive, is only too happy to reflect on a member of the Bench of the High Court if that member of the High Court Bench was once a member of the Australian Labor Party. 
-That is right. As  Senator Douglas  McClelland said,  Sir Garfield  Barwick is not the only member of the High Court who has been a member of a political party. In fact there are others there. There is one other, the Chief Justice, who was a member of the Liberal Party, and we have heard no aspersions cast on him by anybody including members of the Labor Party. We have not done that. The other assault which has been made by this Government is on child care, something which goes to the very heart of our society. Something of the greatest importance to developing a proper Australia is provision for the care of the children of this country. As one would expect, again this has been subject to the hatchet in this mini Budget or whatever it is being called. It has been done in order to reduce Government spending. 
I was one of the Ministers in the last Government who were in favour of a reduction in public spending. I believed that the level of nonprofitable public spending, that is to say public spending on such things as welfare which do not produce a return, had reached too high a percentage of the gross national product of Australia. I do not dispute that, but it was not because of some principle that there should not be public spending that I or the other members of the Labor Government were agreeable to cuts being made in public spending. It was a temporary expedient. It was not an article of faith as it is with the present Government. Members of the present Government tell us that they are doing it because it is a means of fighting inflation. No doubt in the short term it is a means of fighting inflation, but at the same time one can only be bewildered as to how. I am waiting for someone to explain to me how it is, if we are fighting inflation, the Prime Minister tells us to go out and spend. I know that the Prime Minister is greatly impressed by the synopses of Milton Friedman's economics which he has read in the Reader's Digest. I know the synopses can be very persuasive, but at the same time I believe that there are certain fallacies, with the greatest of respect to the Head of the Department of Economics at the University of Chicago, in what he said. He has used the wonderful example of how, when the Confederate printing works that printed the currency was captured during the American Civil War, there was a shortage of money and therefore inflation stopped in the Confederate states, proving that the amount of money that is being printed is directly related to the level of inflation. Of course one does not need to be Joan Robertson to be able to point out that it is not only the volume of money that is being printed; it is also the velocity of movement of that money. 

 President Ford was saying if I remember correctly I think his advisers, on the whole, would be a little more sophisticated than those of  Mr Fraser-  only a short while ago in the United States of America when he was running his rather ill-fated WIN campaign- the Whip Inflation Now campaign- that people should not go out and spend because to do so would increase the rate of turnover of money and that in itself increased inflation. If inflation is the primary evil and everything else- childcare, legal aid, health, Aborigines, unemployment- must all be sacrificed to this great goal of destroying inflation, how does one explain the proposition that we should all go out and spend? It has not been explained to me yet and I am waiting to hear somebody explain it to us later. 
What the Government has done with this Budget is to bring into force its own prejudices and its own basic fears of that strange world that it finds impossible to accept, that world which Franklin Roosevelt accepted right back in 1932 and which the American people on the whole have accepted ever since. Last night  Senator Lajovic,  whom I notice has now joined us, produced a whole array of demons who were waiting to destroy us. He included both Sweden and Yugoslavia amongst them. I am not constrained to say anything for or against Yugoslavia. Its government does not have any relationship with the Australian Labor Party, but he did make a passing reference to Sweden and trotted out one of these hoary old canards, saying: 'Has any honourable senator ever been to 
Sweden and seen the quality of life there? Sweden has one of the highest suicide rates in the world'. I notice that this nonsense about the high suicide rate in Sweden was repeated by some reporter in the  Australian  this morning. 
I am reminded of a pamphlet I read not so long ago, produced not by the Swedish Labour Party but by the Swedish Employers Federation, which discussed this matter. They said they were a little puzzled as to how it could be established that welfare in Sweden had produced a high rate of inflation. Were those who made this claim suggesting that a 73-year-old person who was not receiving an old age pension would be less likely to commit suicide than a 73-year old person who was receiving an old age pension? Were they suggesting that somebody who had a house with heating and was going to get unemployment benefit if he was out of work, was more likely to commit suicide than someone who did not have a house, did not have any heating and did not receive unemployment benefit? In fact as they showed quite clearly, the suicide rate in Sweden has remained static since about 1890 when there was in office there a very conservative government which would have been to  Senator Lajovic  's liking. The suicide rate has not changed in any way by the election to office nearly 50 years ago of the Swedish Social Democratic Labour Party which has remained in office ever since. Despite these stories about suicide, Sweden has the highest per capita gross national product of any country in the world, excluding a few Arab emirates where it is impossible to make any relevant assessment. It is higher than that of the United States. Nearly 50 years of Labour government in Sweden have given Sweden the highest standard of living in the world. 
I would like to say something about this nonsense of the suicide rate that we keep hearing all the time. I checked the figures today just to refresh my memory. The Swedish suicide rate figures, on a comparison with comparable European countries, fall below those of Hungary, Finland, Austria, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, West Germany and Switzerland and the rate of 21.7 is barely higher than that of Australia with a rate of 19.6. If the same statistical methods that are used in Sweden whereby all fatal car accidents in which only one driver is involved are automatically included as suicides, as are other occurrences of that kind, were to be used in other countries, one would find that there is a much higher suicide rate under a Liberal Government in Australia than there is under a Labour government in Sweden. In fact even without making that statistical adjustment, the suicide rate in Sydney is considerably higher than the suicide rate in Stockholm. I mention that only in passing because this is pan of the general plethora of nonsense that we have to listen to whenever there is a debate of this kind about the evils of socialism. 
We have seen develop in most western capitalist countries over the past 30 years or 40 years a consensus whether or not one supports an extension of public enterprise and ownership. In Sweden 90 per cent of the economy is in private ownership. There was very little change in this regard going to be made within Australia under the Labor Government, however desirable many of us may think that should be. There has been a consensus that one of the most essential roles of the state is to see that the poor, the sick and in fact all citizens are protected in their basic needs and that the state plays a role to see that everybody is entitled to the fruits of education and to the fruits of the culture of the civilisation within which they live. This Government has set out to destroy those objectives and to destroy those achievements. It has used arguments to justify this destruction which themselves are internally inconsistent and which they have not been able to explain either to the satisfaction of this Parliament or to the satisfaction of the Australian people. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Minister may remember that on 19 May last I asked him a question without notice relating to a statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs some weeks ago that he had been given assurances by the Indonesian Government that there would be a genuine act of self determination in East Timor before any steps were taken to amalgamate East Timor with the Republic of Indonesia. As the Minister would no doubt know, I have now received a written reply from him dated 1 June. I received the letter this morning. It is signed 'R. W. Withers'. I take it that that is the Minister writing under an alias and not some other person. 
-The letter has 'R. W. Withers' typed on it. It was a little bewildering to me when I received it. The Minister may recollect that his reply in the letter that he has written to me is to the effect that assurances have been given by the co-called Provisional Government of East Timor that any steps that are taken in this act of self determination which is described in the letter would include representatives of the United Nations and that, according to the letter, it is understood that invitations have been or are soon to be conveyed to the special representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations,  Mr Winspeare  Guicciardi, and to the United 
Nations Decolonisation Committee for this purpose. As this letter was written to me yesterday, as the Indonesian Government has already said that the act of self determination has taken place and as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said that the United Nations did not take part and that, for that reason, Australia would not be represented at the ceremony in Dili, can the Minister explain to me precisely what is going on. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Can the Minister explain how the contents of the following letter dated 1 June 1976 from the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs can be understood in the light of the Government's decision made before the date of the letter to refuse to be represented at the recent ceremonies in Dili relating to the incorporation of East Timor into the Republic of Indonesia: 1 June 1976 
Dear  Senator Wheeldon, 
I refer to the question which you directed to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs on 19 May 1976: 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. He may recall, during the time that he has been giving some attention to this portfolio, that several weeks ago the Minister for Foreign Affairs, after speaking to members of the Indonesian Government, said that he had been given assurances by the Indonesian Government that there would be an act of genuine self determination by the people of East Timor. I wonder whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs has received any further advice from the Indonesian Government as to how arrangements for that act of self determination are progressing. 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs has supplied the following answer to your question: 
The 'Provisional Government of East Timor' has outlined the procedures they envisage for a process of self determination in East Timor. These are to entail the formation of a Peoples Assembly to be made up of representatives from each of East Timor's thirteen administrative districts. It is understood that the nomination of representatives has begun and that the Assembly will meet in Dili within the next few weeks. According to the statement delivered by the representative of the 'PGET' to the United Nations Security Council on 12 April, the Assembly will be charged with determining the future political status of East Timor. Further elaboration has been provided by another 'PGET' representative,  Mr Mario  Carrascalao, at a press conference in Jakarta on 4 May. He indicated that, were the decision of the Peoples Assembly to favour integration with Indonesia, that decision, in the form of a petition, would be conveyed to the Indonesian Government and Parliament. 
The procedures outlined by the 'PGET' have been generally confirmed by Indonesian officials. They have also stated that, in the event that a petition seeking integration is received, the Indonesian Parliament and Government would still need to conduct their own investigations amongst the people of East Timor to ascertain their wishes. 
Both the Indonesian Government and the 'PGET' have stated their wish for United Nations participation in the process of self determination. It is understood that invitations have been or are soon to be conveyed to the United Nations Secretary-General's special representative  (Mr 
Winspeare-Guicciardi) and to the United Nations Decolonisation Committee for this purpose. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs seen a report that a group of French people, who apparently are well informed on these matters, have addressed an inquiry to the leader of the French Socialist Party, Monsieur Mitterrand, to the effect that Prince Norodom Sihanouk and members of his family have been murdered by the present Cambodian Government? In view of the humanitarian interest that one should take in these matters and also so that we can understand what is happening in Cambodia will the Minister cause inquiries to be made into the truth or otherwise of this allegation? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. He may remember that 2 weeks ago I asked him whether the Government had any information as to the fate or the whereabouts of Prince Norodom Sihanouk and members of his family, who it has been reported have been murdered by the present Cambodian Government. At the time the Minister said that he would try to obtain this information from the Department of Foreign Affairs. I wonder whether any information has yet been forthcoming? 
The annual opportunity for a debate on the Budget provides a chance for members of Parliament to do 2 things: The first is to act, for the most part, as unqualified public accountants perusing the statements of receipts and expenditure which the Government provides, and the second is to discuss in rather broader terms the policies which are exemplified on the part of the Government by the Budget which it brings down and which divide the Government from the Opposition. On this occasion the views of the Australian Labor Party are very admirably contained in the terms of the amendment which has been proposed by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate,  Senator Wriedt,  that is, that the Senate condemns the Budget because: 
1 ) it pursues a policy of unemployment as a weapon to reduce real wages and salaries; 
2 ) it abdicates Federal Government responsibilities and forces the State governments and local governments either to reduce their services or to institute additional charges, or both; 
it introduces an additional tax in the form of the Medibank levy, thus further reducing consumer spending; 
it reduces the availability of services to the whole community but particularly those most vulnerable to hardship notably Aborigines, the unemployed and migrants; and 
it fails to institute selective stimulatory expenditure to reduce unemployment and restore consumer confidence. 
This Budget marks a very significant departure not only from the policies which were pursued by the Labor Government during its less than 3 years of office but also, in emphasis, the policies that were followed, however inadequately, for 23 years by the Liberal-Country Party Government which preceded the election of Labor in 1972. 
In referring briefly to some of the hardships which are imposed by the Budget I should like to mention, first of all, what has been done in the field of health and social welfare. Expenditure in real terms on health services has been reduced by some 12 per cent over the last year of expenditure under the Federal Labor Government. It is equivalent to an expenditure of $ 165m annually and it affects particularly adversely the community health program, the school dental program and the family planning program. The situation is compounded by the fact that the Hospitals and Health Services Commission, which we understand is shortly to be abolished, has estimated that some 15 to 20 per cent of Australians are living in areas which have totally inadequate community health services. 
The school dental services program has been allocated $ 1 m less in 1976-77 than was allocated to it in previous years- again, as the words of the amendment point out, imposing a severe hardship on young Australians who are least able to bear the brunt of these dramatic changes. The family planning services budget has been reduced in real terms by one-half. The health services for Aborigines have been allocated Sim less than in 1975-76 despite the fact that the present Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott),  when he was the Opposition spokesman on Aboriginal Affairs, promised before the last general election that there would be no cut whatsoever in the moneys to be made available for Aboriginal services. Probably most importantly of all in that field, again despite promises that were made before the last general election by the people who now constitute the Government, Medibank which was accepted by the people, which was voted for on 2 occasions in Federal elections and which was introduced as a result of a joint sitting of both Houses of this Parliament, has been so mutilated as to be unrecognisable. I defy anybody on the Government side, including the Leader of the Government in the Senate, to stand up and explain to us exactly what is going on with Medibank. I have very grave doubts whether  Senator Withers  yet knows whether he is going to take out additional cover with Medibank or with a private health fund. As I said, this was done contrary to promises that were given and was done as pan of a general program of undermining health services for the Australian people. 
The same approach had been taken in the field of education, which has already been dealt with very adequately by members of the Labor Party in the Senate. The moneys available for the education of the Australian people have been slashed in a most outrageous manner. We see this happening in all sorts of other fields. We see it in the arts where the Philistines who inveighed so heavily against  Blue Poles  have now come into their own and we will be back where we were, a tepid little backwater in the Antipodes where the people are unable to appreciate the Western heritage- that Western civilisation we hear so much about from the Government supporters- in the way in which people in comparable countries in other parts of the world are able to do. 
We have seen the most extraordinary activities in the Australian Broadcasting Commission, to which  Sir Henry  Bland, not hitherto noted as a connoisseur of the arts or, for that matter, entertainmentparticularly entertainment, I would think- has now been appointed in order to demolish that Commission. I find myself in something of a cleft stick on his first action with regard to  Alvin Purple.  I had the misfortune to watch 5 minutes on one occasion and  Vh  minutes on another occasion of episodes of that program. I had a rather nostalgic feeling on looking at it. It reminded me of the jokes we used to tell when we were in third infants at Nedlands State School. I do not think it is for those reasons that  Sir Henry  has taken the action that he took. I imagine that it was not because of aesthetic reasons or because he is noted as a wit and has a more Rabelaisian or Balzacian approach to scatological humour, but rather because of a desire to save money and because he has been receiving the communiques we all receive from the Festival of Light. I do not intend to dwell on this matter. I merely wish to say that the attack on the ABC- I must confess if one were to attack the ABC one could not pick a better mark than  Alvin Purple- is  part of an attack on something which the Australian people have become used to, that is, that the Commonwealth, through a statutory corporation, the Australian Broadcasting Commission, should be providing to the Australian people entertainment and education of a type which they could not expect to obtain from commercial radio and television stations which operate only on the basis of making profits. 
Much more serious than anything that has been done with the unfortunate  Alvin Purple  program has been the decision of the Government not to extend frequency modulation radio beyond Sydney, Melbourne, Canberra and Adelaide. That is a much more serious matter than the shenanigans of  Alvin Purple  with these weak attempts of humour. FM radio can be found in practically every country in the world, not only Western countries but also countries with a considerably lower material standard of living than Australia. However isolated, those countries have been able to appreciate through FM radio the finest music which our civilisation has produced. It is not an expensive medium to operate and yet we are now told that despite the undertakings given, the people of Western Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and those outside the metropolitan areas of the other 3 States, will not be able to have the benefits of FM radio in the way in which people throughout almost the whole world- in countries much poorer than Australia- are able to have them. 
In other fields, such as the field of housing, there have been the same cutbacks. These have been dealt with by other members of the Opposition. I do not intend to go through the details which we have all heard at considerable length over the past several weeks. Why is this being done? It is being done for several reasons. It is being done because the Government believes- to a certain extent, I think correctly believes- that one cannot continue to have public expenditure operating at a level beyond which the private enterprise economy can alford to maintain that public expenditure. The former Labor Government, in the last Budget it introduced, which as honourable senators may remember was passed in a most extraordinary manner in the Senate, provided for a cutback in the rate of increase in Government expenditure. I make no apology for saying that I was one of the Ministers who believed during the last 6 months or year of the Labor Government's administration that we had to apply the brakes to public expenditure, that we could not continue to increase it at the rate at which we had been increasing it. 
There is no doubt that to operate a private enterprise economy those people who engage in business have to have some reasonable expectation of profits. If the level of taxation becomes too high they will not continue to carry on their business in the way which is necessary in order to see that the business of the country is satisfactorily conducted and at the same time the imposition of taxation will be passed on in various ways which will cause inflation which in turn causes unemployment. I do not dispute that. But I believe that this Government goes far beyond upholding that principle. It goes far beyond saying that from time to time a brake has to be applied to public expenditure within a private enterprise economy. What is significant about this Budget is that it is probably the first Budget presented outside post-coup Chile in which the ideology of the woman who is mis-described as a philosopher, Miss Ayn Rand, and Professor Friedman of the University of Chicago, is, in fact, being applied. A lot of slogans go with their doctrines. One is to the effect that there is no such thing as a free lunch, although, for some reason, it is always put in the form: 'There aint no such thing as a free lunch. ' 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
-For the benefit of those honourable senators who missed the first instalment of this serial, I was saying before the luncheon adjournment that what is significant about the Budget now before the Parliament is that it shows a radical departure from principles which had been followed not only by the previous Labor Government but also by previous Liberal and National Country Party Governments, although somewhat inadequately, during the previous 23 years in which they held office. Although the Labor Party would not deny that there needed to be a reduction in certain forms of public expenditure- indeed, while we were in government we endeavoured to do something about it- in order to deal with the inflationary problem facing Australia and the lack of productivity which was taking place because of taxation, which doubtless in certain sectors was too high to maintain productive industry, there is much more involved in the approach of the present Government than a mere accounting procedure. In fact the economics of Professor Milton Friedman and the philosophy, if you can grace it with that word, of Miss Ayn Rand are being applied to this country. 
I mentioned the slogan which apparently has been acquired. It is to the effect that 'there ain't no such thing as a free lunch'. The purport of that rather illiterate but apparently whimsical statement is that somebody has to pay for everything and therefore nobody should be paying for social services or for things for which those who use them do not pay. 
I was not going to deal with that subject but doubtless someone may touch on it later. There is an ideological position which has been enunciated pretty clearly by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and a number of his supporters. It is to the effect that the business of government is business. In fact they are using that slogan of the unfortunate Calvin Coolidge and his successor,  Mr Herbert  Hoover, that America's business is business; that provided you have an unrestricted market economy everything will work out for the best and that the market place is the best place to resolve all priorities and all needs. 
I think this has been shown quite clearly in this Budget by the attitude adopted towards education, housing and social security. This Government is trying to return to the world of Adam Smith whose doctrines were not successful even in the 18th Century, let alone the 20th Century. They were not successful in the 18th Century when there was an opportunity for practically any person to become a small businessman with a cottage industry. They are completely inapplicable in modern industrial society where there has to be a small group of people who have the power and the ownership of the means of production, distribution and exchange concentrated in their few hands. 
The effect of the cutting back of public expenditure has been two-fold. The first has been the immediate economic consequence which has been felt throughout Australia. I suppose it has been felt nowhere more severely than in Canberra where we are at the moment. That consequence resulted from the strange belief to which the Government seems to subscribe- that it can somehow turn back the clock, that it can act as if we were right back at the beginning of industrial civilisation and that it can decide that we are going to have a completely capitalist market economy. 
Whether one likes it or not, Australia is a mixed economy. There is a very substantial sector of public enterprise already existing in this country- in fact there has been since the origins of Australia. Australia was founded by public enterprise- the public enterprise of convicts. I am not discussing the merits of whether there should or should not have been convicts, but the origins of this country were brought about by the use of public enterprise and not private enterprise. The settlements could not have taken place at that time without British government intervention. Deeply embedded in the economy of this country are public works activities- all sorts of activities by public departments. 
Just to take one instance, the cutting back of public expenditure had a most damaging effect on the building industry because a large part of it, even though it is in private hands, has depended upon government contracts for its existence. To say that the Government somehow is encouraging private enterprise, particularly in building and in very large areas of the manufacturing and service industries, by cutting back on public expenditure is nonsense. The cutbacks in so many fields which this Government has followed already have had dire effects on building, construction and manufacturing industry throughout this country. The pattern already established in Canberra in the Australian Capital Territory is, I suggest, likely to be repeated, like an arithmetic progression, throughout the rest of Australia the longer this Government continues it present policy. 
What is much more serious than the immediate economic consequences of the cuts in public expenditure is the dismay, the disenchantment, the disgust which they have caused amongst great masses of the Australian people. I think it was  Senator Sibraa  who said in the Senate last night that countries in which the democratic system has been preserved are almost entirely countries which have had a social democratic form of government. Those countries where democracy is strongest are countries in which fraternal parties of the Australian Labor Party, parties affiliated with the socialist internationale, are either in government or have been in government for very long periods. I notice that  Senator Walters,  on the government side, is shaking her head in disagreement, but I would like to mention those countries where there are social democratic parties, parties which are members of the socialist internationale in government. Those are all countries in which democracy is strongest. They are West Germany, Austria, Denmark, Sweden - 
-Oh yes they are, very much indeed. I do not wish to appear arrogant towards  Senator Walters  but if I may say so I can assure her that my knowledge of the Austrian, Belgian, Norwegian and West German social democratic parties and the British Labour Party is much more intimate than hers. I do not say that in any way offensively. I can assure her that in many respects the policies of the Australian Labor Party are very innocuous indeed when compared with the policies followed not only by the British Labour Party but also by parties such as the Austrian Socialist Party. She may wish to see their record of progress. In Austria, for example, where 45 per cent of industry is nationalised, I would suggest to her that much more progress has been made in the direction of socialism than has ever been made in Australia or has even been proposed by the Australian Labor Party. 
-Senator Walters can talk about it later; I want to continue what I am saying at the moment. Those countries in which there are parties affiliated with the socialist internationale, if I may repeat them and complete the list, are West Germany, Austria, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Finland, the Netherlands, Belgium, Israel, Malta, Great Britain and Portugal. Other countries in which there are social democratic parties as members of a coalition include the Republic of Ireland and various countries throughout the West Indies. All these countries are democratic countries. The only major democratic countries, apart from Australia, and New Zealand where there has been a recent change, in which there are not parties affiliated with the socialist internationale in office are the United States of America and Canada, but even in Canada 2 provinces, Manitoba and Saskatchewan, have socialist governments. In all these countries there has been a long period of gradual change from the son of capitalist system and its ideology which is now being embraced by this Government; and the ruthless doctrines of people such as Milton Friedman and Ayn Rand are not being applied. Without destroying the rule of law and without destroying the nile of parliament, the great masses of the people of those countries, including the working people and the poor people, are given a share in the wealth of the country in which they live and work. 
If the Government wants to turn back the clock and to say that that no longer is to be the case and that it will be the law of the jungle once again, Australia will be placed in the same sort of situation as that which produced the upheaval which destroyed democracy in Europe in the 1920s and 1930s. What destroyed democracy in Europe in the 1920s and 1930s was the unemployment and the deprivation which the great masses of the people were suffering. Some of them turned to communism; some of them turned to fascism. Democracy can function only when there is not a significant number of people who are living in the sort of poverty in which they will be living if this Government continues its present policies. 
I do not dispute that, as a French newspaper recently said of the Government of Jamaica which is having financial difficulties, a country cannot be run on a policy of socialist expenditure but private revenue. I agree that this country was faced with difficulties because of the taxation burdens which were being placed on private enterprise. I do not believe that there is any dispute about that. I am not one of those who subscribes to the conspiracy theory of history. At the same time, I think that private enterprise in Australia was involved in what could be described as something of a conspiracy to destroy the Labor Government. There certainly are countries which have much more lavish social services and much higher expenditure on education and health than Australia has. Many of those countries have a much higher level of personal and company taxation than Australia has. Private enterprise in those countries has been able to flourish. I admit that there are difficulties in that situation; I do not dispute that. 
In Australia we need a radical change in the economic system. There needs to be a move towards public enterprise. We made some small efforts in that direction while we were in office. They were bitterly resisted by the Liberal Party. I will refer to one of them. It was in the field of insurance. We talk about all the things which cause inflation. What could be more inflationary than the present, ever increasing, shocking charges for all forms of general insurance, particularly those essential forms of general insurance such as third party motor vehicle insurance and workers compensation insurance? Why is there such a rapid increase in premiums for this form of insurance which imposes all sorts of burdens on employers and workers throughout Australia? It is because of the total inadequacy of the private enterprise insurance system to meet the needs of the Australian people. 
If all public expenditure and all public enterprise are to be in the form of paying out by way of pensions and hospital benefits, this will impose a burden of some sort on the economy. It may well be a burden that we can bear, but it is not necessary for all public enterprise to be like that. There are precedents in this country, without looking overseas, where public enterprise has been highly profitable. Again I refer to the field of insurance. The government insurance offices of New South Wales and Queensland are highly profitable. Both of them are playing a role in keeping down premiums, in keeping down the price of insurance and in fighting inflation. Those are policies which the Australian Labor Party supported. 
The present Government's policies are, on the one hand, to demolish our social welfare system and, on the other hand, to allow a return to the law of the jungle in private enterprise by not proceeding with legislation to control corporations and the exchange of securities. Even in the United States such legislation was adopted more than 40 years ago. The Government's policies will cause even further rifts in this society. They will weaken the system which the Government claims it wants to preserve. They will hammer another nail in the coffin of Australian democracy, which already has been badly damaged by the disgraceful events that occurred last year in this Parliament and elsewhere. By this Government acerbating class distinctions in this country, returning to the Coolidge-Hoover policies and the outmoded, outdated and eminently unsuccessful Adam Smith policies, and turning to the policies of Milton Friedman, which clearly do not work even in Chile where they have a military junta backing them up, the economic system of this country will fail, there will be dire poverty amongst substantial sections of the Australian people and even more irreparable damage will be done to the already badly damaged democratic system of this country. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Kilgariff)  adjourned. 
It is not my practice to delay the proceedings of the Senate by speaking on the adjournment motion unless I think there is something of some considerable importance that ought to be raised. I believe that this is the case this evening. With other members of the Australian Parliament I was recently in India for a period of approximately a week. Certain episodes which were drawn to my attention while I was in that country and subsequently are such that I believe they should be raised within this Parliament. 
I wish to say first of all that I was there as a guest of the Government of India and was treated with the greatest courtesy and consideration while I was in that country. Certainly no hindrances were placed in my way in doing anything that I wished to do while I was within India. I certainly feel very great reluctance in accepting the hospitality, as I did, of another country and immediately after having received that hospitality being critical of the Government which was my host while I was in that country. But I feel obliged to do so on this occasion. 
I might say in passing that I have always regarded myself as a friend of India. I believe that India is a great country with great traditions. I think that particularly over the past 30 years during which India has had its independence it has been one of the great bastions of the democratic system. That India, the second largest country in the world in terms of population, a country with some 600 million inhabitants, a country with almost every difficulty that could beset any country, a country of endemic poverty and vast problems of over-population, with terrible problems of differences of religion, ethnic origin, caste and language, has been able not only to stay together as a nation in a peaceful way which I think would be a model to many other countries where the sectarian differences are much smaller than they are in India but where there has been much greater violence, has been a great credit to the Indian people and to the governments which have been in office in India during that period. 
Certainly any criticisms that I have to make now would not be to the effect that the Government of India is engaging in any racial or religious persecution. I imagine that there is no Moslem in India who could complain about his treatment by the Government of that country. Certainly the same could be said, I believe, of any of the other smaller religious groups. I have heard no complaints of persecution from Christians in India, or from Parsees, Jains, Buddhists or any of the other religious denominations which are to be found in that country. In fact, I believe that the Indian Government has leaned over backwards to show that it will not discriminate against people whatever their origin. AngloIndians, Eurasians or anybody else, I believe, cannot say that they have been discriminated against. In fact, even if we take a small community such as the Jewish community, we find that there are about 4 synagogues at the present time in Bombay. Although India has generally supported the Arab position on the Middle East, no one can claim that there has been any interference with the rights of the Jewish inhabitants of India. In fact General Jacobs, who commanded the Indian troops in the recent war in Bangladesh, is Jewish. 
I would not suggest for one moment that in any way the Indian Government is departing from any of those high principles which it has followed while it has been in office. What I would suggest to the Senate is that something very serious is happening in India, that is, that there is a very steady erosion of the democratic parliamentary system within that country. I do not believe that the progression in this unfortunate direction has as yet reached the stage where India could be condemned by comparison with a great many other countries. Certainly if India were compared with China or the Soviet Union or, for that matter, with its neighbour Pakistan or with the Philippines or Spain or most of the countries in Latin America, India indeed is a very democratic country and it probably still ranks amongst the most democratic countries in the world. 
What is tragic about India is that the tendency is away from parliamentary democracy and the rule of law. For that reason I believe it is doubly tragic. What makes it even more tragic is that 
India, this great country, has been the example which democrats throughout the world have been able to quote to those who have said that it is only a few rich people in Sweden, New Zealand, Canada or Switzerland who can afford to have the parliamentary democratic system and that as long as there are real economic and communal difficulties democracy does not work. I believe India has shown that it could work. Although the rate of progress towards economic justice has undoubtedly been very slow and there are very many poor people and very many underprivileged people in that country, progress has been made and that progress has been made within a democratic system. In the past year, since 26 June 1975 when the emergency was proclaimed by the Indian Government, I believe it is becoming increasingly the case that one can no longer make the same boast about Indian democracy that one could make previously. 
While we were in India where, as I have said, we were treated with the greatest courtesy, we were given quite a considerable amount of time with the Indian Prime Minister,  Mrs Gandhi,  a person for whom in the past I think all of us have had the greatest respect. 
When I met her, I raised with her the matter of  Mr George  Fernandes,  chairman  of the Indian Socialist Party and  president  of the All-India Railwaymen 's Association. I do not intend to dwell on the matter of  Mr Fernandes  because I know that  Senator Sibraa  wishes to say something about this matter also.  Mr Fernandes  is today before the court. I am concerned about the case of  Mr Fernandes.  I do not know whether the allegations that he was carrying explosives or conspiring with people to set off explosives are true or false. I have no idea. I have never met him. But these allegations have now been made against him. Other allegations have been made against him as well. I believe that this is what is very serious. For example, in a report from the  Times of India  of 25 September, it is mentioned in the course of the charges which were being laid against  Mr Fernandes  in the New Delhi Chief Magistrate's Court that, amongst the acts which should apparently be regarded as offensive to the Government and people of India was the fact that a certain person had been secretly carrying abroad with him letters from  Mr Fernandes  addressed to some foreign dignitaries and organisations like the Socialist International seeking their help and support. 
It seems to me that the very fact that a matter such as that is raised at all in the course of a charge being heard against a man for a criminal offence, shows already a most serious tendency within that country. Why should not the  chairman  of the Indian Socialist Party communicate messages to Willy Brandt or Bruno Kreisky or the general secretary of the Socialist International, the party with which his party is affiliated and with which the Australian Labor Party is affiliated also.  His  is not the only case which gives grounds for concern. If I may say so- I say this with the greatest respect- I did not receive a satisfactory reply from  Mrs Gandhi  to the matter which I raised with her regarding  Mr Fernandes. 
I have just recently received a letter which was written by Lord Fenner Brockway, a Labor member of the British House of Lords, a man who for many years advocated freedom for India. He has raised the matter of  Mr M.  S. Hoda; a symbolical, to use Lord Fenner Brockway's word. Lord Fenner Brockway said that  Mr Hoda  was the secretary of the International Transport Workers Federation and representative in Britain of the Socialist Party of India. He had done noteworthy constructive social work in India and had strongly supported Indira Gandhi in the past. Lord Fenner Brockway went on to say that  Mr Hoda's  duties required him to travel abroad but the Indian Government had impounded his passport apparently because he had been active in Britain on behalf of the prisoners in India. That is one more example. 
At the present time there are approximately 30 members of the National Parliament of India being held in prison under the emergency. Those imprisoned cover a whole gamut of political parties, from the Swatantra Party, the conservative private enterprise party; through the Jana Sangh, a very right-wing Hindu communal party; through the Socialist Party of India; through the Congress (O)- the Congress Party (Organisation), the Opposition Congress Partythrough to the Communist Party (Marxist), a party which broke with the Soviet Union some years ago. The only political parties which are supporting the Congress Party of the Government in the actions that it is taking are the Communist Party of India, the pro-Moscow Communist Party- without trying to judge why it is doing these things, I would imagine that the foreign policy interests of the Soviet Union would play some part in it- and the Moslem League, a small communal party representing the Moslems who apparently, for whatever reason, do not wish to become involved in a serious disagreement with the Government. All of the other major political parties and movements, including the bulk of the trade union movement in India, are opposed to the present action which is being taken by the Indian Government. 
Amongst those people who are being detained or who have been detained under the emergencysome have been released from time to time- are one of Mahatma Gandhi's closest collaborators, a former  Deputy  Prime Minister of India,  Mr Morarji  Desai, who is at present still in detention;  Mr Basu,  the  Chairman  of the Communist Party of India (Marxist)- honourable senators can see that those imprisoned cover a wide range of political views because  Mr Desai  was quite a conservative Indian nationalistmembers of the Socialist Party;  Mr Modi  of the Swatantra Party and members of practically every other Opposition party. There are many thousands of people at present being held in India under the detention provisions of the emergency. 
A Bill is now before the Parliament to amend the Constitution of India. I do not wish to go into great detail on this matter, but there are two or three very significant provisions in this Bill. The first, but perhaps the least important although very important indeed, is that the right will be taken away from the Supreme Court of India to adjudicate on matters relating to amendments to the Indian Constitution. There will be no judicial authority to supervise the validity of consti.tutional amendments insofar as they deal with the basic human rights which have been guaranteed in the past within the Indian Constitution. . Another proposal is to the effect that the  President  of India- another constitutional amendment makes it clear that the  President  of India can act only on the advice of the Government of India- can amend the Constitution for a period of 2 years; that is to say, for all intents and purposes the executive government has the right to amend the Constitution. Another very important provision is that in the event of a state of emergency being imposed- either any future state of emergency or the current state of emergencythere will be no recourse to the courts with regard to the preservation of the basic human rights which in the past have been guaranteed within the Indian Constitution, which have been one of the bulwarks of the Indian Constitution and which, I would suggest, has been one of the reasons why in India in the past there has been such tolerance and such harmony, when we consider the difficulties between the various communal groups within that country. 
I do not wish to insult and deride the Indian Government, but I do believe that those people who believe in the democratic system, people who are not enemies of India, should make it clear to India that we are very seriously disturbed about what is happening in that country. Already, a number of people and organisationsI would name the Socialist International itself- have protested about the treatment of the Indian Socialist Party in particular but of other political parties in general. There have been protests from other people. Recently a group of leading West Germans including Guenther Grass, the German novelist, and Max Frisch, the Swiss novelist who has been a leading fighter for civil liberties both in Eastern Europe and Western Europe, have conveyed their protests to the Indian Government. I believe that we have an obligation to do the same. 
The argument has been put forward that the emergency is' necessary because of the desperate conditions which at present prevail in India. I believe that this claim can be refuted by the fact that in the past in India when there were wars on two occasions with Pakistan and on another occasion with China, the Indian Government never found it necessary to impose any emergency. I believe that there are other domestic reasons relating to the insecurity of the present Government in India, primarily as a result of the recent Gujarat State elections in India in which the Indian Government Party was badly defeated by the Opposition parties which has led it to believe that there were some prospects of its being defeated in the coming elections for the National Parliament. Therefore they want to prevent that happening by imposing an emergency, by delaying the elections and by amending the Constitution. Also this action has been taken to overcome a decision which was taken by the Supreme Court of India- rightly or wrongly I do not know- that the Prime Minister of India was not eligible, in effect, to continue in the office of Prime Minister. I think that the actions that she has subsequently taken were a very severe blow to the democratic system in that country by her not accepting the decision of the court on this matter. I believe that this action in itself has assisted in the undermining of democracy in India. I wish to prolong the matter no further, only to say that what is happening in India is causing great distress to democratic people throughout the world. As has been seen in other countries, once you start off on the road of taking away the constitutional rights of people by whittling down democracy it is usually an unending process. It goes on and on until there is no democracy left at all. 
I would like to conclude by quoting from a statement which was issued by the National 
Committee for Review of the Constitution, a group of members of the various opposition parries in India. I believe these words are most pertinent to the situation. It states: 
It is well known that the emergency provisions of the Wiemar Constitution were misused in Germany by Hitler to establish his personal dictatorship. When the Constitution of India was drafted, it was perhaps never envisaged that emergency would become a constant feature of the national life and the safeguard against the abuse of emergency powers would be nullified by a systematic erosion of checks and balances provided in the Constitution such as a free press, judicial review and fundamental rights. Exercise of emergency powers particularly during the last one year has demonstrated the need for a thorough review of the emergency provisions so as to provide effective safeguards to protect the interests of the people against arbitrary and oppressive actions of the executive. 
The constitutional changes proposed by the Swaran Singh Committee - 
That is the Committee that made the recommendations regarding the constitutional amendments- are calculated to emasculate the concept of checks and balances in respect of the exercise of executive authority by seriously diminishing the scope of judicial review. It is not difficult to envisage that once the powers of independent courts are eliminated  from  such a vital- field as elections, the very concept of free and fair elections would disappear and peoples" right to govern themselves would be seriously compromised. 
Elections have been promised by. the Government, but as they will be held, so it seems, during the state of emergency, it will be an offence for people to comment on the emergency during their candidature. Through the censorship it will not be possible for reports of Opposition speeches to be circulated throughout the country. Opposition members will be able to hold meetings but only in halls of a limited size where a very small number of people in a country of 600 million will ever be able to hear what the Opposition is saying. I am not suggesting that we should engage in violent abuse of India, but I believe that members of this Parliament, by whatever means they have available, should make it clear to the Indian Government and its representatives that we are disturbed about what is happening there; that we are alarmed by the fact that democracy appears to be in the process of being destroyed in India. At the same time we should express to them the hope that the very high regard all democratic people have held for India over the last 30 years will not be destroyed by the arbitrary actions which have been taken over the past year. It is not yet too late. In a year's time, if the present process continues, it well could be too late. 
I, too, wish to direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the matter of East Timor. I am not for the moment disputing what the Minister has said, and that is that the policy of the Government has not changed, but in view of the fact that since the original statements were made earlier this year the Prime Minister has visited Indonesia and as it does appear that the Indonesian Government has construed, possibly quite incorrectly, things that were said as being a statement of support by the Australian Government for the Indonesian occupation of East Timor and its incorporation into Indonesia, will the Government consider making a further statement reaffirming Australian pokey on the question of East Timor so that there will not be any confusion on this subject? If, in fact, as has been said, the Indonesian Government has been assured that the Australian policy has not been altered this will not occasion any distress to the Indonesian Government but will make it completely clear to everybody else that there has not been any change. I ask this question without suggesting' that there has been a change but just so that any possible shred of doubt can be removed. 
-I would like to be associated with this motion. I knew  Senator Greenwood  from the time that he entered the Senate in 1968. 1 had a great deal to do with him during that period, both in the Senate and on a number of occasions outside the Senate. As it happened, like  Senator Withers,  I stayed at the same hotel or hotels in Canberra as did  Senator Greenwood  for the entire period he was a member of the Senate, and apparently when  Senator Greenwood  was not staying up with  Senator Withers  he was staying up with me. There were many occasions on which we discussed or argued various matters until the small hours of the morning. Despite the fact that one, knowing our respective ideologies, might not have thought we would have become particularly friendly, I think there was a relationship of some cordiality which developed between us. 
In his activities in the Senate, it was not very often that I agreed with him, although there were occasions when I did agree with him. It has to be said of  Senator Greenwood  that unfortunately, unlike perhaps the majority of human beings, he always said what he meant and meant what he said. There was never the slightest doubt that when he said something that was what he believed. If he did not say something, one knew that the reason for his silence was that he did not believe in the proposition that was being put forward. There were a number of occasions on which it would have been perhaps to his advantage to temper the attitude which he adopted, but he did not do that. As  Senator Withers  mentioned, at an early stage in his political life he could well have jeopardised his career very severely by his opposition to the Communist Party dissolution referendum proposal. There were a number of occasions while he was a member of this Parliament when he did other similar things which I believe could have brought upon him some serious criticism. Nonetheless, he proceeded along the course in which he believed. 
In his personal relations outside the Parliament he was certainly a very agreeable companion. He was a person whom it was a pleasure to talk to and a pleasure to discuss matters with, and from whom one could learn a great deal. The Senate is a much poorer place through the passing of  Senator Greenwood.  During the period that he has been absent from the Senate owing to his tragic illness the debates in this chamber have not been what they were while he was here. I believe that  Senator Greenwood  represented a strand of opinion within Australian society with which I personally, and I should imagine most members of the Australian Labor Party, would not feel we have a great deal in common. Nonetheless, he represented a legitimate section of the Australian people and he ably expressed his and their opinions. When  Senator Greenwood  spoke one knew he was speaking not only on his behalf but also on behalf of a number of other people who shared the opinions he expressed. The Senate is a worse place for his absence. I personally very much regret the fact that no longer will I be able to clash with him in the Senate or talk with him after the Senate has risen. I would like also to be associated with the condolences to  Mrs Greenwood  and the members of  Senator Greenwood  's family. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Has any protest been made to the Government of the People's Republic of China regarding the nuclear bomb which was exploded by that country during the past week? If no protest has yet been made, will one be made? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Attorney-General relating to the problems besetting  Mr M.  A. Reardon, of 14 Parkinson Place, Hillarys, in Western Australia, of which the Minister is no doubt aware as they have received a great deal of Press publicity in Western Australia. By way of explanation, let me say that the facts of this matter are that  Mr Reardon  and his wife were divorced and that some weeks ago she, apparently using a passport which was improperly obtained from the British High Commission, abducted their child and travelled to Singapore with this child whom she had illegally taken. Representations were made by  Mr Reardon  to the Western Australian Minister for Justice, who applied to the Commonwealth Attorney-General for extradition proceedings to be taken in Singapore to return  Mr Reardon  's former wife, who is now  Mrs Ritzell,  and the child to Australia. On 2 1 October the Attorney-General wrote to  Mr Reardon  a letter in which he referred to the fact that he had received a request from the Western Australian Minister for Justice regarding  Mr Reardon  's former wife, Maureen Ann Ritzell, that she be surrendered from Singapore to Western Australia to face charges of disobeying a court order and child stealing. The AttorneyGeneral said: 
Only child stealing is an extradition crime. After careful consideration of this request I have come to the conclusion that extradition proceedings in this case would not be appropriate. That conclusion is in conformity with what I regard as an important principle, namely that extradition proceedings should not be used as an indirect means of obtaining or attempting to obtain custody of or access to children. The restoration of children is, I think, more properly a matter for civil proceedings. 
The Attorney-General then went on to say that he would be prepared to consider an application for  ex gratia  assistance for part of the cost of any proceedings which  Mr Reardon  might take in Singapore. As in this instance it is not so much a question of enforcing a divorce order made by the appropriate court but rather dealing with a breach of an order which amounted to child stealing- an offence which is an extradition offence- can the Minister ask the AttorneyGeneral to give further consideration to this matter in view of the fact that it is not merely a matter of civil proceedings to obtain custody in a matrimonial suit but that there has been what is or is tantamount to a criminal offence committed by the absconding former wife of  Mr Reardon?  I suggest that this is a matter which requires some further consideration, as an important principle relating to the whole question of extradition is involved and I think it deserves perhaps more consideration than has already been given to it. 
I ask the Minister for Social Security whether she has seen reports to the effect that the Royal Automobile Club of Victoria has announced that its subsidiary, RACV Insurance Pty Ltd, will be withdrawing from the field of third party motor vehicle insurance on the ground that the losses that are involved in this form of insurance are such that no private insurer can bear them, and also the remark attributed to  Sir Cecil  Looker, the  President  of the Royal Automobile Club of Victoria, that third party motor vehicle insurance is more properly a social service than a commercial insurance activity. In view of the difficulties that are being faced by third party motor vehicle insurers as well as workers compensation insurers throughout Australia, can the Minister tell us what the progress has been in the investigations by her Department into the establishment of an urgently needed national compensation scheme for Australia? 
I present the following petition from 7 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That those who have retired and those who are about to retire, are being severely and adversely affected by inflation and Australian economic circumstances. 
The continuance of the means test on pensions causes undue hardship to them. 
We call on the Government to immediately abolish the means test on all aged pensions. 
To ensure a pension for all on retirement, and a guarantee that all Australian citizens will retire with dignity. 
Acknowledge that a pension is a 'right and not a charity'. 
And your petitioners as in d uty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I feel obliged to enter this discussion in view of what  Senator Harradine  has just said. As I understand his argument, it was that certain people supported the incorporation of West Irian into Indonesia in 1962 and opposed the incorporation of former Portugese Timor into Indonesia in 1976; that this displays some inconsistency, and that the Indonesians will be disturbed if they find double standards on the part of people who supported them in 1962 and who now oppose them in 1976. The only comment I would like to make on that is that I should have thought the Indonesians would be more prepared to listen to people who supported them in the past and who oppose them now than to people who opposed them all the time. But I do not want to labour that point. 
I do wish to say something as one of those who did support the incorporation of West Irian into Indonesia in 1962 and supported it vocally for a long time before that date in many parts of Australia. Perhaps I should not say that it was in many parts of Australia. It was only in Western Australia. I did not have a gold pass at that time. Last year I opposed the alleged incorporation of former Portuguese Timor into the Republic of Indonesia. I must confess that I do not know what position  Senator Gietzelt  took in 1962, but I do remember a heated argument I had in 1961 with his brother,  Mr Ray  Gietzelt, the General Secretary of the Miscellaneous Workers Union. I was supporting the Indonesian incorporation of West Irian and he was opposing it. I do not know whether the brothers always do the same thing, but certainly on that occasion  Senator Gietzelt  's brother differed very strongly from me. Possibly 

 Mr Ray Gietzelt is one of the people whom  Senator Harradine  had in mind as a  bona fide  authority on the question. 
What I would say about the very distinct difference between the incorporation of West Irian and the incorporation of Portuguese Timor into Indonesia relates to the whole history of this situation. I think it ought to be remembered that at the time of the treaty in 1947 or 1948 between the representatives of the then Indonesian Independence Movement and the Government of The Netherlands, as a result of the efforts of the United Nations Good Officers Commission, of which the Australian representative was the  Chairman,  it was agreed- the Indonesians at that time claimed that this should be so- that the republic of Indonesia, in its territory, should be co-extensive with what until then had been The Netherlands East Indies. West Irian, western New Guinea, was part of the former Netherlands East Indies. This was the claim which the Indonesians made, and this was the claim which the Dutch accepted at the time of that treaty which they went back on. The Dutch subsequently refused to hand over West Irian to the Government of the republic of Indonesia, despite the treaty which had been entered into between the Dutch and the Indonesians. 
The overwhelming majority of members of the United Nations at that time- I know people are critical of the United Nations, but it was a much different United Nations then from what it is now- supported the Indonesian claim to West Irian. Not only that, when West Irian was ultimately incorporated into Indonesia, the man who was primarily responsible for the ultimate efforts and the ultimate negotiations which led to West Irian's incorporation was none other than  Mr Ellsworth  Bunker, a prominent official of the United States State Department who had been until very shortly before that time the United States Ambassador to Indonesia. Not only were there very solid juridical arguments as to why West Irian should be incorporated into Indonesia in the same way as the Moluccas and various outlying parts, including Indonesian Timor, the former Netherlands Timor, should be incorporated into Indonesia, there was also the fact that within West Irian, insofar as one could determine what indigenous movements took place, the people were in favour of the incorporation of West Irian into Indonesia. When I was in Jakarta in 1960 I met a number of West Irianese who were living as exiles in Jakarta and who supported that incorporation. Certainly the man who was then the information officer at the Indonesian Embassy in Canberra was a West 
Irianese working in the service of the Indonesian Government. 
I appreciate that if this matter were to come up again now, with the benefit of hindsight and with the subsequent developments in Indonesia, I would be prepared to concede that my enthusiasm for the Indonesian claim to West Irian may not be as strong as the enthusiasm which I showed at that time. The suggestion that there is any connection between this and the incorporation of Portuguese Timor into Indonesia has no substance. There is no indigenous movement in Portuguese Timor calling for the incorporation of that country into Indonesia, apart from the very small organisation known as Apodeti which, I think, quite clearly is accepted by everybody as having been sponsored by the Indonesian Government. I concede that the same thing may be said about the indigenous movement in West Irian. What was in Portuguese Timor and not in West Irian was a substantial indigenous movement which was in favour of the independence of Portuguese Timor. Nobody could point to such a movement in West Irian. Clearly one could point to it, and can still point to it in East Timor. 
If  Senator Harradine  's case is to be carried through to its logical conclusion, obviously he should be in the vanguard of this campaign in opposition to what the Indonesians have done. I think he has engaged in an exercise of logic chopping in suggesting that the Indonesians will listen only to people who always oppose them and not to those who sometimes oppose them and sometimes support them, depending on the merits of the case. But so far we have not heard from  Senator Harradine  to any great effect on this question or from very many members of the Liberal Party. What has happened near to the border of Australia, near to the coast of Australia, is the forceable takeover of a small community by a brutal and repressive government. We now see that the actions of this Government are to deprive the indigenous people of East Timor of their only means of communication with the outside world, something which only Australia can provide to them. Whatever anybody else may have done in the past, that is the action of the present Government. That is what the Opposition is protesting about. If it is alleged that the Left is making all the running on this occasion, let me point out that this is part of an old pattern. It was the Left which made all the running in the Spanish civil war, it was the Left which first spoke out about nazism and fascism, and, as a leftist, I am proud to say that it is the Left which has been the first to speak out and the strongest to speak out against Indonesian brutality in East Timor. 
I rise, briefly, for the purpose of asking the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  to clarify why the figures and the date which are set out in the Bill have been selected. I can appreciate that the Government had problems in preparing legislation as a result of the disgraceful events of last November which resulted in the present Government parties taking office in unusual circumstances. I suggest that to accept the amendment moved by the Opposition to provide for retrospectivity to 1 June would more than compensate for any time that was lost because of the upheavals which took place last November. The date 1 June is about 7 months after the present Government took office, and there is certainly nothing unreasonable in asking that payments be made retrospective to that date. Even the date 1 June would mean a delay of some months in the increases which should have been made in payments to injured and disabled persons. I think the same sort of question can be asked regarding the Schedule. The figures which are proposed in the Opposition's amendments are themselves very modest when one considers the rate of inflation in this country. Unless we are to make the assumption that the figures with which the Government has presented us in the legislation were merely grabbed out of the air because the Government felt that something had to be done, I should be obliged if the Minister would explain to the Senate how these figures have been arrived at and, at the same time, why the date of 1 September, some 10 months after this Government took office, was selected as the date to which retrospectivity applies. 
I wish to make a short intervention into the debate because I believe that the manner in which the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Amendment Bill has been introduced into the Senate, although it is not a matter which is likely to arouse great debate in the community at large, gives a very clear indication of this Government's approach to the welfare of the Australian people. The Bill, in its particulars, is unduly and unconscionably delayed and, in the provision it makes for injured employees of the Commonwealth Government, is grossly inadequate. More importantly, the whole approach of the Government to the question of compensation for disabled persons, whether temporarily disabled or permanently disabled, is horribly inadequate and indeed very backward when compared even with countries such as New Zealand. 
I do not wish to say a great deal about the particulars of this Bill. My colleague,  Senator Grimes,  has spoken on them already. Surely it is revealing that a Government which has talked about indexation and the necessity for combating inflation by in some way relating increases in salaries and wages to the consumer price index should apply anything but indexation when it comes to those people who are least able to protect themselves, those who are disabled and the dependants of those who are disabled or have been killed as a result of injuries arising in and out of the course of their employment. There is a delay of a year. Legislation was prepared before the Labor Government went out of office in November last year to bring up to date the provisions of the Acts which are the subject of the Bills which are being debated this afternoon. The provisions of these Bills do not reflect in any way increases in the consumer price index or the rate of inflation, which has been high since the Liberal Government came to office. 
Not only is there this inadequacy, but there is also the much greater defect in the approach of the Government which is dealt with in the amendment which has been moved by the Opposition. When the Australian Labor Party was in Government we appointed a committee of inquiry under the chairmanship of a very distinguished jurist and world respected authority on compensation law,  Sir Owen  Woodhouse, a Justice of the New Zealand Court of Appeals. With him, taking part in the inquiry, was  Mr Justice  Meares, a very distinguished judge from the Supreme Court of New South Wales. They made recommendations which were in some respects revolutionary but not fundamentally different from the principles which were adopted many years ago by a conservative government in New Zealand when  Mr John  Marshall was the Prime Minister there and not greatly dissimilar to legislation which was passed by a conservative government in the Province of Ontario in Canada. That inquiry took evidence from representatives of all those groups that one would expect to be interested in compensation. It presented its report, which was debated very widely throughout Australia. 
A Bill was introduced by me, when I was Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, as part of the policy of the Labor Government and the Australian Labor Party to provide for a comprehensive scheme of national compensation. The Bill subsequently was referred by the Senate to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. A long inquiry took place under that Committee which comprised representatives from both sides of the Senate. Subsequently a report was brought down and legislation again was prepared to take into account objections which had been raised by the members of that Committee and alternative propositions which they had put forward. Quite vehement agitation was organised by various insurance companies against the proposals which we introduced. If I may say so in passing, it is interesting, when one hears remarks about who is running the country and about the shocking malfeasances of trade unions in organising demonstrations against policies of the present Government, to note that there was certainly no objection from members of the present Government when they were in Opposition to the use of policy holders' money by insurance companies and to the time that was taken by employees of insurance companies, which again was a burden on the policy holders of those companies and allegedly mutual life assurance societies, in demonstrations throughout Australia against the Labor Government which was then in office, having been twice democratically elected on a program of introducing legislation similar to that which we introduced. 
Undertakings were given to us by the present Government that it would continue its inquiries into a scheme of national compensation; that it would negotiate with the States so that some sort of national compensation scheme could be introduced. So far absolutely nothing has been done- or, if it has been done, certainly we have not heard anything of it. So we are still in the situation that injured and disabled people in this country are at a severe disadvantage compared with those people who live across the Tasman Sea in New Zealand and who find themselves in similar misfortunes. Not only that, but we find that the whole of compensation insurance throughout Australia is in shreds and tatters and is about to collapse about our ears. When the inquiry under  Mr Justice  Woodhouse was being held one of the most able, intelligent and wellinformed leaders of the insurance industry in Australia,  Mr Pettigrew,  the Managaing Director of Sun Alliance Insurance Ltd, pointed out to the inquiry, as he has pointed out subsequently, that the burdens which were being imposed on insurers for workers compensation insurance and motor vehicle third party insurance were so great that we were entering into the beginnings of a national calamity. I believe that what has happened over the past few days has continued to provide evidence of the foresight of  Mr Pettigrew  's prognostications. 
We saw only last week that in Victoria RACV Insurance Pty Ltd, a subsidiary of the Royal Automobile Club of Victoria- probably one of the oldest companies in the business of providing motor vehicle third party insurance in that State- is withdrawing from the field because it no longer can continue to function, as a result of inflation, the high damages which on many occasions have to be awarded and the crippling premiums which such companies have to charge motorists and which motorists are not able to afford to pay. A few days ago in Western Australia there was an announcement that the premiums for workers compensation insurance were to be increased drastically. The complaints have been coming not from representatives of the trade unions or representatives of the Australia Labor Party but from representatives of the employers in Western Australia, who say that they cannot bear the burden of the workers compensation insurance premiums which they will have to pay in Western Australia. 
These are only instances of what is going on throughout Australia. As I understand it, one of the complaints of the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd in Tasmania in its present difficulties is the burden which has been imposed on it by the imposition of workers compensation insurance premiums. That is one of the reasons why the company has been talking about going out of business, to the great disadvantage of the people who work for it and of all the people of Tasmania and in fact of Australia. I do not have many tears to shed for the employers who have to pay these premiums or for the insurance companies, but I would say this, that I believe they have a legitimate complaint that, because of the irrationality of the existing law and practice relating to compensation for injuries, whether it is in or arising out of the course of their employment or because of some negligent action or tortious action which some other person has committed as a result of which someone has suffered, it is almost impossible to conduct a viable insurance business in those fields. 
Of course, there is one other weakness. It has been compounded by the false economies which this Government so shrewdly thinks it is making but which in fact turn out to be much more expensive than if it had shown some foresight and imagination for what it was doing with regard to the whole field of rehabilitation. It ought to be remembered that the report of  Mr Justice  Woodhouse and  Mr Justice  Meares was not only a report on compensation but it was a report on rehabilitation and compensation. An integral part- the primary part- of the Labor Government's scheme was to see that there was adequate rehabilitation as well as compensation. The two cannot be separated. Our approach was the approach of  Mr Justice  Woodhouse and  Mr Justice  Meares, that there were 3 areas which had to be dealt with in this field. The first was safety. So far as humanly possible we should avoid people being injured or disabled. The second area was rehabilitation. If they were injured or disabled they would be provided with adequate means of getting back into the work force and not being a burden on their fellow Australians. Only if both the safety measures and the rehabilitation measures were to fail would compensation be relied on. 
I would have thought that a government which is keen on saving every cent that it possibly can, a government which believes that parsimony is the highest of all human virtues, when it was approaching this question would have realised that one of the great problems in an industry, particularly in industries which are necessarily hazardous, is the lack of means of adequate rehabilitation for injured and disabled workers. But apparently that was not the case. Apparently in order to establish that it has cut public spending the Government has a blithe disregard for this great problem which has been recognised throughout the world. We have heard nothing from the Government on these matters. Generally one finds that those areas in which there is a high degree of hazard are the manufacturing and mining industries, the basic industries. It is not so much in the service industries, in the catering trade, in clerical work or in the advertising game that one finds a high rate of injuries. The industries in which there is the highest rate of injury are those which are most essential to the economy. 

 -As Senator Mulvihill says, they are short of skilled operatives. That position is only worsened by providing inadequate rehabilitation and compensation for workers in those fields who may be injured. The situation is quite irrational. In one sense I feel great sympathy for employers, such as the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd or people who conduct a factory where there may be some dangers involved, in that they have to pay higher premiums for their insurance. It is absolutely unjust that someone who is carrying out essential work in the construction industry, for example, should be paying higher workers' compensation insurance premiums than somebody who is engaged in a less hazardous trade. But that is the case, and that is not the case because of negligence or because of some fault on the part of employers in those industries; it is because their trades are of necessity more dangerous than other trades. 
The national compensation scheme which the Labor Government proposed would have avoided these difficulties because the revenue which would have been applied to compensation would have come from general revenue for the most part and the disbursements would have been made to people who were disabled for whatever reason. We would have removed the colossal costs involved in litigation, workers compensation or claims for damages arising from the commission of the tort of negligence, which would have saved this country vast sums of money, apart from the great benefit that it would be to the people who were suffering as a result of those injuries. We have heard absolutely nothing from the Government on this question, despite the fact that we still provide inadequate social welfare in this field- it is a field of social welfare- but it has apparently relied on constitutional difficulties which, at least according to some constitutional lawyers, are more imagined than real; on the alleged disagreements with the States; and on what I think to the Government would be most important, the opposition of those insurance companies which believe that at some stage the Government may bail them out and see that they are able to carry on lucrative businesses out of working people's misfortunes. 
For that reason we are moving this amendment today. I would be very obliged if when the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  is replying to the debate she could give us an uptodate deport on the subsequent course of investigations by her Department into the establishment of a national compensation scheme. As I understand it, there is or was a compensation unit within the Department. So far I have not heard anything of its works. If I may say so, when I was the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation one of the things I did was to keep all those Opposition members who were interested in this field up to date on everything that we were doing. I invited their comments and any thoughts they might have on these questions. To the best of my knowledge, this has not been the case since the present Government has been in office. Certainly I have not been invited to offer any views to the present Government on compensation. I see that  Senator Guilfoyle  finds that amusing. When I was the Minister I invited  Mr Chipp  and  Senator Drake-Brockman,  who were the Opposition spokesmen on those questions, to give me their views. A great deal of time was spent by members of the Labor Government discussing these matters with members of the Opposition. I will be very anxious to hear from the Minister what is the current state of the investigations into compensation. But even apart from that, the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Amendment Bill, insofar as it deals with those disabled persons who have been injured in the course of or arising out of their employment with the Commonwealth Government, is highly inadequate and deserves to be condemned by the Senate. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware that on Monday of this week a group of persons purporting to be members of the Ananda Marga organisation forcibly occupied the Chancellery of the Indian High Commission and threatened the High Commissioner and members of the High Commission staff? Apparently they have also been subjecting officers of the High Commission to a campaign of harassment by telephone calls and other such activities. Can the Minister give assurances that the Australian Government will do everything it can to prevent such treatment of a foreign mission in Australia, whatever opinions may be held by Australians of some of the activities of the government of the country which is represented in Canberra? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. In view of the confusion in the minds of honourable  senators  and members of the public resulting from the fact that a little over a week ago the Australian dollar was devalued by 1  7Vi  per cent and has today been revalued by some 2 per cent, and in view of the fact that last week as a result of the devaluation a statement was made by the Treasurer pointing out the necessity, for Australia's economy, for the devaluation, will a similar statement now be made pointing out the necessity for the revaluation and what was wrong with the previous devaluation? Will the Minister also undertake that in the event of subsequent revaluations or devaluations taking place during the next 2 months or so statements will also be issued by the Treasurer and an opportunity be given to members of the Senate to learn the reasons why the most recent revaluation or devaluation was correct and the previous one was incorrect, and give us an opportunity to discuss these matters? 
-Is the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs aware that  Mr Brian  Horgan, who was until yesterday the endorsed candidate of the Liberal Party of Australia for the Legislative Assembly electorate of Balcatta in Western Australia, has announced that he no longer wishes to contest the election on behalf of the Liberal Party for a number of reasons, among them being the fact, according to him, that Liberal Party officials in Western Australia have been describing him as a pommy' and his wife, who is of Greek descent, as a ' wog' and that he has announced that he will now support the Australian Labor Party member for the electorate,  Mr Brian  Burke? Will the Minister investigate the charges which have been made by  Mr Horgan,  which I am sure the Minister will agree, as  Mr Horgan  was an endorsed Liberal Party candidate and must therefore have had the confidence of the Liberal Party, should be taken seriously? In the event of some substance being found in what this former Liberal Party candidate has been saying, will an apology be issued on behalf of the Liberal Party to those many British and Greek immigrants in Western Australia who no doubt will have been very distressed by  Mr Horgan  's revelations? 
-My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs relates to the same matters as those which were raised earlier by  Senator Brown.  In view of the seriousness of the reports which have been received since the last sessional period of this Parliament relating to allegations of the commission of serious atrocities by the Indonesian forces in East Timor, will the Government inform the Parliament, either by way of a statement or in answer to this question, what information it has at present, particularly relating to the allegations which were made by  Mr Dunn,  the former Australian consul in the former territory of Portuguese Timor, and what actions, if any, the Government is taking to keep these events, which are so close to our own borders, under observation as well as what representations, if any, it has made to the Government of Indonesia on these matters, if it is in fact satisfied that there is some substance in the allegations that have been made? 

 -Mr President, I am sure that we are all distressed to learn that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack finds the White Paper which his Government has produced on defence to be unsatisfactory. I am afraid that I would not be able to compete with him in knowledge of military matters and discuss some of these technical subjects that he has raised. My military experience was limited to 3 years as a private in the Perth Modern School senior cadet detachment, at the end of which the best that could be said was that I had not been demoted. In the last year of that training, I belonged to a squad which was known as the Vickers squad. We learnt how to operate a Vickers gun. Immediately after the completion of the course it was announced that the Vickers gun had been made obsolete and would no longer be used by the Australian Army. This tended to give me, at a rather early age, a certain lack of faith in the military mind. 
As  Senator Wriedt  has said, when we are debating defence, there are 2 matters which must be considered. One is the technical aspects of defence itself. The other concerns the foreign policy ramifications of defence. For the reasons that I have already stated and because  Senator Wriedt  has already dealt with them- no doubt some other  speaker  will deal with those matters also- I propose to confine myself to the foreign policy implications of this White Paper. I must say from the very beginning how encouraging it is, on the one hand, to see produced this document which completely repudiates 25 years of Liberal Party policy. But, on the other hand, I must say how disconcerting it is to find really no explanation why there has been this dramatic change. 
I live in the electorate of Curtin in Western Australia. Two of the members who have represented that electorate were at various times members of the ministry of this country. One of them became a Governor-General of this country. I well remember that when that member who became Governor-General held the seat of Curtin the 1950s and 1960s every week just before any Federal polling day I used to find a pamphlet in my letter box. The pamphlet had a map on it. It was always the same map. It always showed red arrows coming down from China directed at the Nedlands golf club. The message which was conveyed by the pamphlet was that there was a world-wide Communist conspiracy centred either in Peking or Moscow- it was not quite clear where it was centred, but from the map it seemed to be centred in Peking- and that the communists were coming down and had one goal in mind, which was to take away all those valued possessions which we were enjoying. They were coming down through Indonesia, the 
Philippines and Indo-China and were trying to get down into Penh. It is interesting when one reads the White Paper which we now have before us to find that this idea apparently has been quite blithely abandoned- one might even say abandoned in a cavalier fashion if it were not for the fact that the Minister for Defence has such a round head. 
What does this document say about international communism? In paragraph 2 of chapter 1 it refers to the fact that Britain is no longer able to defend us- something of which I think all of us have been aware since the Second World Warand it goes on to say in paragraph 5 that changes have occurred in the communist world. It reads: 
While possessing massive military power, the U.S.S.R. has long ceased to command the undisputed political preeminence and leadership it enjoyed in earlier years. The communist movement is still a potent international force; but it is not the monolith that so concerned Western leaders in the earlier post- War era. 
It is interesting to note that the Government now talks about 'the earlier post- War era' because during the enure period of the Vietnam war we were told that there was a monolithic communist movement and that the reason we had to send troops to Vietnam was because of the monolithic communist movement. In fact,  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack told us tonight that the U.S.S.R. follows the doctrines of Clausewitz that war is diplomacy carried on by other methods. I should have thought that there would have been some other countries which subscribed to that doctrine, not just the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. It seemed to be a little unfair to pick it out from all the other countries which have engaged in war from time to time. He told us that the U.S.S.R. was the country which organised the war in Vietnam and which benefited from the subsequent victory of the national liberation movement in Vietnam, which was in fact composed of the overwhelming majority of the people of Vietnam. It is rather strange that he has not said that China was responsible for what happened in Vietnam because, as I understood the map that  Sir Paul  Hasluck used to send to me and what we were told in the Parliament, the Chinese were coming- not the Russians. I know that the Russians were coming, but they were not coming quite as fast or quite as hard as the Chinese. But apparently now the Chinese really had very little to do with the matter. In fact, the reference which is made to this matter in paragraph 6 of chapter 1 of this rather extraordinary White Paper reads: 
In particular there has been a major re-assessment of China. 
The document does not say by whom this major re-assessment has been made. Members of the Australian Labor Party have always said that we ought to have diplomatic relations with China, that it ought to be admitted to the United Nations, that we ought to seek peace with China and that we ought to seek trade with China. I can well remember that for many years members of the Australian Labor Party were accused of being unpatriotic, subversive and traitors to this country because we advocated the policies towards China which have now been accepted by this Government without one word of explanation- just a limp little sentence which reads: 
In particular there has been a major re-assessment of China. 
After all that brouhaha and after sending 400 young Australians to be killed, all the Government can tell us is that someone- unspecifiedhas made a major re-assessment of China. The White Paper continues: 
China's earlier isolation has been modified . . . 
By whom was it modified? China's earlier isolation was modified by the Australian Labor Government when we entered into diplomatic relations with China and when, although we were not members at that stage, we supported the admission of China to the United Nations. We were the people who modified China's earlier isolation. Had it been left to honourable senators opposite and had there been people in the United States of America, Great Britain and France who were as silly as they are, China would still be isolated. God knows where we would be today if China was still as isolated as honourable senators opposite tonight would have liked to have kept ner. The White Paper states: 
China's earlier isolation has been modified and it has entered into widespread relations with other governments. It plays an important role in world affairs. We welcome the opportunity to develop our relations with China; but we recognise the important differences in our political attitude. 
That is at least something. Something is left of those grand old days when we all had to put our rifles to our shoulders and go off and fight. We have some political differences. They are just the same sort of political differences as the Liberal Party has with the Country Party, but they are nothing in relation to which anything more serious should be done than to deny each other one's preferences in an election in Western Australia. 
What else does this White Paper say? Let us deal with the situation in Vietnam. One should have thought, after all those years of slander directed against the Australian Labor Party because of its policies on Vietnam, that for the first time from this Government, back in office after the debacle in Vietnam, there would have been some explanation of what had happened in Vietnam; what was the change; what had occurred; what was the explanation for sending troops there then and pulling them out only to see the whole thing go down the drain and the people of Vietnam take over their own country, as they should have done 30 years previously? But what has the Government said? The White Paper states: 
Vietnam has been unified under the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. Communist governments have likewise been established in Laos and Kampuchea. 
The Government has even gone so far as to no longer call it Cambodia; it is now Kampuchea, the Government now having linked so far with the Third World. The White Paper continues: 
Tentative steps have been taken towards the establishment of relationships with the ASEAN governments, but, given the basic political differences, many uncertainties persist about future development. 
They are now only 'uncertainties'. A few years ago they were as clear as the Ten Commandments. One had to go up there and kill. But no explanation has been offered. No. It happened; it is over. The Government is virtually saying: 'We have included a little paragraph here. We have thought about it. It has all changed '. 
One comes then to the situation in the U.S.S.R. One of the features of conservatism in Australia is that one always has to find some enemy who is coming down to threaten Australia. It is a rather more bloodthirsty version of the old Roman doctrine of bread and circuses, although there is not too much bread but there might be a few circuses.. One always has an enemy. The Boxer rebels were going to get us in the 1890s, so Australian troops had to be sent off to China. The Boers were causing terrible trouble in the Transvaal and the Orange Free State so Australians went there. We were in the First World War. We would have gone to Suez if the war had lasted long enough. We were involved in other wars in which we should have been involved because we were under threat. Then we were involved in Vietnam. But there is still an enemy lurking. There has to be an enemy lurking. We find that enemy in paragraphs 1 1 and 12. Paragraph 1 1 reads: 
A most significant event has been the massive build-up undertaken by the U.S.S.R. in both its nuclear and conventional armaments. The U.S.S.R. has achieved essential nuclear strategic equivalents with the U.S. and competes with the U.S. as a global power. 
Why says so? I would recommend to supporters of the Government that they peruse some of the recent very well informed statements of one of the Democratic members- probably the best informed Democratic member- of the United States House of Representatives Committee on the Armed Services. I refer to Representative Aspin from Wisconsin. There they will see a very detailed analysis based on proper intelligence, not just a bit of off-the-cuff stuff like we have in this White Paper, about the relative strength of the U.S.S.R. and the U.S.A. I think that honourable senators will find that what Representative Aspin puts forward- he has not been contradicted- shows quite the contrary, that is, that the U.S.A. still has overwhelming preponderance over the Soviet Union in both nuclear and conventional weapons. In saying this I am not here as any sort of apologist for the Soviet Union. The Soviet Union has itself to blame for its actions in Czechoslovakia and Hungary, and its lunatic meddling in the Middle East where not only has it been immoral but also incompetent and has finished up without a single friend anywhere in the Middle East after having antagonised everybody and having been the original country to move the resolution in the United Nations, it having been moved by  Mr Gromyko,  that Israel ought to be established. But the U.S.S.R. has blown the whole thing, not because it has any great humanity but because it is rather silly itself. 
Great power has never improved anybody and I think the present people who occupy high positions in the Soviet Union are living embodiments of that adage. I am not here to say that they are admirable people or that they would not try to clobber someone if they thought they could get away with it. What I am saying is that if we make a systematic analysis of the relative strengths of the U.S.S.R. and the U.S.A. we find that the U.S.A. is overwhelmingly more powerful than the U.S.S.R. 
The authors of the White Paper on defence go on and turn to the Indian Ocean. They come back to this new threat which is the threat of the Soviet Union. They say in paragraphs 15 and 16 of chapter 2 of the White Paper: 
Littoral states on the Indian Ocean have varying relationships with the Super Powers. 
They have even adopted Maoist terminology. They are now talking about the 'Super Powers'. It is remarkable. Once you only used to be able to read this language in Vanguard. Now you read it in a White Paper from the Minister for Defence. The White Paper continues: 
These are a function of national strategic situations and are a matter for national discretion. Significant extension of Super Power Activity, 
Capital letters are used for the words 'Super Power'- however, can exercise a powerful influence on the strategic circumstances of nations in a region. 
That is perfectly true. No one could dispute that statement. The Paper continues: 
Arms supply and other support can heighten regional confrontation and destabilise the military balance; 
What the authors are saying, if I can understand what is being said, is that arms should be kept out of the area because the more arms that go into the area the more unstable the area becomes and the greater the chance of there being some sort of conflagration. I think that is what they are saying. If they are not saying that, I do not know what they are saying and perhaps somebody else will explain it to me. They continue: it can attract competition and confrontation from the other Super Power; regional states can be drawn into these rivalries. Short of such major developments, the U.S.S.R. could seek and gain local access for its military deployments, enabling it to exert direct pressure on local political developments. 
I do not have the slightest doubt that the U.S.S.R. would like to do precisely that. Of course it would like to influence developments in those areas. Of course it would like to build up its military strength in the Indian Ocean. The leaders of the U.S.S.R. are not angels; they would love to do it. If they could do a Czechoslovakia on Somalia they would do it without batting an eyelid. But they cannot do it and so they do not do it. But they would love to do that and we are aware of it. What are the facts? Are they doing it? 
The Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence brought down a report on this matter. What was the decision that it came to? It came to the decision that there was no threat to Australia from a Soviet presence in the Indian Ocean. There is a Soviet presence in the Indian Ocean; there is no doubt about that. The Soviets are in Berbera. But what that bipartisan or tripartisan committee with a majority of Government members on it recommendedSenator Sim is its  chairman  and I think he will be speaking later- was that there was no substantial Soviet threat to Australia which would necessitate any cause for alarm in this country. Paragraph 1 6 of chapter 2 of the White Paper states: 
The Australian interest is that these developments be avoided in the Indian Ocean littoral. The ability of the U.S. to match the U.S.S.R. and establish a restraining influence is important. For this reason, we support the present U.S. program for modest development of the facilities at Diego Garcia - 
I emphasise the words 'modest development' - which will enhance the operational capability of the U.S. Navy. But we would wish to see the Super Powers exercise restraint in their activities so that their deployments may be maintained at the lowest practicable level. 
What humbug that is,  Mr President.  Once you have the U.S., in opposition to the democratic majority in the U.S. Senate, if it were to take the advice of this Government, establish what are euphemistically described here as some modest installations in Diego Garcia, that would be the surest way of ensuring that the Soviet Union would be in the Indian Ocean as well. After all this discussion about the super powers that we have in this document, does anybody seriously believe that one super power can go into the Indian Ocean in the way in which the U.S. has already gone-through its installations at North West Cape for example, which this Government wants it to add to by establishing a base in Diego Garcia- without inviting the Soviet Union to come into the Indian Ocean? The Indian Ocean is no more the property of the U.S. than it is of the Soviet Union. It is closer to the Soviet Union than it is to the U.S. If the U.S. is to be brought into the Indian Ocean then, as night follows day, the Soviet Union is going to build up its resources and seek to do those things which are deplored here- influence governments along the littoral of the Indian Ocean. It will do so because the U.S. will be there. It will be completely entitled to do it because it would be in self defence that they would be doing it. 
What do we say about this? We say we ought to follow the sort of policies put forward by the Indian Government which have been supported by the Government of Sri Lanka; that is, that all the super powers should get out of the Indian Ocean. Neither the Soviet Union, the U.S. nor anybody else should be allowed in there. Of course, if we were to give our support to countries such as India and Tanzania that is an end which it would be possible for us to achieve. This could be the beginning of a worldwide agreement on the elimination of armed forces. 
The Indian Ocean is not within the immediate range of interest of either the U.S. or the Soviet Union. It would be very difficult to talk about getting the super powers out of the Atlantic or the Mediterranean or the north Pacific, but it is completely feasible to talk about getting the super powers out of the Indian Ocean. Proposals have been made by neighbouring governments that we should do this and the Australian Government has rejected them. It says there is no longer any world communist threat. It has some minor political differences with the Chinese and the Russians are not as good as they might be, but despite having said all this the Government still carries on with the same old slogans, the same old ideology that caused us so much heartbreak through the 1950s and the 1960s. It is still inviting the Americans to come in. It is still inviting the two super powers to build up a conflagration of some sort around the shores of the Indian Ocean. 
I would like to refer to one other rather odd thing. Having made these various suggestions as to what might happen and what could happen, having referred to what Clausewitz said or what Kruschev said- as  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack has been reminding us- and having stated what might be the ideology of the Soviet Communist Party or the Chinese or somebody else, we then find reference to Indonesia in paragraphs 37 to 40 of chapter 2 of the White Paper. I do not want to read all this but it starts off on this happy note: 
Friendly relations between Australia and its major neighbour Indonesia have prevailed for 30 years . . . 
Apparently the Government has forgotten all about confrontation when, under a previous Liberal-Country Party Government, we were sending troops to Malaya because of the confrontation. That has all vanished. The more one watches politicians of a number of different persuasions the more one sees the force of those prophecies made by George Orwell concerning newspeak' and the re-writing of history. We are told that friendly relations have prevailed for 30 years and that we have 'successfully weathered' occasional sharp differences. If they were sharp differences I would hate to see a war. The White Paper continues: 
The substantial considerations sustaining basic accord between the two countries have long been understood and acknowledged in Australian policy. 
The White Paper goes on about the Indonesian archipelago and Papua New Guinea. There are 4 paragraphs on this area. There is not one mention of what has just happened in East Timor. In East Timor there has not been aggression in the mind of someone, or the thought that aggression might take place because Karl Marx said so or Clausewitz said so. Aggression has taken place there under our very noses. The Indonesian Government ruthlessly, cynically and brutally invaded a neighbouring country and at the very least killed tens of thousands of its inhabitants. If this White Paper were meant to be some sort of examination in depth of the defence problems which face this country at present I would have hoped that there might have been some consideration given to the dramatic change which has taken place in Indonesian foreign policy. For years, including all the time under the much maligned Sukarno, Indonesian policy with regard to what it claimed constituted Indonesian territory was that the territory of the Republic of Indonesia was co-extensive with the former territory of the Netherlands East Indies- no more and no less. The Indonesians made their claim to West Irian, formerly Netherlands New Guinea, which the Dutch did not transfer to them as they agreed to do at the time of the treaties in the late 1940s. The Indonesian claim was based solely on the juridical proposition that the former Netherlands East Indies constituted the Republic of Indonesia. The Indonesian Government with which we have these friendly relations, despite occasional sharp differences which are not specified, has forcibly incorporated East Timor, and by all accounts it was against the will of its people. I was in the country a few years before the Indonesians invaded the place and I detected no desire on the part of anybody there to become part of Indonesia. The Indonesians invaded Timor and forcibly incorporated it. This showed a completely new attitude by the Indonesians as to what ought to constitute Indonesian territory. Indonesia has incorporated the other part of an island which it shared with the Portuguese until a couple of years ago. It had never claimed that part of the island. Seeing that we have been talking about Clausewitz and the world communist conspiracy I shall raise a matter. I hope it will not be on too gloomy a note. If the present Indonesian Government feels that it can claim half of one island because that island is shared with the Indonesians through their occupation of another half of that island, what would be inconsistent about their making precisely the same claim to another island? 
-Precisely; I mean the island of Papua New Guinea. If they can claim that former Portuguese East Timor ought to be incorporated into the Republic of Indonesia, why cannot the Indonesians also claim that Papua New Guinea should be incorporated into Indonesia? They have never made that claim but they never made the claim about East Timor until the very day they invaded it. That is the first time that we knew Indonesia had a claim. I do not believe that we ought to be sabre-rattling against Indonesia. But when we are looking at the issues which confront Australian defence, instead of talking about what might have happened in Peking we ought to be looking at what actually has happened. We have seen what has happened right next to us, namely, the forcible occupation of a neighbouring territory h is only a few hundred miles from the coast of Australia. That territory is not even mentioned in this defence White Paper. 
Australia occupies a huge area and has a small population. I was reminded just recently that the population of this country is really quite microscopic. An area from Chicago, up to Milwaukee and to the north of Wisconsin where I happened to be travelling only a few weeks ago- a few hundred miles- has a greater population than the whole of Australia. We are spread across an area as great as that of the continental United States, exclusive of Alaska. We have great areas across to the north of our .country which are almost indefensible. The best means Australia has of defence is not by buying arms, not by buying cruisers, not by talking about having atomic bombs, but by its foreign policy. That is our best means of defence. I do not say that as a pacifist. I do not say that as somebody who believes that we should not have armaments at all. I believe we should have a sufficiently large strike force to be able to come to the assistance of the inhabitants of Papua New Guinea, for example, were they to be attacked. But to talk in these terms about Australia as if it were a super power or as if we ought to be part of some arrangements with super powers which would bring them into the part of the world in which we live, could be disastrous for this country. The only way in which we can secure our defence is by our foreign policy, by taking steps to see that the super powers are not in the Indian Ocean, whatever may happen with Indonesia. 
The greatest chances of conflagration of a major nature will come because of disputes between super powers. We ought to be working for regional arrangements whereby the people in our part of the world- that is South East Asia and the Indian Ocean- are able to determine their own affairs without military interference from any other country, whatever it is. That is the surest path to peace and the defence of Australia. And that is the policy for which the Australian Labor Party stands. 
It was quite like old times to hear  Senator Webster  speak again in such a vein. It reminded me of what happened when he was in Opposition and used to accuse the Labor Government of being a communist government. I must confess that I was a little startled, after the most amicable debate that took place last night on foreign policy when nobody accused anybody in the Australian Labor Party of being a communist, that today  Senator Webster  should revive that old epithet that used to be bandied around the Parliament. 
-Senator Webster may hold them strongly, but he does not hold them very clearly. I should have thought that  Senator Webster,  on his elevation to the Ministry as a sort of latter-day Faraday or Edison as Minister for Science, would have been able to adopt a more scientific approach to the problems of the economy which now beset us; but it appears that he has been so bemused by the difficulties facing us through the depredations of the water hyacinth that he has been unable to apply his mind to these topics and has had to give the same old speech as he used to give in Opposition. I do not want to dwell too much on what  Senator Webster  said. I commend anyone who is interested in the current philosophy of the National Country Party of Australia to read  Senator Webster's  remarks and learn that he is in favour of high tariffs for manufactured goods so that the farmers will be able to pay the maximum possible price to local manufacturers. It is a new development and it is an interesting contribution. It is not one that I understand  Senator Webster  previously stood for. But I daresay that there are those in the Chamber of Manufactures who will welcome his conversion, although I can well imagine that there would be many in the various farmer organisations who might, if they were aware of it, be somewhat displeased. 
I would like to say something about the change that has taken place in the Australian economy over the past few years. The Labor Party was elected to office, but not really to government owing to the fact that it was never able to control the Senate and was constantly under threat- threats that materialised on 2 occasions during the course of the Labor Party's 3 years in office. We were elected in 1972. When we were elected we discovered that the social welfare system of this country, which once had been the envy of the whole Western word, had degenerated to such an extent that it was well behind the social welfare systems of all of northern and western Europe and that the areas from which previously large numbers of immigrants had come to this country had dried up because working people were not prepared to leave the Netherlands, West Germany, France, Austria, Norway or Sweden to come to this country. The reason was that, despite the fact that they lived in countries where in proportion to the population there was much less wealth than there is in Australia, they were still much better off than they would have been if they had come here, because of the total breakdown of the social welfare system that had occurred in this country during 23 years of Liberal-Country Party government. 
During the period for which we were in office we did something to correct the position. We introduced the Medibank scheme, which the present Government, when it was contesting the last election, pledged itself to support but which, as is so often the case with its promises, it promptly forgot once it was elected to office. During the period for which we were in office we raised the standard social security pension by 94 per cent, we raised the war and defence widows pensions by 94 per cent and we increased- just to mention one field with which I happened to be personally connected- the pensions for totally and permanently incapacitated veterans of the armed forces by 54 per cent. That took place at a time when the consumer price index increased by 44.7 per cent- in the period from June 1972 to June 1975. We gave substantial benefits to the people in this country who were most in need of those benefits. In fact, the proportion of the Budget that was spent on social welfare increased from 22.5 per cent in the last full financial year of Liberal-Country Party government to a proposed 34.5 per cent in 1976-77. 
That brought with it difficulties, and we acknowledged those difficulties. We were elected on an expectation, which was shared by not only members of the Australian Labor Government but also people throughout the world, that the current prosperity of the Western capitalist world was going to continue. For a variety of reasons, which I do not propose to go into at the present moment, but among them were the problems that occurred with energy supplies, there was a general slowing down throughout the Western capitalist world. Unemployment and inflation increased in every one of those countries, whether it be Australia, the United States of America, Japan or West Germany- the land of the post-war economic miracle, the so-called wirtschaftswunder. All of us suffered the same problems. 
We were conscious of the fact that, as a result of this slowing down in business activity and as a result of the increased expenditure that we had found necessary for social welfare, education and other long overdue necessities for the Australian people, we were faced with a very considerable problem. In fact, we as a government acknowledged that. Shortly before we were dismissed from office by the Governor-General, as Minister for Social Security and Minister for Repatriation and Compensation I spoke at a meeting of the Australian Council of Social Service which was held in Canberra on 22 August 1 975. 1 spoke to a group of people who were very critical of the steps that we had proposed in the Budget we had introduced to reduce the rate of public expenditure. I said at that time: 
As the Prime Minister recently said, some of our expectations in 1972 were based on the assumption that the prosperity which existed then in most Western countries would continue. This has not been the case. All Western industrial countries are suffering, to a greater or lesser degree, an economic crisis which has resulted in a combination of inflation and high unemployment. The position in Australia at the moment is that unemployment and inflation are running at 4.8 per cent and 1 7 per cent respectively. 
That was not a conservative estimate. I was being quite liberal in the estimate that I gave at that time. I went on to say: 
It is the view of the Government that the most important and short term evil is inflation. 
We can no longer support deficit spending in which 24.6 per cent of the gross domestic product has been spent on the public sector. While the non-productive, non-profitable parts of the public sector are consuming these resources, the private sector employs three-quarters of the work force and we must relieve the pressure on it. The only way to do this is to reduce spending on the public sector. 
I went on to say: 
The alternative of allowing inflation to develop, giving rise to massive unemployment, would result in the collapse of our monetary system. Our intentions are that the present growth restriction will be only for a short period and once the economic situation has stabilised, we should then be in a strong position to press ahead with new programs. 
That is what we proposed. We acknowledged all these difficulties and were preparing to deal with them when we were dismissed. But what happened then? The Government which replaced us is not committed to ideas of social welfare. It is a government which subscribes to the doctrines of Milton Friedman and Ayn Rand- that the only things which ought to function are those which are paid for by somebody out of his own pocket; that you do not even have public education. If you carry these Friedmanesque ideas through to their logical or illogical conclusion, or the ideas of Ayn Rand, you do not have railways, you do not have universities provided by the State; everything is done by private enterprise. These are the notions to which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  subscribes. 
The Government and its supporters accuse us of being idealogues, of being dogmatists, yet nobody could be so ensnared in their own dogma as the people making the economic policies of this present government. Their dogma is a return to the sort of government and the sort of economic order which existed in Britain before the end of the eighteenth century. They seem to have accepted the strange, repudiated doctrines of Milton Friedman and Ayn Rand; they have the idea that somehow or other, to paraphrase the words of Calvin Coolidge who said that America's business is business, if you leave everything to business everything will turn out all right. We saw what happened to Calvin Coolidge 's doctrines and those of Herbert Hoover in 1929. As a result of following those doctrines the capitalist world was faced with one of the greatest depressions in history, an event which threw up nazism and fascism and hastened the spread of communism. They almost caused the total destruction of the system which they said they were supporting. 
Those are the doctrines to which this Government subscribes and that is the course on which it is set. But at least it seemed that one could understand what the Government was saying when it was elected. One may have disagreed with it but it appeared that the Government was saying that there was one evil and that one evil stood out above all others and had to be removed; that was the evil of inflation. 
I have spoken to many business people. They used to speak to us when we were in government. They did not talk to us for a few months after we were out of government but it is remarkable now how they are coming back to talk to us again. Some of them are people who had not spoken to me for ages. They are being most cordial, most friendly, when they see me of late- not because they believe my manners have improved or that I have grown any younger looking, or more handsome or more charming, but because they know that the government they have been dealing with and which they helped to put in is on the way down the drain, and deservedly so. Perhaps they would like to hedge their bets with the Opposition which they see coming up. 
What do these businessmen say? They say what I am saying now- that at least they could understand what the Government said it was doing or trying to do when it said that the main drive of its policy was to get rid of inflation. But once devaluation of the Australian dollar occurred how on earth could the Government ever say that its primary goal was to get rid of inflation? Whatever may be the merits of the devaluation of the Australian dollar, and its subsequent strange revaluations, like a sort of daily double, nobody could argue that devaluation is anything other than inflationary. How can a government say that the most important thing is to fight inflation while at the same time it says that what has to be done is devalue the Australian dollar? That is the single most inflationary step which any government has ever taken. This bewilderment which is consuming the minds of the more intelligent business leaders in Australia is something which we thought may have been cleared up in this debate today but so far we have had no hints whatever from Government spokesmen, either here or in another place, of what the Government proposed to do about it. 
I want to turn now to Western Australia. A lot of people seem to be thinking of Western Australia lately. There we see an example of the sort of thing which the Liberal Government's strange economic policies have done. This present Government is committed in opposition to public spending. This is despite the fact that western economies such as France, with a conservative government, West Germany and Austria with social democratic governments, and Scandinavia, the Netherlands and Belgium with a variety of governments, have understood that one way of curing economic ills and unemployment is by engaging in appropriate public sector activity. But the people comprising the Australian Government are so dogmatic and so doctrinaire that they believe in no public sector activity at all. They have starved various States of funds, particularly Western Australia. The Western Australian Government, led by the unfortunate  Sir Charles  Court, that hapless, latter-day poor man's Adam Smith- he would be a poor man's Adam Smith if he happened to be familiar with his doctrines and had not read the version of them which appears in the  Daily News-  has been so starved of funds that it has found it necessary not to continue with the public enterprise State electricity operations to provide electrical power to the people of Western Australia. Instead it has had to bring a business partner into the Muja power plant project. The Western Australian Government has been so starved of federal funds that it has had to bring foreign funds into Western Australia. That is much more inflationary than would have been the case if there had been a transfer of funds within Australia. To bring in foreign funds in order to do this is again inflationary. It is inflationary just as the Australian Government's policy of devaluing the Australian dollar is inflationary. What has  Sir Charles  Court said? He was reported to have said this: 
The Muja plan will mean an increase in electricity charges after 1980, but  Sir Charles  said that the rise would be marginal. 
He has a different view of 'marginal' from that which some of us may have. He was reported also to have said: 
At most, charges under the new scheme would be 4 per cent to S per cent higher than they would be if the Muja extensions were financed from government loan funds. 
There is to be a 4 per cent to 5 per cent increase in electricity charges in Western Australia because of the Federal Government's policy. This is the policy of the Government which says that it is opposed to inflation, that it is here to fight inflation. 
We of the Opposition are waiting for the answers. The people of Australia are waiting for the answers. So are the leaders of the business community. I do not have any great sympathy for the leaders of the business community. I must say that I think that to a very large extent they deserve what they get. Their stupid opposition to modest proposals of ours, such as the establishment of an Australian Government insurance corporation, and their pumping of money into the hands of the incompetents who sit opposite on the Government side, were largely responsible for the mess that they are in now. The fact of the matter is that as long as we have a business community and an economy which is largely a capitalist economy, any sensible government nas to retain the confidence of those people. This Government has completely lost their confidence in the same way that it has lost the confidence of the trade unionists and all the other people of Australia. What we want to know is: What is the Government trying to do? We know that it is not succeeding, whatever it is, but would it at least please tell us what it is trying to do? At the moment we do not know. Nobody else knows. I believe there are very strong grounds for believing that the Government does not know either. 
I present the following petition from 23 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, although we accept the verdict of the Australian people in the 1975 election, we do not accept the right of a Governor-General to dismiss a Prime Minister who maintains the confidence of the House of Representatives. 
We believe that the continued presence of  Sir John  Kerr as Governor-General is a cause of division among the Australian people. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the honourable  President  and Members of the Senate will call on  Sir John  Kerr to resign as Australian Governor-General. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 93 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That those who have retired and those who are about to retire, are being severely and adversely affected by inflation and Australian economic circumstances. 
The continuance of the Mean's Test on pensions causes undue hardship to them. 
We call on the Government to immediately abolish the Mean 's Test on all Aged Pensions. 
To ensure a pension for all on retirement, and a guarantee that all Australian citizens will retire with dignity. 
Acknowledge that a pension is a right and not a charity. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
As the longest serving Labor senator from Western Australia, I speak on behalf of the members of the Australian Labor Party in support of the motion which has been moved by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  and wish to be associated with the very generous remarks of  Senator Withers  concerning our late colleague, former  Senator Harry  Cant. Former  Senator Cant  was one of the old school of working class trade union Labor activists. He was a hard, tough, vigorous fighter who grew up in the ranks of the Australian Workers Union. He came from Geraldton in the northwest of Western Australia, worked in very tough conditions throughout Western Australia and suffered many vicissitudes during the Depression. He became an organiser for the Australian Workers Union and, before coming into the Senate, was the industrial advocate- and a very effective industrial advocate- on behalf of the AWU in Western Australia. At the same time, he was a person whose views one always respected because one knew that he held them with very great sincerity. Unfortunately, his career in this Parliament was somewhat prematurely cut short owing to the double dissolution of 1974. Despite the fact that he did not secure re-endorsement for the election of 1974 in circumstances which, I think it might be fair to say, a lesser person could have well taken amiss, he remained a loyal and dedicated supporter of the Australian Labor Party until his death shortly after the death of his wife to whom he was very close. In the passing of Harry Cant I think that the Australian Labor movement has lost one of its traditional members, one of the people who represented a very important strand in Australian society, a man who made a very great contribution to his Party, to the Australian working class and to the Australian Senate. On behalf of the Opposition, I would like to associate the ALP with the remarks of  Senator Withers  and express our sorrow and great sympathy to the members of Harry Cant's family. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable senators standing in their places. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Is he aware that  Mr Camille  Chamoun, the former  President  of the Republic of Lebanon and leader of the National Liberal Party in that country, has postponed a visit to Australia which he intended to make in the near future? Is it a fact that  Mr Chamoun  has postponed his visit as a result of a request to the Government of Lebanon by representatives of the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs? If that is the case, what was the reason for the request regarding  Mr Chamoun  's proposed visit? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Administrative Services. I refer to a newspaper report which appeared in the  West Australian  of 10 March written by  Ms Jill  Crommelin, concerning the arrival of the pop group ABBA at Perth airport. In that article she wrote: 
A small, fierce man approached the Press and said: 'If anyone asks ABBA a single question the Commonwealth police will see that he leaves this area '. 
Does the Minister know whether the statement attributed to the small fierce man is correct? Were Commonwealth police proposing to remove people who asked questions? What are the duties of the Commonwealth police on occasions such as this? Do their duties go beyond the preservation of order or, in fact, are the Commonwealth police behaving as employees of the commercial entrepreneurs who bring such strolling players to this country? 
I also wish to raise a matter which is related to East Timor and the actions of the Indonesian Government. I can assure the Senate that this is not part of any concerted antiIndonesian campaign but results from information that was provided to me by 2 constituents of mine- a  Mr and Mrs Quin  of Stirling Highway, Nedlands, Western Australia.  Mr and Mrs Quin,  who are both schoolteachers and are employed by the Western Australia Department of Education, had proposed to visit Singapore and Bali as part of one of the package tours which were arranged by Qantas Airways Ltd in January during the last summer holidays. As an Indonesian visa was needed for them to visit Bali they made an application on 6 January to the Indonesian consular office in Perth for Indonesian visas. The clerk at the Indonesian consular office in Perth stamped Indonesian visas inside their passports more or less automatically when they presented them, but asked to retain the passports so that confirmation could be obtained from the Embassy that visas would be issued. 
On 10 January they returned to the consular office in Perth to pick up their passports but were told they were not ready. On 12 January they again visited the Indonesian consular office where the visa clerk in their presence telephoned  Mr Achmed  in the Indonesian Embassy in Canberra.  Mr Achmed  said that approval had been sought from Jakarta. It had not been obtained. The clerk then returned the passports to  Mr and Mrs Quin  with large cancelled stamps placed on the visas which had been entered in their passports. 
On 1 3 January the Qantas office in Perth made inquiries by telephone of the Indonesian Embassy in Canberra as to whether the visas were ready. Qantas was informed that no further information was available. On 14 January  Mr and Mrs Quin  left on their trip without visas to enter Indonesia. They arrived in Singapore. On 17 January they applied at the Indonesian Embassy in Singapore, as when they were in Perth, they had been told would be wise for them to do for their visas so that they could visit Bali. On 1 8 January they attended at the Indonesian Embassy and were told that the visas had been refused. Qantas made representations on their behalf as also did the Australian High Commission which they visited. However, no satisfaction was received from the Indonesian Embassy in Singapore.  Mr and Mrs Quin  said- and knowing these 2 people I do not think they would be exaggerating-that the Indonesian official with whom they were dealing at the Indonesian Embassy in Singapore adopted a very rude and offensive manner towards them in refusing to grant them the visas. 
They returned home ultimately without having been able to visit Bali which was of some inconvenience as it was one of the main reasons for their having set off on this trip. On 10 February  Mr Beecham,  who is the Honorary Consul for Indonesia in Perth, visited  Mr and Mrs Quin  and told them that the reason that Indonesian visas had been refused to them was that the Indonesian Government understood that they were associated with the Friends of East Timor. They in fact denied having had any association with the Friends of East Timor or any connection of any kind with anybody connected with East Timor. However, they did volunteer information seeing the subject had been raised that they did not approve of what the Indonesian Government had done in East Timor and it was very likely they would, if someone had asked them, support the general objectives as they understood them of the Friends of East Timor. But in fact they had not had anything to do with that organisation. They had made no statements on the matter, they had taken part in no demonstrations, they had written no letters, said anything or done anything at all apart from having read the papers and drawing their own conclusions from what they had read. 
I have raised this matter because I think it does reflect something that should be drawn to the attention of the Senate. I think that it might also be worth while for the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  to consider making some representations to the Indonesian Embassy because a number of things seem to emerge. One of them, apparently, is that the Indonesian Embassy is engaging in some sort of surveillance of the political activities of Australians within their own country. These are completely legitimate political activities. There is nothing illegal in this country about the Friends of East Timor. Members of all political parties represented in this Parliament have expressed views similar to the views which I understand the Friends of East Timor express although, as it happens in this case, the surveillance was incompetent as we unfortunately frequently find with the activities of the Indonesian Government. Apparently they got the wrong people. They mistook them for somebody else. 
As a result of the actions of the Indonesian Government these people now have passports with a large letter R on the front page of each passport which was placed there by Indonesian Consular officials. Also there are cancelled stamps on the tourist visas which had been marked in the passports. This is something which can be very embarrassing, particularly for people travelling in Asia where there are constant stories of young people- this is a young couple- alleged to have committed some sort of drug offences. One can well imagine somebody looking at a passport like this drawing the erroneous conclusion that some allegation had been made of committing some drug offence or some matter of this kind. I do not believe it is a correct state of affairs that the Indonesian Government should attempt to intimidate Australian citizens by saying that if they speak up or belong to some organisation- I have already said that this couple did not belong to the organisation- or take a view on the position in East Timor they will be subject to this sort of discrimination, that they will not be allowed to go for a tourist trip to Bali or to pass through Indonesia as a tourist. These people have had the indignity of having their passports stamped in a way which could lead other people to the conclusion that they have committed some criminal offence or could well be suspected of having committed some criminal offence. I have nothing further to add to the matter except to say that I believe this is a matter which ought to be the subject of some sort of remonstration by the Australian Government to the Indonesian Embassy. 
I think the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  is entitled to some commendation for having brought down this statement. Whatever reservations one may have about pans of it, it does at least set out to give an overall view of the Australian approach to questions of foreign policy. It is not a series of disjointed statements; there is within it at least the basis of some thesis, some broad stream of which the various individual aspects of foreign policy can be looked on as being part. From that point of view, the statement should be welcomed as giving to the Parliament an opportunity to debate what are the purposes of Australian foreign policy. 
In the opening of his statement the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said quite correctly that there have been changes over past years in international relations. In particular, the major change has been that there is no longer the situation whereby we have the polarisation between 2 super powers, with nearly all of the rest of the world belonging to one camp or the other. The Minister is correct in pointing this out because there have been substantial changes. Preeminent amongst them, without any doubt, has been the growth of the People's Republic of China in strength and in influence, and the dispute between the People's Republic of China and the Soviet Union. Whereas 20 years ago one could talk with some sense, with some logic, about a communist bloc extending from Peking to Prague, one can no longer do that. In fact, the division between China and the Soviet Union would probably be the most serious division which exists in international affairs at the present time. 
If there is a danger of a third world war, a major conflict, taking place I do not think that any longer can we look at the disputes between the United States and the Soviet Union, between the so-called capitalist world and the so-called socialist world, or between the democratic world and the authoritarian world; we have to look at something about which we as members of the Australian Parliament can do very little, and that is the problem of the dispute between Peking and Moscow. A serious problem it is, but one about which it is very difficult for us to do much. The best we can do is to hope to have some sort of consistent theme of policy in those areas about which we can do something. Apart from the growth of China, which has been one of the major changes leading to the dissolution of this polarisation of the world, there has also been the growth of the European Economic Community. Many people, including myself, had reservations at the time of the Treaty of Rome. Despite the economic difficulties in some of the Western European countries, there cannot be any question that the formation of the European Economic Community has greatly strengthened the economic and political power of Western Europe and has, at least in part, created another centre away from the previous bi-polar situation to which the Minister for Foreign Affairs refers. 
Another change which has taken place only recently has been the change in the role of the Soviet Union itself, or at least in the successful pursuit of that role. For a long time we have been used to the fact that the Soviet Union has dominated in a quasi-colonial way a large number of countries in Eastern Europe. It has managed the affairs of Eastern European countries for them to such an extent that one Austrian socialist once put it to me that Czechoslovakia has the most neutral government in the world; it does not even interfere in its own internal affairs. That was the case, but the Soviet Union's influence did not go very far beyond that field. 
Whether for good or for ill, there cannot be any question that over the past few years we have seen a substantial increase in Soviet influence in the continent of Africa. Despite the ideological differences which are supposed to exist between the policies of Colonel Gaddafi, a man held in reverence in some quarters, and the Soviet Union, the fact remains that there are various very close relations between Colonel Gaddafi and the Soviet Union. There cannot be any question of the fact that, so far as southern Africa is concerned, the Soviet influence in Angola particularly, is very strong indeed. The relationship which the Soviet Union has been able to build up with various Arab countries has extended its influence into areas where only 10 years ago it had virtually no influence whatsoever. There has been a very great increase in Soviet influence, coupled at the same time with a very great diminution of American or other Western influence. 
Another change which has taken place, and this is a significant change and in many respects a welcome one, is in the attitudes of the Australian Government itself. For years and years all we heard about was the communist menace, and when anybody on this side of the Senate wanted to talk about trying to rationalise our relations with Communist countries, whatever we thought about the regimes they represented, whatever we thought about the levels of civil liberties or other matters within those countries, we were told that we were communist spies and saboteurs, and little red hammers and sickles were put on Labor Party posters. I note that in the course of his statement the Ministers said that China's foreign policy is concerned to maintain global and regional stability. That statement was made by a Liberal Party Minister for Foreign Affairs: China's foreign policy is concerned to maintain global and regional stability. It seems like only yesterday that we were told that China's objective was to take over Vietnam, take over Thailand, take over Malaysia, take over Indonesia, and ultimately achieve its heart's desire and be down here in sampans on Lake Burley Griffin. But apparently that is no longer the view of the Government. In fact, everybody now appears to be so eulogistic of China that every politician in Australia seems to have entered into a gigantic dim sim eating competition. That is a change which the Government has recognised. It has recognised that China is there, in the same way as the Soviet Union is there, and that we have to deal with both of those countries as governments which have their own interests and set out to pursue their own interests. It is no use, whatever criticisms we may have of them, continuing in the old bogeyman way that we used to conduct our international relations, or or at least the domestic debate on our international relations. That is a welcome change, and a change which I submit would not have come about as soon as it did had it not been for the actions which were taken by the Federal Labor Government when it was in office between 1972 and 1975. 
One of the most important changes, one ofthe most revolutionary changes, one of the most heartening changes that has taken place or appears to be going to take place- it is early at this stage to say whether it will really take placehave been the statements made and the actions taken by  President  Carter since he was elected to the presidency ofthe United States of America. I say this as one who had very great reservations about  Mr Carter's  candidature. I say it as one who, if I had been an American citizen, would not have voted for  Mr Carter;  I would have voted for the Socialist Party candidate, who got about 5000 votes. 
-Yes, it is an admission. The Socialist Party in the United States of America is very small. I did not think that that needed to be admitted. I thought that would have been well known by someone who has been elevated to this chamber. In spite of all the reservations one may well have had about many of the policies that President Carter may have embarked upon, one thing which he has done and which has transformed the whole debate in foreign affairs has been to give new emphasis to human rights. For too long foreign policy has been conducted as some sort of adjunct to trade policy. I do not want to denigrate the relationship between trade policy and foreign policy: of course they are related. But that is not what moves the hearts and minds of people. When people think about the great political issues which confront the world they do not think about improvements in the balance of trade. Admittedly, if they are starving they want to know where their food is coming from; if they do not have shelter they want to know where the shelter is coming from. Trade is essential for that. But the great motivating forces throughout the years, the great conflicts that have taken place and the great developments that have taken place in human history have been conducted and achieved because of other motives. 
One can only hope that President Carter and his Administration will have the courage, the luck and the fortitude to carry through what they have said to be the objective of their Administration, that is, to pursue a policy in support of human rights wherever they may be throughout the world; that they will protest- and justifiably protest- about deprivation of civil liberties in the Soviet Union, in Czechoslovakia or Poland and will take action accordingly, provided it does not crash us into a third world war. I hope they will be concerned also about deprivation of civil liberty and human rights in Southern Africa, Argentina, Chile and Uruguay- the last 3 traditional parliamentary democracies, all of which have been destroyed, not by the Left but by the capitalist class- by the extreme Right. 
What has been salutary about President Carter and what he has said so far is that human rights are indivisible. It is of no use talking on the one hand about human rights in Czechoslovakia and forgetting about human rights in Chile, as in the same way it is of no use talking about human rights in Chile and forgetting about human rights in Czechoslovakia. I think we can see a parallel at the present time- we are yet to know what the United States of America will do about this- in the very vexed situation which exists in what once was Portuguese East Timor, where we find that the rights of the Timorese people have been taken away by the Government of the Republic of Indonesia. I know that the argument will be used that East Timor was close to Indonesia, that Indonesia was worried about the threat that could come from the disruption of subversive bodies such as Fretilin taking over in Timor and that trouble could spread throughout the rest of Indonesia. 
This is exactly the same argument as was put by the Soviet Union at the time of its intervention in Hungary in 1956 and in Czechoslovakia in 1968 and which, as far as I understand, was rejected by honourable senators opposite. All sorts of other arguments about the Central Intelligence Agency, the Catholic Church, the West Germans and those sorts of things used to be used for the more simple souls. But when one ultimately got through to the end of the argument- at least I found this to be the case when talking to my Russian acquaintances- the answer would always be: 'Yes, but you have to understand the situation. Russia has been invaded twice in 25 years and we have to look out for what might happen on our borders. We cannot allow all sorts of things to be going on in Czechoslovakia which might lead to another terrible attack on the Soviet Union'. I rejected that claim then; the Australian Labor Party rejected it then and the Government parties rejected it then, but apparently many of the Government's supporters do not reject it with regard to East Timor, where exactly the same arguments can be used. I am reminded of the following words of Milton: 
So spake the Fiend, and with necessity, The tyrant 's plea,  excus'd  his devilish deeds. 
Precisely the same thing could be said about what happened in Czechoslovakia in 1968 as can be said now about what has happened in Timor. I believe that as Timor is so close to Australia, it is an area in which we have particular influence and interest and in which we are able to do something positive. No doubt many people will say and many critics of Carter have said that he is damaging America's interests by pursuing this human rights issue; that on the one hand he is damaging relations with the Soviet Union and, on the other hand, he is damaging relations with countries such as South Africa and even, in some more extreme cases, with Rhodesia- countries which apparently are essential to the American military defence. I think that anybody who says that should look at the recent statement by Joshua Nkomo, the leader of one of the several groups of Africans opposed to the present illegal Smith regime in Rhodesia. 
Nkomo is a man with a long record of being a moderate- a man who tried to do everything that conceivably could be done within the legal framework in Rhodesia and what was previously Southern Rhodesia. He continued to try to do that despite years and years of detention and harsh treatment. Just recently Nkomo stated that the people who supported him- the people who were opposed to the Smith regime- were developing closer and closer relations with the Soviet Union. Why were they doing that? It was because the Soviet Union was supporting them and the western countries, which talk about democracy, were not supporting them. When they were fighting for their lives it was only understandable that they would build up relations with those countries which provided them with arms, rather than with those which provided their oppressors with arms. 
I well remember some years ago, when I was living in England, meeting one of the leaders of the Portuguese Opposition- a Portuguese Socialist- who was working for a Soviet government agency. As democratic socialists, he and I agreed on a number of objections to the Soviet Union. I asked him why he continued to work for the Soviet Union. He said that whatever might be said about the Soviet Union or about how much better things were somewhere else, as far as their struggle with the fascist dictatorship in Lisbon was concerned, the fact was that the Soviet Union was supporting him, giving him a job and giving him assistance, whereas the Portuguese Government, a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation would have arrested him at least and possibly would have executed him if he had set foot in his own country. He pointed out that he had no alternative, if he were to take part in the struggle for Portuguese democracy, but to accept whatever assistance he could get and not say: 'Wouldn't it be lovely if the Americans or the British would help us? Unfortunately, they won't, so we will not do anything about Salazar until we get some assistance from them '. 
Therefore, I suggest that not only is it right and proper that the United States should object to the deprivation of civil liberties in South Africa and Rhodesia, but in the long run it is in the best interests of the United States to do so. A bloody confrontation will take place ultimately in Southern Africa. Day by day it is drawing closer and will continue to draw closer until that Armageddon arrives in Southern Africa unless something can be done to remove people like Vorster, that former member of the Nazi organisation who was interned during the Second World War for his pro-Nazi activities. Unless the Government of those people can be removed there will be a conflagration. The cause of the African people will be a just cause. If we find when that conflagration takes place that the Soviet Union has always been the friend of the Africans and that those people who talk about democracy have been the friends of the Nazis, that will damage us very severely where it hurts us most. I believe that if that happens we will deserve what we get. 
It behoves Australia to align itself with, and if anything to strengthen the stand taken by, the United States of America Government on these issues because not only is that stand right and moral, but also it is in our own interests to take such a stand. Nothing could be more shortsighted than to think that Smith is going to last more than a year or two or that Vorster or his people are going to last more than 10 years. They are going to go the way Angola and Mozambique went, and so they should, at least insofar as the transfer of power to the people is concerned. I do not mean that this should happen by way of massacres taking place, but that is what will take place unless we and the other democratic countries take steps to prevent this from taking place. 
I am glad to hear that it is not a controversial view. I have heard a number of people in  Senator Missen  's Party expressing contrary views at various times. I well remember during the various South African sporting visits to Australia a number of statements from members of the Liberal Party. If the Liberal Party and the National Country Party now believe they will do everything to give assistance to the struggle for freedom in South Africa and Rhodesia and that they will make it clear that we are aligned with those people against the governments of South Africa and Rhodesia I am delighted to hear it. I had not heard it before. I thank  Senator Missen  for pointing it out to me. I trust that he will point it out to the Minister for Foreign Affairs so that he can include it in his next foreign policy statement. It was certainly not included in this one. All the Minister said in this foreign policy statement was that he deplores apartheid and let it go at that. Of course the Prime Minister said certain things to  Mr Muldoon.  It would have been difficult not to have done so. But that does not really deal with the issues involved. What I am talking about is not a few words said to  Mr Muldoon  but active and positive assistance. Why have the people of Angola and Mozambique turned to the Soviet Union and China? They have done so because those countries gave them real assistance. Why has Joshua Nkomo turned to the Soviet Union? He has done so because that country gives real assistance. Australia is not giving real assistance. This Government is not giving real assistance. So far the Government of the United States has not given real assistance either. None of these matters should be separate. We should look at them as part of one whole. If we believe the democracy is a system which ought to be defended -400 Australians were killed in Vietnam, allegedly in defence of democracy- we should say that it is not something which ought to be thought of only when a war is actually started, but is also a policy which ought to be actively pursued at all times. Again, it is in our interests to see that countries are democratic. The people of India over the last few days have given one of the greatest affirmations of the strength of democracy that has been given anywhere in the world. India is a country where people could well have been excused because of" their great poverty and difficulties for saying that they would prefer efficiency to civil rights and that they would prefer bread, houses and rice to law courts and  habeas corpus.  The people of India have said that they do not. I do not doubt that the new Indian government will have tremendous difficulties, with such a great assortment of people united only in opposition to the Congress Party's administration and the emergency, in trying to form some sort of coalition government. Of course it will have great difficulties, but that is not the issue. What is significant is that the people of India have said that they want to preserve the democratic system and restore those elements of the democratic system which have been removed by the actions of aspiring autocrats and dictators. This is an example which ought to be heartening to democrats throughout the world. 
It is rare that democracies become involved in wars with each other. Very seldom are 2 democracies involved in a struggle against each other. Generally, in any conflict, at least one of the parties is an autocracy or a dictatorship. I know that it is now fashionable to be very friendly towards the People's Republic of China. I regard myself as being, in general terms, of a friendly disposition to that country. I was certainly in favour of establishing diplomatic relations a long time before any members of the Government were. One of the hazards we have to face now is the uncertainty in Chinese policy. It is not a democratic country. There is no open and free discussion within China on what is taking place within the country. People appear, disappear, re-appear, vanish, then find their names on wall posters. They are back again, out again, disappearing in planes on the border with the Soviet Union, returning from the grave, leading the cultural revolution and then becoming members of the Gang of Four.  Mrs Han  Suyin writes articles one day saying how Madam Chiang Ching is bringing about a new type of socialism and democracy because she is a guide of the cultural revolution and then a week later she writes in  Scope  that this is in fact not the case and that Madam Chiang Ching and 3 others were all members of the Gang of Four who were plotting to restore capitalism. Shifts and changes like these can take place only within a dictatorship. 
The argument that dictatorships are more stable than democracies is false. Nothing could be more unstable than what has been happening in countries ruled by dictatorships. It happened throughout the 1930s, 1940s and 1950s in the Soviet Union. It has been happening over the last 10 years in China. Dictatorships are unstable because people out in the street are not able to formulate opinions about what is going on. They are not able to bring reasoned judgment. They are not able to exercise proper democratic pressure. For that reason it is very much to our advantage that we press for the same human rights which have been outlined by President Carter. 
Of course, the first obligation of any government in pursuing its foreign policy is to look after the interests of its own citizens. The first obligation of the Minister for Foreign Affairs in Australia is to watch Australia's interests. I put it to the Senate that the best way of watching Australia's interests is by seeking to achieve human rights in Timor, Chile, the Soviet Union, China and in every place in the world where they have been denied. 
One other matter which has been dealt with in the Minister's statement concerns the Indian Ocean. I hope it will not be felt that I am in some way departing from what I have been saying earlier when I say that I believe that we are involved on a mistaken course in the Indian Ocean. Trying to press the United States to expand its naval and military presence in the Indian Ocean is not a way of dealing with the existing problems in the Indian Ocean. The presence of foreign navies, from wherever they come, must be of concern to the people who live around the Indian Ocean. It is natural that if one major power moves into an area, another major power will follow shortly after in order to protect its own interests. In the Indian Ocean which is relatively unimportant among the world's great oceans and is not bordered by any of the super powers- I include China as a super power in this respect- we have an opportunity to achieve a demilitarised zone. The proposals that  Mrs Ghandi  put forward while she was Prime Minister of India for a completely demilitarised zone in the Indian Ocean are policies which we should be supporting. I do not believe that we should feel embarrassed when it appears that the  President  of the United States is putting forward a policy contrary to that which this Government has expressed. I do not believe that we should try to dissuade him from doing what seems to follow from his overall view of the situation within the 
Indian Ocean. We should be working for peace within that area. I believe that is the most significant, immediate contribution that Australia can make within the field of foreign affairs. 
-We should not be advocating or supporting the building of an American base in Diego Garcia. I believe that there is already sufficient Western presence in the Indian Ocean with North West Cape and what we have in other parts of Australia, without adding to the risks of a conflagration by building up Diego Garcia. I am perfectly conscious of what has been happening in Berbera. I think I am perfectly conscious of the possible intentions of the Soviet Union within the Indian Ocean. I certainly think that one of the most positive steps we could take once relations have been cemented between the Australian Government and the new government in India is to pursue the approach of demilitarising the whole area. We will not be taking steps towards demilitarising the area if we encourage the United States to create a new base in Diego Garcia. 
I wish to refer briefly to the situation within the Middle East. It has been claimed recently by a number of people that the recent conference of the Palestine National Council, the governing body of the Palestine Liberation Organisation, has been a victory for the moderates. I should like to express a contrary view. I believe that the decisions that were taken at the meeting of the Palestine National Council were very alarming. The decision it took- apparently it is alleged to be a compromise between the moderates and extremists, whoever they are; it is sometimes difficult to disentangle them- is to the effect that the Palestine Liberation Organisation would be prepared to accept an independent Palestinian state on the west bank of the Jordan as a transitory step towards the complete demolition of the state of Israel and the establishment of one Palestinian state. If this is a victory for the moderates, 1 would be very alarmed to run into one of the extremists. What they have shown by this decision is that, despite the hopes which had been expressed by some people that there was a movement in the Palestine Liberation Organisation towards the acceptance of Israel on reduced borders as a sovereign state, it has now apparently been re-affirmed by all of them that they are still just as determined to destroy Israel as they ever were and that the only purpose that the so-called independent Palestinian state on the 
West Bank would serve would be as a launching pad for the destruction of Israel itself. 
It is not inside the walls. It is right alongside the walls. Certainly, whether it is a Trojan horse or not, if the policy of the PLO and the new Palestinian state is to be to destroy the state of Israel, clearly the existence of the new independent Palestinian state would really be a death blow to the state of Israel. I think that we should again as a people support the position which has been taken in general terms by the Israeli Government that it is not prepared to negotiate with the PLO while the PLO remains determined to destroy the state of Israel. Israel should only be prepared to negotiate with the PLO- and 1 believe that we should support it on this approach- when the PLO renounces its intention to destroy the state of Israel. If this is made clear, if the Arab patrons of the PLO make that clear, negotiations can take place about borders. One ought to be as flexible as one can be about borders. But for so long as the PLO says that it will use this proposed Palestinian state only in order to destroy Israel, I think we have a commitment as one of the countries which was responsible for the formation of Israel and as fellow democrats to see that the Israelis are not placed in the position where they will be blackmailed into accepting negotiations or a settlement of this kind which can lead in a few years time only to their destruction. 
I am very proud that one of the people who played an important role in the establishment of Israel was  Dr Evatt,  who was Minister for External Affairs in a former Labor government. When he held that portfolio, he was subject to a certain amount of derision by various people in Australia because he advocated, as one of the cornerstones of the United Nations Charter and one of the objectives towards which Australia should work, the preservation of the rights of small states. That was one of the principles for which Evatt stood. It was something for which the Australian Labor Party stood. Unfortunately, in past years, our policy on some of these matters seem to have become a little blurred. 
I call for a return to the principles of those policies which  Dr Evatt  pursued when he was Minister for External Affairs in a former government of this country. I refer to the preservation of the rights of the small states and the real working of the United Nations Charter so that no country, however big, can set about destroying any other country, however small. We should have friendly relations between people of different ideologies. 
We should not allow people of one ideology to try to overthrow the government of a country with a different ideology. At the same time, we must make it clear to all that we have friendlier and better relations with those countries which believe in a democratic system and stand for human rights than those which do not. If we do this, I believe that Australia has a tremendous chance within the next 10 years to make a huge contribution to averting the terrifying dangers which face humanity at the present time. 
I wish to support the motion which has been moved by  Senator Wriedt,  and I do so because I believe that this is a serious debate and therefore ought to be adjourned. The more serious the debate is the more are the arguments for adjourning it. We cannot have a proper inquiry into the subject without knowing the facts. 
-Yes, that is the standard form. 
-Because I do not think that we are in a position to acquire the facts of this matter at a later hour this day, or I am not in a position to do that. I do no know about anybody else, but I am certainly not in a position to acquire this information. I was in the position when I was Minister for Repatriation and Compensation that documents were constantly being leaked to me from the AMP Society and from the National Mutual Life Association. I do not make any secret of the fact that I used them and I used them to very great effect. I aroused the admiration of the people of Australia for the way in which I used them. But I had no connection with the purloining of the documents. Whoever it was within those organisations who was purloining the documents, it would have been one thing for me as a politician to say that I was using them but it would have been totally different for the person who was employed by the organisation to say he was engaged in legitimate political activities in stealing his employers' documents and giving them to me, whoever he was. This report is based apparently on the statements that have been made by  Senator Sim  that to the best of his knowledge a document has been stolen. 
-He said that to the best of his knowledge a document had been stolen. That is what  Senator Sim  said. He said that to the best of his knowledge a document had been taken, anyway. I do not know that there is much point in arguing about the verbiage. A document disappeared, and it appears to have been improperly taken. By way of coincidence or in some other manner the contents of the document appeared in a newspaper. I do not think that anybody is alleging in this statement or anywhere else that the person who took the document was the person who wrote the article. If one reads the document, it does not say that. Anybody could have taken the document and handed it on to somebody else. We do not know all of these matters. 

 Mr President, your report refers to general security in Parliament and to the missing document. Of course, if the journalists were given a document, if it came into their hands, I believe they would use it in the same way as I would use documents and many other people would use them. But this is another matter, and a much more important matter, which is raised here, and that is the security of Parliament itself. If a senator says that documents have been stolen, that is a matter which requires some investigation. I do not think that it is a matter which can be dealt with at a later hour of this day or by all of us jumping up here and giving our opinions on the subject when all we know is the statement we have just heard. It is a serious question that ought to be examined and, for that matter, ought to be adjourned to the next day of sitting or whatever the appropriate occasion is. when there has been some time to consider it and we can debate a serious matter seriously. 
I think it is unfortunate that in a debate of this nature the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  has introduced matters of a partisan nature such as the present competition for the leadership in the Labor Party and what might be  Senator Gietzelt  's motives for moving this motion. I am not a mind reader. I do not know what everybody's motives are. I can assure the Senate that as far as I am concerned and as far as the overwhelming majority of members of the parliamentary Labor Party are concerned, this matter was brought forward because we believe it is serious and warrants the consideration of the Senate. We hoped that this was a matter in which we would be able to achieve this much vaunted bipartisan approach to political questions. I spoke to a number of members on the Government side of the chamber for the very purpose of effecting this objective of trying to achieve a bipartisan approach to this matter and, if possible, having talks with them as to any amendments that might be made with regard to the composition or nature of the committee or the scope of the terms of reference. 
This is a very serious question for Australia. It will be very deplorable if foreign policy debates in this country are to be returned once again to what we had to go through in the 1950s and 1960s when whatever was said about foreign policy was meant for domestic consumption and not intended in any way to try to resolve the serious foreign policy problems that faced us. We have already seen- we are seeing it constantlythat the crises that are involved in the major disputes within foreign policy can effect the very life and death of a nation and to reduce this matter to the level of some partisan argument about what  Senator Gietzelt  thinks of  Mr Whitlam  or  Mr Whitlam  thinks of  Senator Gietzelt  does no honour to the Parliament or to Australia. It certainly does no service to Australia when we reduce parliamentary debate to this level. 
We have tried to be as reasonable as possible in putting forward all of those things which we think are relevant to the question: What were the origins of the conflict, what happened to the people of Timor themselves, what happened to the Australian journalists who were certainly murdered by somebody in Timor- that seems to be clearly beyond dispute; we want to find out who did it if we possibly can- and what we can do by way of extending aid and giving additional assistance to the people in Timor. That is what we are asking. I cannot see that this can in any way be taken as some slanderous attack on the Government. Labor was in government during a large part of these proceedings. I was a Minister in the Government during these proceedings. So was  Senator Douglas  McClelland. So was  Senator Wriedt.  We were all Ministers in the Government, but we believe there ought to be an examination of this matter. 

 Senator Withers has asked us whether we should be investigating every country which has done something wrong or something of which some of us disapprove. He said that this is not the only instance where events of this kind have taken place. Of course it is not the only instance. Unfortunately we live in a rather unpleasant world and things like this seem to be going on all the time. There is one very significant difference about what has happened in Timor, and that is that Timor is an island only a few hundred miles from the coast of Australia. Parts of Timor are much closer to parts of my own electorate of Western Australia than is Perth where I live. This motion does not ask us to investigate something that happened in central America or disputes between Zaire and the Congo. This is something which is happening on our very borders and something which has directly influenced Australian citizens because Australian citizens were murdered there by somebody. Let us not say by whom they were murdered. But Australian citizens were murdered there and that warrants some investigation. Surely  Senator Withers  cannot say that the strain on the staff of the committee secretariat of the Senate is a serious argument for not proceeding with this investigation. 
I thought the honourable senator was saying that the Senate did not have the committee resources. 1 thought that was what he said. I am sorry. That was my impression. I thought there was some discussion about the resources of the committee system. If the honourable senator did not say that I do not understand him. If that argument is put forward I can only say that we have a very strange order of priorities in this Parliament when I consider some of the matters that have been considered by committees. To say, for example, that we have the resources to investigate the Middle East, and nobody is more interested in the Middle East than I am, but we do not have the resources to investigate Timor is a very extraordinary way of looking at our geography and a very strange way of looking at the issues which impinge most directly on this country. 

 Senator Withers has said that such a committee would have no power to seek and obtain evidence outside Australia. It certainly would not have power to subpoena people from outside Australia or to compel them to come before it. But it would have every power in the world to make requests to people to give evidence. At this very moment one of the members of the staff of the Legislative Research Service in this Parliament is attending a committee of the United States Congress to give evidence. He was requested to go there. That committee could not have compelled him to go. He was requested and he went. This is a question of international law. We can make a request the same as a committee of any other Parliament or legislature can make a request. In fact I recall that when I was a member of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange the General Counsel of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission came to Australia and gave evidence to our Committee. We could not subpoena him, but we requested his presence and he very obligingly came. 
-If they will not come we cannot hear what they have to say. I would have thought that was fairly obvious. If they will not come they are not there. That is perfectly true. A problem which lawyers are confronted with every day is that all the witnesses they would like to have do not turn up. All you can do is try to do your best. Presumably some people will come and others will not come. Some of the people who do not come would have been very valuable and some of the people who do come are not worth listening to. Of course that goes on with any committee of inquiry. If the witnesses do not come they are not there. At least we can request them to come. It seems to me that there are at least some requests to which interested parties will respond. The Indonesian Government itself has been providing evidence or information to the United States House of Representatives Committee which is examining this matter. I would be very surprised indeed if the representatives of the Indonesian Government did not provide some information if a committee such as the one proposed were constituted. It would seem to be an extraordinary action on their part if they did not. 
I am quite positive that there were people who were in Timor, people who claimed to have been in Timor and are at present in Portugal or elsewhere, who say that they have seen things happening and who would be prepared to give evidence to such a committee. There would be a wide variety of people who would come forward. To use the argument that we could not compel them to give evidence, I believe, gets us nowhere whatsoever. The United States Committee cannot compel anybody outside the borders of the United States or anybody within those borders who has diplomatic immunity to give evidence but it is still managing to hold an inquiry about a country much farther from the United States than Timor is from Australia and much less important to the United States than Timor is to Australia. The United States House of Representatives has agreed to hold this inquiry. 

 Senator Withers also says that this proposed committee would be a witch-hunt. There is no witch-hunt about this when one is trying to obtain information.  Senator Wriedt  asked by way of interjection about the Nuremburg trials when people were actually prosecuted. I do not think that that exercise could be described as a witch-hunt as could not the action of the United Nations itself- this is something which members of the present Government Parties applauded and I would applaud- which, after the Soviet intervention in Hungary in 1 956, created a commission of inquiry under the chairmanship of  Sir Leslie  Monro from New Zealand in terms not very different from those in this proposition in that there should be an investigation into the circumstances relating to the intervention by Soviet armed forces in Hungary. That was agreed to. Was that a witch-hunt? Are we now saying that that should not have taken place, that there should not have been an elaboration of the facts and of the events that occurred in Hungary in 1956? Of course there should have been. It is very important that history should be recorded, that it should be written so that people know what happened however unpalatable the events may be. 
I realise that such inquiries may perhaps cause some distress to the relatives of the people who died, although I must confess I do not know how their distress will be added to by the fact that somebody appears to be trying  to  unravel the truth of the deaths of their relatives. Why this should make them more upset I really do not know. I would have thought the contrary. Of course it can be distressing to unveil the truth. But, as the old saying goes, the truth shall make you free. If you know precisely what happened it is the best means of preventing something like that from happening again in the future. For example  Senator Sim  has claimed- I think he was interjecting a moment ago- that there is no fault on the part of the Indonesians and that the atrocities were committed by Fretilin. I know that anybody who is interested in this matter will largely have made up his or her mind by now. But as we have seen on all sorts of committees of this Parliament people who have often made up their minds can when they hear evidence change their minds. 
If  Senator Sim  is correct and the Indonesians behaved properly and the atrocities did not occur- they were exaggerated, or they were necessity atrocities, or whatever it is that is being put to us- by all means let us get the evidence about each  aspect so  that we do not have an unjustified slur cast on the good name of the Republic of Indonesia. That is serious too if people are going to go on thinking that Indonesia went into a neighbouring piece of soil to Australia and murdered 100 000 people, and they did not do it. That is very bad, very bad indeed, that people should harbour such ill notions about our large neighbour when those notions have no justification. I would have thought that those who believe that the Indonesians behaved correctly would welcome the opportunity for clearing their client, if I may put it in those terms, the opportunity for which an inquiry of this nature would make available to them. 
Precisely. As  Senator Missen  says, this is the justification for an ombudsman. That is precisely what he does. He is not prosecuting people. He is drawing attention to administrative actions taken by somebody or other, which should not have taken place, in order that they may be noted and that something may be done to prevent similar things from happening in the future. That is what this is all about. That is the purpose of this proposal which comes before us tonight. 
-That is right; to bring out the truth or the falsehood of the various allegations.  Senator Withers  says to us this evening that there is no substantiated evidence that 100 000 people in Timor have been killed by the Indonesians. Apparently the more reliable estimate is that there were only some 10 000 who were killed. Well, that is 10 000 people. If it were one-tenth, if it were one-hundredth, or if it were 100 000, surely in a country with a population of 450 000 to have that number of people killed is a matter of some concern. If it were only 10 000, if my arithmetic serves me correctly, that is over 2 per cent of the population; and that is a pretty substantial number of people to have killed off in the course of a few months. Without dragging up the matter of the Vietnam war again, I point out that we became involved in that conflict with much less evidence of anything happening than we have about Timor. There seems to be a great deal of evidence. It may be unsubstantiated evidence, whatever that means. I am not quite sure what is meant by the term 'unsubstantiated evidence'. If somebody is prepared to swear that something has happened it is evidence. I suppose what that means is that it is uncorroborated evidence; I do not know. But it certainly is evidence and evidence from reliable persons. It was not a Labor Government that appointed  Mr Dunn  to be our Australian Consul in Portugese Timor, as it then was. It was a then Liberal-Country Party Government that appointed him there. Apparently those Parties were satisfied with his services. He was then appointed to a senior position within the Parliament during the period of office of the same Parties now in Government and when the presiding officers belonged to the same Parties. I can only assume that there must have been most reliable references given as to his capacity and integrity by the Department of External Affairs, as it then was, before he was appointed to his present occupation. Are we to say that, when he comes forward and puts to us statements of events which he alleges and which he says from his experience in gathering evidence have taken place in Timor this is just unsubstantiated evidence and we do not need to go into it at all? I do not believe that this is so. I believe there is much more to be done about the charges that have been made by  Mr Dunn  and other people. 
In conclusion, I say that, if the argument is used, as it has been, by  Senator Withers,  that this is a new role for Senate committees one can only comment that it is only very recently that we have had Senate committees making inquiries at all of the type that are now being made. That argument could have been used when the Public Accounts Committee was established. It was a new role for the Parliament to have a Public Accounts Committee. When the Joint Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence was appointed, that was something new that was happening. It is something that should have happened before. We are not going to be able to make proper judgments about matters about which we ought to be able to make proper judgments if such judgments inhibit us. Certainly what has happened in Timor and what are the nature, character and history of the actions of the Government of Indonesia are of very great importance to Australia. It is of very great importance to know whether that Government is a government which was responsible for the murder of between 10 000 and 100 000 people or whether it is a Government which has been quite unjustifiably accused. It is important for us to know that.  Senator Withers  says we do not know that now. The matters are unsubstantiated. We have an opportunity of substantiating any evidence that has been put or rejecting any evidence that has so far been sent around the place in all sorts of directions. That can be done only by a properly informed inquiry by members of this Parliament. For that reason I support the proposition. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs seen reports of a recent statement by  President  Carter to the effect that his Administration may take steps to prevent the export of manufactured products from the United States to the Republic of South Africa, if those manufactured products are used in racially segregated facilities? In view of the Government 's professed distaste for apartheid and support for the American alliance, will it consider taking the same sorts of steps as are envisaged in this regard by the  President  of the United States of America? 
I should like to ask the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  a question in relation to clause 3. There is no definition of government' within clause 3. As I suggested in the second reading debate, and as was acknowledged by the Minister, this would exclude Rhodesia or Zimbabwe where there is no government recognised by this or any other country. One of the strongest complaints that has been received about the recruitment of mercenaries has been for service in Rhodesia. This is not a hypothetical case. In most of the countries one could think of there has been no conflict taking place. But in Rhodesia foreign nationals are taking part in the conflict on both sides. Can the Government give consideration, if not within this legislation in some other legislation, to proposing a law which would prevent the participation of Australians in the present conflict in Rhodesia? This is probably one of the most pressing conflicts at present. The legislation before us has as its objective the elimination of action by Australian citizens and residents in conflicts in overseas countries. Yet one of the countries where this is most evident is apparently not covered by the Bill. I put it to the Minister that further consideration needs to be given to other countries. At the moment we do not recognise the Government in Taiwan. If we recognise any government, presumably we recognise the Government in Peking as being the Government of Taiwan. Again, this is not a hypothetical matter. This is a matter where there could be conflict. One can envisage that unfortunately, in Africa and possibly in Latin America there will be a large number of countries of which over the next few years it will be very difficult to say who is the government. I appreciate that at this stage this is rather difficult to overcome by way of an amendment. Can the Minister give any indication as to whether some study of this matter is being made by the Government? 
My views on this Bill are the same as those admirably expressed by  Senator James  McClelland in his analysis of it. 1 believe that the intentions of the Bill are commendable. Some of the clauses of the Bill, particularly clause 7 relating to the training of armed men within Australia and the drilling of armed men within Australia, are essential and I do not think anybody on either side of the Senate could oppose these propositions in any way. But there is a difficulty to which  Senator James  McClelland drew attention and which I would like to hear the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  deal with in his reply to this debate. I refer to the problem which arises if, in pursuance of the powers which would be vested in the Minister under clause 9 (2) of the Bill, the appropriate instrument were published in the  Gazette  permitting the recruitment in Australia of persons to serve overseas in a manner which is otherwise precluded by the provisions of the Bill. How are we to overcome the problem of clause 6 which nonetheless continues to make it an offence for the person to serve? 
-No, it is not an altogether different thing. Clause 6 places a prohibition on people engaging in certain forms of activity within foreign countries. 
-Not only terrorist activity. If  Senator Missen  reads the entire clause he will see that it involves a very extended use of the word 'terrorism'. It could also mean serving as a private in an army engaging in activities which would only be described as being terrorist on a most extended use of the word 'terrorist'. Provision is made for this to be an offence and elsewhere provision is made for anybody who recruits such persons to commit an offence. But clause 9 (2) does enable the Minister to proclaim in the  Gazette  that certain armed forces are exempt from these prohibitions and to allow recruitment to take place. 
I am afraid it does. That is exactly what it does say. It allows the recruitment to take place but says nothing about waiving the prohibition on taking part in these activities overseas. 
-Yes, that is right. Clause 9(2) talks about recruitment but elsewhere there is a prohibition on the service itself subsequent to the recruitment. So the position as it stands now is that if a proclamation is issued the person who does the recruiting will not be committing an unlawful action but the person he recruits will be committing an unlawful action within the terms of clause 6 of the Bill. 
Another difficulty which I think requires explanation is in the definitions referred to in clause 6(3). Clause 6(1) says amongst other things that a person shall not 'engage, in a foreign country, in a hostile activity against the government of that country'. But then, in the definition of such hostile activity in clause 6(3), it defines them, amongst other things, as 'causing by force or violence the public in the foreign country to be in fear of suffering, death or personal injury'. I have no doubt of the intention; it is in order to prevent terrorists from setting off bombs at airports and doing the things that terrorists normally engage in. In fact it would seem that any reasonable construction of clause 6(3)(b) would cover any person who was serving in the armed forces of the government of another country. Surely somebody who is engaging in military activity, whether for the lawful government or some other force, by the very nature of his occupation must be causing or tending to cause, by force or violence, the public in the foreign country to be in fear of suffering, death or personal injury. I would like some clarification of that matter. 
It seems from the way the Bill stands now that whatever the clause purports- it is intended to deal specifically with persons serving in the forces of the government of a foreign countrythat definition could lead one to the conclusion that somebody serving with those forces was in breach of this Act, if it becomes an Act, from the very nature of the occupation in which he is engaged. 
I agree that these are matters of drafting and they do not go to the heart of the intention of the Bill. I think all honourable senators would agree that we are now in the position where some sort of action has to be taken in order to prevent a recurrence of the events which the Minister acknowledged in his second reading speech. I think it is universally agreed now that there were two armed assaults against Yugoslavia carried out by persons normally resident in this country. It is an intolerable state of affairs that people should be subjected to terrorism in Yugoslavia, or anywhere else, as a result of action taken within Australia. All sorts of governments have had to take an interest in this matter. The Government of the Federal Republic of Germany several years ago found it necessary to expel from that country the office of the General Union of Palestinian Students- although it was something which largely occurred within its own bordersbecause they were implicated in a number of terrorist activities, one of the most notable being the murder of a number of Israeli atheletes and members of their group at Munich during the Olympic Games of 1 972. 
The situation which has to be dealt with now is new. It is not a situation which confronted governments 200, 100 or even 50 years ago. Through the rapid mobility of people by jet aircraft, through new developments in high explosives, through concealable weapons and these sorts of things the possibility of terrorism which can cause the deaths of hundreds of people is a problem with which the statesmen of a generation or more ago did not have to grapple. 
I would not agree with  Senator Baume  's use of the word mercenary, as I think probably a happier expression could be used to describe some of the people who have served as volunteers in the armed forces of other countries, either with the government forces or with the opposition forces. Certainly, there is no doubt that many of those people have made a great contribution to human civilization. I have nothing but respect for those volunteers who served with the Spanish International Brigade, the people who came from throughout the world to fight against the nazis and fascists in Spain. These people came from many countries. They were openly recruited in democratic western European countries, Great Britain and the United States of America. Also, a much lesser number were recruited to serve with the various fascist legions which supported Franco. 
There is no doubt that all of us are in the debt of those volunteers from those countries which were neutral and who served with the armed forces of the allies in the early stages of the Second World War. There is a memorial in St Paul 's Cathedral or in Westminster Abbey- I forget which- to Pilot Officer Fisk, an American who volunteered and served with the Eagle Squadron of the Royal Air Force before America came into the Second World War. He was killed in the Battle of Britain and is the first American citizen known to have been killed in the Second World War. Certainly, I do not think anybody here would want to condemn the members  of  the Eagle Squadron, the American volunteers, who enlisted in the fight for democracy against fascism in the Second World War. In fact, whatever this legislation may try to do and whatever some of us may want to do, people who arc as dedicated as that will not be stopped. 
A substantial number of people who served in the International Brigade in Spain were from Germany and Italy. They went there despite the wishes of Hitler and Mussolini. They would have been executed if their own governments could have laid their hands on them. People who are dedicated to this extent are not mercenaries. They are fighting because of feelings of very high idealism or dedication. Whatever one may think of the cause to which they commit themselves, they will not be deterred by legislation of this kind. The people who will be deterred are the mercenaries, people who are engaging in some conflict merely to make money unless, of course, they are so psychopathic that they are not subject to any sort of influence whatsoever. 
I come to a particular matter on which I would like some clarification from the Minister. It concerns a country in which, at the present time, it appears that a large number of people, whether mercenaries or idealists, are serving, and that is Rhodesia. We have a difficulty because I do not think anyone knows what the government is in Rhodesia. Not one country, including the Republic of South Africa and even Portugal under Salazar, has recognised the Smith regime in Salisbury as being the government of Rhodesia. There is not one country with which Rhodesia has diplomatic relations. It was a result of a United Nations decision, to which at least lip service is paid by all countries, that Rhodesian passports are not recognised. The Rhodesian government is not recognised as it comprises a group of people illegally holding power. I would be obliged if the Minister, when he replies, would deal with this matter and tell us about the position in Rhodesia. Is there a government in Rhodesia? What happens if somebody goes there? As the basis of the prohibition in this Bill relates to governments, what U the government in Rhodesia? Can this matter be dealt with? Does this Bill in any way cover the situation in Rhodesia and the possible recruitment of people to take part in fighting in Rhodesia? If this is not the case, is it envisaged that some sort of special legislation could be introduced to cover the situation in that country? This is not a country in which there is a hypothetical problem of people undertaking some sort of military service. It is, in fact, happening. To the best of my understanding of the Bill, the current juridical situation of the so-called government in Rhodesia is not dealt with by the proposals which we have here at the present time. 
With  Senator James  McClelland I agree that it is quite proper that there are circumstances in a democratic society in which the Minister may say that it is in the best interests of this country that people should be allowed to participate in an overseas conflict. This is taking into account the difficulty which both of us have raised about the lack of distinction between recruitment and actual service. There may well be occasions on which the Australian Government would feel that it is proper for Australians to volunteer to serve in the forces either of the government or of some opposition group of another country. This is a matter which would have to be dealt with by the people of Australia. As I understand it, through the provisions of the proposed amendment, any such proclamation or notice would have to be tabled in both Houses of the Parliament. This would give an opportunity to members of both the Houses to debate the matter. So it would be a clear political decision about which the people of Australia would be able to make their own judgment. 
In conclusion, I think it has to be said that we will not solve the problems of terrorism- this Bill is primarily directed against terrorists rather than against people enlisting in the regular armed forces of some overseas countries- until such time as we can get international agreement and united international action to supress terrorism. As long as we have countries like Libya which harbour and encourage terrorists any efforts we make here will be very small. Any country which is subject to terrorism from some other source will have no alternative but to strike back by the best means available to it. Over the last couple of years there have been unfortunate events in Norway where it is alleged that members of the Israeli secret service killed members of the Palestine Liberation Organisation.  Mr President,  I suggest to you that as long as we have certain governments sponsoring and harbouring members of the PLO and providing arms and weapons to the PLO, we will find that any government against which the PLO directs its fire- in this case Israel- will not have any alternative, because we do not live in a perfect world, but to strike back and hit them and put them out of business. I think any government would have a responsibility to do that. If this country were under threat by terrorists from some overseas source, I believe it would be irresponsible for the Australian government in those circumstances not to adopt exactly the same methods. So, in order to achieve what I believe the Government is trying to achieve in this Bill and those aspects of the Bill which I believe the Opposition supports, it will not be sufficient for us to carry legislation here, however adequate it may be for the limited amount of recruitment and participation by Australian nationals or Australian residents in overseas conflicts. What we need is an enforceable international agreement on terrorism and to see that we play our full pan in enforcing any such agreement. 
I wish to speak very briefly on this matter. I do not wish anyone to confuse my argument with  Senator Wright's  argument. I think we have somewhat different purposes involved in the examination of this subject. The Minister has been complaining about excessive legalism and suggesting that we ought to look more to the substance of the Bill. I must say that I found his last answer a little extraordinary because I was not engaging in any legalism but asking whether there were any concrete proposals with regard to an area in which something is taking place at the present time, not something which will take place, and that is in regard to the recruitment of people to serve in Rhodesia. He has told us that clause 9 covers Rhodesia. I think there is a certain measure of doubt about this because throughout clause 9 references are made to governments. I do not want to debate that matter at the moment. The question I put to the Minister is whether there is any possibility of the Government introducing legislation- I think this is the appropriate occasion during the debate on this clause in the Committee stage to ask this questionwhich will cover the situation in Rhodesia in the same way as it covers countries where there are  de jure  and  de facto  governments recognised by Australia. It seems extraordinary that, in effect, this Bill excludes one area where we find the most serious problem of mercenary service at the present time. 
I would like to raise another matter which relates to the drafting of the Bill. I am not trying to criticise the draftsmen. I appreciate the problems they have with a Bill of this kind. I refer specifically to clause 6 (3) (b) in which the definition of engaging in hostile activity against the Government of a foreign country is: 
causing by force or violence the public in the foreign country to be in fear of suffering death or personal injury. 
As I understand clause 6, its purpose is to prohibit the taking part in these various activities against the government of a country. Clause 6 specifically refers to that. It does not refer to other activities. But the definition included in sub-clause (3) (b) and which defines this intergovernmental activity includes:  causing by force or violence the public in the foreign country to be in fear of suffering death or personal injury. 
Obviously that would apply to somebody who was serving in the armed forces of the government. That is what military service is about. It is to cause fear of suffering death or personal injury. In fact, it is to inflict suffering, death and personal injury. The only army, presumably, which does not try to do this is the Salvation Army. People are not alleged to have been recruited into that corps. I ask the Minister whether he will agree that the interpretation which I have put on this sub-clause is correct and that, in fact, it would prohibit anybody taking part in any activities within the terms of clause 6, whether on behalf of a government or against a government. Would it be possible for the Minister to have a further look at this sub-clause for the purpose of making it perhaps somewhat more satisfactory? 
I wish again to involve myself in the debate on clause 6. 1 believe that the Government ought to be giving further consideration, not so much specifically to the amendment moved by  Senator Wright  but to the issues opened up by him in speaking to the amendment. The specific situation to which he has drawn attention in his amendment is the Entebbe type of incident and the hijacking of aircraft. However, when one considers the proposition put forward by  Senator Wright,  there are very wide reaching implications in what he said. There could well be a group of private persons who would find it necessary to take defensive action of some sort against a foreign government. If one looks at clause 6 ( 1 ), it states: 
A person shall not- 
) enter a foreign country with intent to engage in a hostile activity . . . 
engage, in a foreign country, in a hostile activity . . . 
One could well envisage all sorts of circumstances, not only those which  Senator Wright  has put forward, in which a private Australian ship or an Australian plane could be involved in a position where it was under attack or some sort of threat from the government of a foreign country. It would be necessary for it to enter that country in order to preserve itself. The point I am making, and I think it follows from the point that  Senator Wright  initially was making, is that there is no provision for any form of self defensive action to be taken by Australian citizens against the actions of some foreign government. Maybe the issues involved in this are insuperable but certainly in such an important piece of legislation as this, which as we have already said we agree with in principle, I would submit to the Minister that the Government ought to pay more heed to the matters that have been raised by honourable senators both on the Government side and on the Opposition side of the chamber. Possibly the matter should be referred to the appropriate Senate committee-the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. This is not a satisfactory way of dealing with complex legislation- to try to get it through in the sort of debate that takes place in the Senate chamber on a second reading or, for that matter, in the Committee stage. 
I ask the Minister for Social Security whether she is aware that a meeting, organised by the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association and the Australian Public Service Association, was held in Perth yesterday of officers of the Western Australian branch of the Department of Social Security; that proposals were put to the meeting that it should deplore what was described as the waste of financial and manpower resources involved in the working of continuous overtime and that in consequence thereof, among other things, there should be a ban on the working of all overtime in the Department of Social Security in Western Australia from midnight last night until the problem of understanding which is complained about has been corrected, a ban on the handling of ministerial and parliamentary inquiries from midnight last night and a ban on the collection and collation of statistics from midnight last night, and that a further meeting be held on 3 May at which further action can be considered. Does the Minister know whether these proposals were adopted by the officers of the Department? If so, have the bans been applied? What will be the consequences of such bans? What action does the Government propose to take? 
Some weeks ago in an interim report from the Joint Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, which has been inquiring into matters relating to the Middle East, some unfavourable mention was made of radio station 3CR in Melbourne, a so-called community radio station. Since that time another episode has occurred which I should like to bring to the attention of the Senate and of the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, who has some responsibility for supervising these matters and is a member of the Government which at least has a connection with radio station 3CR. Radio station 3CR is apparently managed by an organisation known as the Community Radio Federation, which has affiliated to it a number of disparate organisations known as community groups. 
An application was made during the past weeks by an organisation in Melbourne known as Paths to Peace. That is an organisation consisting predominantly of Jewish Australians who are concerned about the present conflict in the Middle East. The organisation has associations with political parties in Israel, which I think could be accurately described as Left Wing political parties and which take a position that could be regarded as super-doveish and well beyond the existing policy of the present Israeli Government with regard to the proposals they put forward for a settlement of the problems arising from the dispute between Israel and its neighbours. When an application was made by Paths to Peace for affiliation with the Community Radio Federation it was rejected by the committee of the Community Radio Federation on the ground that Paths to Peace was a Zionist and therefore racist organisation. 
I think there are a number of obvious conclusions that one can draw from this decision. The first is that it does give some evidence of the alarming growth of anti-semitism in this country which is clothed with the euphemism of opposition to Zionism, but from my experience with people who have been putting forward some of the allegedly anti-Zionist arguments I think this goes well beyond the bounds of legitimate political debate to the extent of being racist in the terminology which is used and racist in the propositions which are put forward. Whatever one may think about that, the fact is that Paths to Peace is at least as much a community organisation as the other organisations which are affiliated with the Community Radio Federation which was established by the Australian Government in order to give various community organisations the opportunity to express their views on the topics that interest them and their members. 
It was established by the Labor Government and it has been continued by the present Government. The intention of establishing community radio stations was to enable people and various voluntary organisations to have an opportunity to disseminate what they thought about matters that concerned them to people who could listen to the radio. I think what also came out with regard to this action by the Community Radio Federation quite clearly is that if Paths to Peace is not eligible for affiliation to the Federation, is not allowed to have a voice on radio station 3CR, then no other Jewish organisation would be able to be heard on this station, because the least militantly Zionist of all the organisations of Jewish people or other people who are concerned about the continued existence of the State of Israel is this very organisation, Paths to Peace. It is an organisation which is critical of the Israeli Government and is critical even of Mapam, the left wing member of the Labor alignment, for not being sufficiently conciliatory in attitudes towards the Palestinian organisations and what are referred to as the Arab claims. So I repeat that if this body is excluded from having any right to broadcast on station 3CR then no Jewish organisation in Australia would be able to be heard on that station. 
I think that this, apart from illustrating the anti-semitism, which I do not think has reached the level at which it may be described as rampant but certainly is growing at a distressing rate in this society, is clearly an improper use of a community radio station. There are organisations with a great many differing ideologies and beliefs which are represented at present and yet to the best of my knowledge this organisation, which is expressing in the mildest possible way support for the continued existence of Israel, is precluded from having any voice. A number of the people who are responsible for this action which has been taken against Paths to Peace would be the very people who would be the first to cry McCarthyism if anybody were to do anything to limit their right to freedom of speech. 
I would agree, of course, that the people who constitute the Community Radio Federation are entitled to express their view. It always has been the view of the Australian Labor Party that they should be able to express their view. We established such stations as 3CR so that they would have the opportunity to express their view. But while we ought to be concerned about McCarthyism I believe we also ought to be concerned about Stalinism. What is being practised by the Committee of the Community Radio Federation is blatant Stalinism, if that is what you want to call it, or McCarthyism, if that is what you want to call it. I believe that the Minister, whatever his precise relationship is with the people who are responsible for the issuing of licences to 3CR or other community radio stations and for regulating their broadcasting, ought to examine this matter. It is an intolerable situation that citizens of this country are paying taxes for the maintenance of the radio broadcasting system in Australia, that a government establishes a radio station in order to allow free participation by all sorts of diverse political, cultural and social organisations over the radio networks and yet one group is singled out and is not allowed to express its point of view. It is not the sort of situation that ought to be allowed in any democratic country and it is certainly not a situation that ought to be allowed to continue in Australia. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs become aware of the fact that a number of Australians, particularly members of Amnesty International, are concerned about the imprisonment for alleged political offences of large numbers of Indonesian men and women particularly on Buru Island? Could the Minister find out from his colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, what information the Australian Government has at present about the confinement of these people, apparently without trial, on Buru Island; whether any representations have been made by the Australian Government as to their wellbeing; and, if that has not been done, whether any such representations can be made? 
-My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, relates to earlier questions which have been asked in respect of the payment of benefits to 
Polish ex-servicemen living in Australia. In answer to an earlier question the Minister observed that the governments of the countries in which the respective ex-servicemen served held some responsibility for the payment of ex-service benefits to those people. Is it not a fact that Polish ex-servicemen and also, to a lesser extent and in smaller numbers, some other allied exservicemen living in Australia, such as the smaller numbers of Czechoslovak exservicemen, no longer have the type of relationship with the government of their home country which would lead to the government of their home country paying benefits to them? Is it not a fact also that the British Government has accepted responsibility for the payment of certain benefits to Polish ex-servicemen who are now living in Australia? As these Polish exservicemen, for the most part, have been living in Australia for some 3 decades now, during which time many of them have raised families and have worked in this community, does not Australia have some moral responsibility to provide benefits to these persons, most of whom are now Australian citizens, who served in the allied cause and whose case was under consideration by the Labor Government before its dismissal from office? 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs seen the latest annual report of the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Ltd which refers to the insurance business carried on by that Australian company in Rhodesia and to the company's offices in Salisbury and Bulawayo? Is this a breach of the United Nations sanctions against Rhodesia? If it is not, will the Government be prepared to provide guidelines as to what constitutes a breach of those sanctions? It would appear on the face of it that the carrying on of business by an Australian incorporated company in Rhodesia is departing from the decisions of the United Nations on this question. 
I wish to add a few words to what has been said by  Senator Knight  and my colleagues,  Senator Wriedt  and  Senator Douglas  McClelland, about the late  Mr Allan  Barnes. It came to me as a very great shock to learn that he had died. He was a friend of mine for some 10 years. In fact, I was speaking to him on the telephone only two or three weeks ago. Although I knew that he had been ill I had hoped- and I think a number of people had expected- that his health had somewhat improved. It came as a very great and sad surprise to discover that he had died. 
Although  Mr Barnes  was no longer actively working in the Parliament but was in fact the  Deputy  Editor of the  Age,  the Parliament has suffered a very great loss through his death. He was a journalist who did not resort to gossip and chit chat but who worked hard in obtaining facts. So far as I know, he never published stories about people without seeking verification from the people to whom his stories referred. He was not a gossip columnist. He was a person who had a serious approach to the political life of this country, who tried to report it accurately- I believe that he succeeded in doing that- and who tried to comment on it objectively. I do not think that means that he was a person without opinions or without any values. If one read his articles regularly one could see that he had quite a consistent set of ideas which he put forward. But he did not allow that to lead him to indulge in personalities or inaccuracies. He was a model journalist. There are very few indeed of his calibre. I think that his death is appropriately being recorded by the Senate because the country is a very much poorer place through his death. I believe that Australian democracy and the functioning of our democratic system has suffered a loss in  Mr Barnes'  death. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to her earlier answer to a question in which she said that the actions taken by the previous Labor Government whereby allegedly extravagant benefits were being paid to unemployment persons were taken by the Director-General of Social Services in accordance with the policy of the Labor Government. Is this not in fact an admission that the actions which the DirectorGeneral is now taking with regard to the payment of the unemployment benefit to school leavers are likewise being taken in accordance with the policy of this Government? I therefore put it to the Minister: Would it not be for the Government a more honourable course and a course which would deflect from the DirectorGeneral of Social Services criticism which should not be directed against him, if the Government were to be honest about this matter and say that the Director-General is carrying out government policy rather than that the Director-General is carrying out his own policy? 
I have great pleasure in seconding the motion moved by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack that the Senate take note of the report. In all modesty as a member of the Joint Committee on 
Foreign Affairs and Defence I feel that this is one of the most important reports on the question of foreign affairs that has been presented to the Parliament by this Committee. The report of the sub-committee was adopted without dissent by the full Joint Committee of the Parliament representing both Houses and all parties within the Parliament. I think it is interesting to note the composition of the sub-committee. It consisted of 4 members of the Australian Labor Party and 2 members of the National Country Party. I do not want that to be taken as some criticism of the Liberal Party, which is the major Government party in this Parliament, but as evidence of the fact that the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence has been an example of how members of this Parliament can work together sensibly and rationally to examine some of the problems that face this country. I think that the very fact that members of the Committee were happy with the composition of that nature shows the trust that has developed amongst members of the Committee in the objectivity of its members in bringing down reports, which was endorsed by the fact that the Committee as a whole adopted the report of the sub-committee. 
The reference to the sub-committee arose from the recent tragic events in the Lebanon. Anybody who reads the report- I trust that members of Parliament at least, if nobody else, will read the report- will see that a great deal of attention has been given to the problems of the Lebanon. The contribution that Australia can make to the solution of these problems is mainly by way of humanitarian aid, assistance with refugees, medical assistance and other matters of this kind. The fundamental political problem of the Middle East, however, remains the problem of the relationship between Israel and its neighbours. It is very easy for a number of vague, amiable people to slither into a soggy morass of humbug on the question of the relationship between Israel and its neighbours. One finds so many people saying that they think that Israel ought to be there but at the same time the Arabs have a case. 
The Arabs may well have a case that something should be done for the Palestinian refugees, for the Palestinian population which is scattered around the Middle East and those who were living on the west bank under military occupation by Israel. But the case which is presented by every one of the Arab countries without exception- not one of them has ever said anything to contradict this- and the case which is presented by the Palestine Liberation Organisation, which apparently is now accepted as the spokesman for the Palestinians, and most recently by the Palestine National Council, the socalled parliament of the Palestine Liberation Organisation, which I regret to say is recognised as a parliament by the Inter-Parliamentary Union, is that the state of Israel has to be destroyed. They have no hesitation about that. There is no question of adjusting boundaries or repatriation and compensation. They want the destruction of the state of Israel. 
The sub-committee and the Committee, and I hope all of the parties in this Parliament, have said that we will not tolerate the destruction of the state of Israel, that of course there will have to be adjustments of borders, that of course arrangements will have to be made for the wellbeing of the Palestinian people who, largely through no fault of their own, have suffered very great hardship as a result of the events that have taken place there. But whatever arrangement is made, it cannot be an arrangement which allows the destruction of the state of Israel. In the Press statement which was issued along with the report some reference is made to what the Committee believes on this matter, and that is that whilst we accept the concept that there should be a separate Palestinian state established, the Committee believes that Israel cannot be expected to allow a Palestinian homeland so close to the bulk of Israel's population until such time as the PLO accepts Israel's right to exist. So far it has not given any indication that it accepts Israel 's right to exist. Once the PLO accepts Israel's right to exist then of course there can be no argument against the establishment of the Palestinian homeland. But for as long as it says that this is only a transitory stage, only a step along the road to the destruction entirely of the state of Israel, it is quite reasonable for Israel- in fact it is the only sensible thing Israel can do- to reject such a proposition, and I believe that we have to support Israel in this matter. 
The position has been complicated just recently by the election in Israel of Menachem Begin as the Prime Minister of Israel, a man whose own record unfortunately does not compare with those of his predecessors. He is a man who was involved in terrorist activities. I do not think that one could describe them as anything else.  His  party is one which apparently is committed to the incorporation of the whole of the West Bank and a great many Arab territories within the state of Israel, something which I do not believe can be accepted. I think that  Mr Begin  and his Government will make it very difficult for a lot of people to support in detail the actions of the Government of Israel in the way that they have been able to support them in the past. I do not believe that this is a reason or can be a reason, however critical we may be of the foreign policies which  Mr Begin  may follow, for us to reject the fundamental proposition; that is, that we must support the existence of that state. 
The state of Israel was established after many years of great suffering by the Jewish people. I believe that down the centuries progressive people throughout the world, whether Jewish or non-Jewish, have supported the rights of the Jewish people to a national homeland. Let us look back to the early part of the nineteenth century to Lord Byron, a poet whose contribution to human emancipation, in the view of some critics, would be at least as great as that of some of the people who have described themselves recently as progressives and leftists and who apparently think that Israel ought to be destroyed. Byron wrote: 
The wild dove hath her nest The fox his cave Mankind their country Israel but the grave 
The Jewish people set out to establish their own homeland to ensure that they had not only the grave but also a home in which to live, in the same way as everybody else has a home in which to live. I believe that in doing so they were carrying out the aspirations of all humanity. If Israel is destroyed it will mean not only that there will be another holocaust, such as the extermination of Jews which occurred under the disgraceful Nazi regimes of the 1930s and the 1940s, but also that it will be a blow to all humanity, a disgrace to all of mankind. I believe that this Parliament must make it clear that Australia will do everything that it can conceivably do to see that such a tragedy is not repeated. 
-I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is lt a fact that members of the recent parliamentary delegation to the Middle East were each issued with 2 passports, one for use in Iraq, Syria, Jordan and Lebanon and the other for use in Israel? Is it a fact that separate passports were issued because of pressure that it was felt would be applied by the relevant Arab countries if it were known that members of the Australian delegation were travelling to Israel? If this is the case does it not indicate a servile piece of conduct by the Australian Government towards foreign powers? In future will the Government take steps to ensure that Australia's national sovereignty and dignity are maintained in such circumstances? 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. My question relates to the undertaking given by the Government after the summary dismissal from office of the previous Government that a national compensation scheme would be produced by the present Government. As it is now approaching two years since announcements of this kind were made and as I understand that there was to be a branch of the Department of Social Security inquiring into national compensation, I wonder whether the Minister could tell us how these investigations are going and how soon it will be before we can expect to see a draft of such proposals coming before this Parliament? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs propose to make a statement of the proceedings of the conference held this week in Lagos on apartheid in South Africa? 
-Apartheid or antiapartheid I appreciate  Senator Sheil's  sensitivity on this matter. Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs make a statement on the proceedings of the conference, the decisions made by the conference and the minimum requirements expected of South Africa in order that it can satisfy the participants in the conference? To what extent does the Government of Australia feel itself bound by any decisions taken by the conference? 
-My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and relates to the announcement of the Western Mining Corporation that it intends to dismiss some hundreds of its employees engaged in the mining of nickel at Kambalda in Western Australia. In view of the considerable distress that this will cause to the people of Kambalda and the Eastern Goldfields generally and in view of the fact that the Western Mining Corporation has given as its principal reason for laying off its employees the fact that there is some $45 m worth of unsold nickel and in view of the fact that obviously the demand for nickel will be found again at some time in the future, will the Government consider the buying of the unsold nickel for the purpose of future stockpiling? I understand this is a practice that has been followed in other countries where a similar situation has developed in the mining of ore such as nickel. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. He may remember that several weeks ago I asked him whether it was a fact that separate passports had been issued to members of an Australian parliamentary delegation visiting the Middle East- one to each of them for use in Israel and another for use on entering the Arab countries- and, if that was the case, why it was done. As I do not appear to have received an answer to this question, which the Minister told me he would obtain for me, I am wondering whether he could find out from the Minister for Foreign Affairs what is the position in regard to this subject. 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, refers to the recent attack on the military attache at the Indian High Commission. The Minister may remember that some months ago I asked a question relating to protection given to the Indian High Commissioner and his officers as a result of previous harassment of members of the Indian diplomatic staff in Canberra. What protection was given to officers of the Indian High Commission prior to the recent attack on the Indian military attache? What protection is now given? 
I do not think that anything could more clearly indicate the Government's lack of concern about the problem of unemployment in Australia than the opening half of  Senator Durack  's address to the Senate in which he did not attend in any manner whatsoever to the real problems of the economy but led us through one of those tired old tirades about the communists in the trade unions in Victoria. However important that may be, and I would not deny the importance of the present industrial disputes in Victoria, it is totally irrelevant to the endemic inflation and unemployment which Australia is suffering at present. It is of no use  Senator Durack  talking about what a terrible thing it is that is happening in Victoria at the bank bunding in Collins Street, or wherever else it may be. It is no use talking about that because the answer still is that  Senator Durack  is a member of the Federal Government and  Mr Hamer  and the Liberal Party are the Government in Victoria. If that is the problem, what do they propose to do about it? What are they doing about it? 
We have heard  Senator Sim  this afternoon again displaying this tendency which is possessed by members of the Liberal Party to fly in all directions with the old cliches of the 1950s that the strikes in Victoria are being led by the Moscow line communists. Does this refer to  Mr Norm  Gallagher, vice  chairman  of the MarxistLeninist Communist Party of Australia who would spend, I think, more time denouncing the revisionist, Zionist imperialists of the Soviet Union than he would denouncing the Master Builders' Association? Does it refer to  Mr Halfpenny  of the Communist Party of Australia, who is locked in bitter battles with the Soviet Union and its supporters in the Socialist Party of Australia? Not only is the Government not prepared to debate unemployment as the problem that it is; it is back in the days of Dulles and back in  Mr Bill  Wentworth 's better years telling us about the menace of the Soviet Union and how Russian spies have caused the strikes in Melbourne. I do not think that will impress the Australian people. I know it will not impress the Senate. The Australian people are concerned about the steadily increasing rate of unemployment within this country. It ought to be remembered that this Government was elected in the most extraordinary circumstances in 1975 on an undertaking that it would bring down inflation, reduce unemployment, stimulate business and get the economy going. The economy is certainly going. It is going right out of Australia up to Hong Kong. 
What has the Government done in that time? The rate of inflation for the year ending June 1977 was 13.4 per cent, compared with a rate of 12.3 per cent for the previous financial year. This Government has been in office for two years. In its second year in office it has been able to excel its efforts in its first year in office in regard to the rate of inflation. The Government says that it is fighting inflation in order to bring down the level of unemployment, but while the rate of inflation is going up what is happening to the level of unemployment? Despite the rather curious figures quoted by  Senator Durack,  which, as suggested by  Senator Button,  he should send back to his Department and have them redone, the level of unemployment in July of this year was 5.4 per cent- 20 per cent worse than it was in the same month in 1976. This is happening under the Government which is going to fight inflation and reduce unemployment. 
The Government is now claiming, of course, that the present situation is not its fault; that it was brought about by the Labor Government.  Senator Durack  was acting as if he were still fighting the 1955 election when he told us how wonderful things were back in 1952. 1 am afraid that that is not going to impress the Australian people. The further we get away from December 1975 the harder it will be to convince the Australian people that what is now happening is the result of anything that the Labor Government did. Indeed, if one examines what happened under the Labor Government and what is happening now one will find not only that there are an additional 87,000 unemployed people now than there were last year but also that, despite the fact that there was unemployment while the Labor Government was in office, as there was in all Western capitalist countries or Western countries with mixed economies, during the period of office of the Labor Government 275,000 jobs were created in Australia. From December 1972 to November 1975, 275,000 jobs were created. Not only has the unemployment rate increased under the present Government but also there are now 1 3,000 fewer people in work in Australia. In absolute figures- not in relative figures- 13,000 fewer people are now holding jobs in Australia, despite the increase that has occurred in the population since then, than there were when the Labor Government was put out of office in November 1975. 
The Australian Labor Party put forward proposals as recently as August this year in statements by  Mr Whitlam  and  Mr Hayden  on its behalf, about what the Labor Party believes ought be done. We said that two steps would have to be taken. The first involved attacking the present crisis. The second involved looking at the long term structural changes that are needed in the Australian economy. There are many sicknesses in the Australian economy at the present time that can be corrected only by a long term approach. As far as attacking the problem on a short term basis is concerned, we said that we ought to lower interest rates, that we ought to forgo any further increase in personal taxes, particularly for those in the lower income bracket who, when they receive the benefit of reduced taxation, tend to convert at a much higher rate the increased incomes they have received into the purchase of goods, which stimulates the economy, than an equivalent reduction in the rates of income tax imposed upon the people in the higher rate of income, and that we ought to defend the Australian currency against another devaluation. That is essential to fight both inflation and, in the long term, unemployment in Australia. So far we have heard nothing from the Government about what it proposes to do to protect the Australian dollar, other than a few partisan snipings at  Mr Hayden  because of the fact that he has drawn attention to the serious position in which the Australian dollar is at the present time. 
We intend over the long run to see that there is a general scheme of retraining of the work force in Australia, that there is a restructuring of manufacturing industry and that there is a reassessment of the whole problem of tariffs and protection of industry in Australia. They are long term projects. They are long term projects about which we have heard nothing useful from anybody speaking for the Government. What is probably even more important, at least for the time being because of the dire situation in which we find ourselves, is that we have heard nothing from the Government about what it intends to do in the short term. I do not believe that anybody can exaggerate the effects of unemployment. Of course the weakening of the currency of any country and the losing of faith in the monetary system of any country is serious to the morale of the country. It is obviously serious to the economy of the country. But nothing can be more destructive of the moral fibre of the country, of the standards of the country and of the peace, order and good government of the country than unemployment. Yet the unemployment rate is continuing to grow and there seems to be no sign whatsoever of abatement of that growth in unemployment which is taking place under the present Government, a government which has a casual attitude towards this very important subject. 
Of all those who are unemployed in Australia the young people are the ones who are worst hit. Young people, within the normal understanding of that expression, constitute 12 per cent of the work force but 40 per cent of the unemployed. I shall repeat that: The 12 per cent of the work force who comprise its youngest members constitute at the same time 40 per cent of the unemployed. 
Yes, teenagers alone. One in every five of the youth unemployed is a school leaver. Many of them are still looking for work eight months after leaving school. Particular localities are being affected. I think all of us will have heard of, if not remember, the terrible blighted areas that existed to some extent in this country and certainly in other parts of the world during the Great Depression. I instance the hunger march from Jarrow, for example, and the unemployment in the Ruhr which ultimately led to the dreadful convulsions which afflicted Germany. We are finding the same sort of thing developing in Australia itself. At Kwinana, which is a much vaunted area of industrial expansion in my own State of Western Australia, the unemployment rate at the present time stands at 13.2 per cent of the work force. The unemployed are very largely immigrants to this country. All of those figures and all of those facts show that, in the words of the motion which has been moved on behalf of the Labor Party, the Government disregards the increasing unemployment within this country. All the Government can do is talk about communists in trade unions in Victoria and what the Labor Government did or did not do. We want to know what the Government intends to do now and what is its approach to this subject, which is having a devastating effect upon our country. 
I think that something else ought to be said about what the Government is trying to do about the unemployment situation. Rumours are going about now that are causing much unease m all circles- particularly the business circles which are bothered about the economic future of this country- that the Government will be calling an early election and that it will be going to the polls in December of this year. I think everybody knows why the Government is talking about going to the polls this year. The Government has an overwhelming majority in both Houses of the Parliament. It was elected on an undertaking that it would stay in office for three years in order to carry out the policies that were so essential after the three years of office of the Labor Government that this Government did so much to disrupt. There is no constitutional pressure or other form of pressure that would stop the Government governing for another year, but it is talking about going to an early election and will not deny that. What is the only reason which could take the Government to an election? The only reason is an admission by the Government that both the unemployment situation and the inflation situation will be much worse next year than they are now. That is the only reason. There is not one other. 
-Senator Walters from Tasmania says that that is rot. I would like the honourable senator to tell us later if she gets the opportunity to do so- if the Government Whip has been sufficiently negligent to have put her on the speakers' list- why it is that the Government is talking about having an election this year, one year before its time, if it is not because of the Government's fear about the dreadful condition in which the economy will be next year. 
-The Government is talking about it; the Press is talking about it;  Mr Nixon  is talking about it and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is undertaking an election campaign. If  Senator Archer  is now going to give a categorical denial that there will be an election this year I would like to hear him do so. If he is not to do it, other members of the Liberal Party, seeing that they seem to be concerned at the suggestion that there should be an election this year, will have the opportunity in a few moments to stand up and give a categorical denial to scotch these malicious rumours. I am glad to see that  Senator Archer  at least, for one, has said that he is firmly opposed to an election this year and has said that he believes that only a slanderous person would make such a suggestion. I think he should be commended. 
I go on to say that despite  Senator Archer's  strong opposition to the holding of an election there are many people within the Liberal Party who are in favour of it. Certainly the Prime Minister is doing everything he can not to close his options, as it is termed. Why would he do that? For no other reason than the fear of the wrath of the Australian people if the Government waited to go to an election at the appropriate time. I know- there has been a hint of it today by  Senator Durack-  that an effort will be made to say that the Moscow-line communists, the Pekingline communists or some other people in Melbourne are an election issue. But I think the question still has to be asked: If they are an election issue, how does it come about? What is it that the Government could do after an election which it cannot do before an election? What powers is it lacking, with a majority in both Houses of the Federal Parliament, that it would have after an election? 
-Can the honourable senator leave his analysis until later? He can put it in writing perhaps, and then I will see whether I will read it. This Government is talking of an election. It is setting the stage for an election because of its admission of its total failure economically. That is the only reason, and I think the people of Australia recognise it. If the Government does scurry to the polls with perhaps the permission of the Governor-General, who may well feel that the best time for an election is always the time that suits the Liberal Party best, whoever is in government, I believe that the people will give the proper answer to it when it takes this reckless and unprincipled step. 
-My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, also relates to aircraft hijacking. When the Government is considering what actions it is going to take on this matter, will the possibility be considered of Australia refusing in any circumstances to accede to any demands made by hijackers, however painful that may be in any individual circumstance? It clearly would seem that any sign of what may be regarded as weakness in the face of hijackers only seems to prompt other hijackers to commit similar acts shortly thereafter. 
-Although I appreciate  Senator Hall's  keen albeit newly-found interest in the seat of Hawker he will excuse me if I do not address myself to that topic. I always enjoy listening to  Senator Hall  because I think he has something of a curiosity value in this Parliament. With so many members of the Liberal Party going in the opposite direction it is really surprising to find someone who has suddenly joined it. The matter to which I wish to address myself this evening is a matter which was raised in the Budget debate on 4 October last by  Senator Sheil  in which he discussed various questions concerning South Africa. It may seem curious to be speaking on this subject in a debate on the Oilseeds Levy Bill but as this seemed to be the most appropriate occasion to do so I hope that those who have as keen an interest in oilseeds as  Senator Hall  has in the seat of Hawker will not mind if I devote myself to what  Senator Sheil  has said. 
I feel it is obligatory for someone within the Labor Party to speak on the matters that  Senator Sheil  raised because the topic which he discussed is an important one and it would be very remiss, I think, of the Opposition if it were to appear that by silence the members of the Australian Labor Party acquiesced in what  Senator Sheil  had said. 
At the outset, it seems to me that there are two types of parliamentary debaters. There are those who can be most vindictive, vituperative and offensive about the most trivial, trifling and insignificant matters, and there are those who can be the most benign, kindly and dignified while putting forward the most outrageous and horrendous propositions.  Senator Shiel  falls into the latter category. 
During the course of his remarks on 4 October last in this place  Senator Shiel  debated the matter of the Republic of South Africa and referred to the position in Rhodesia or Zimbabwe and in Namibia or South West Africa. I intend to confine what I have to say to the matters raised relating to South Africa. I do this, not because I think that what is happening in Rhodesia or South West Africa is unimportant but because I think that any observer would agree that by now the die is cast. The present regimes in both of those countries are doomed. There will be a dramatic change. Whether it is for the better or the worse I concede is still open to some debate. But certainly there is little anybody here can do even if they wanted to do anything about either of those places. 
This does not apply to the situation in South Africa. Although the situation is far from encouraging to those who believe in human rights and the preservation of world peace, nonetheless there remains at least a chance that the people of South Africa, the white and non-white people together, may yet be able to resolve their differences. We all hope that South Africa may yet have a chance to change its present course and salvage from the system which is operating in that country at present something which would build a permanent- insofar as any human institutions are permanent- and just society. I do not wish to do  Senator Sheil  any injustice but I shall summarise as best I can the points he made. He put forward what can be described as the fairly orthodox statement of views which one receives from representatives of the South African Nationalist Party Government. I do not say this in any way as a reflection on  Senator Sheil  but I think that anybody who persistently reads South African Nationalist publications and reads the statements of the South African Government would already have been aware of what  Senator Sheil  had to tell us. There is  no  harm in telling a good story more than once. I have frequently done that. But if the story is not so good one ought to have a look at what is contained in it. 
The first point  Senator Sheil  made was a criticism of the United Nations. He said it was improper for the United Nations to intervene in the affairs of the Republic of South Africa in the guise that the situation in South Africa posed a threat to world peace. He said he did not believe that it posed a threat to world peace. 
-Senator Sheil does not do his own case any justice. If he were to look at the resolutions that have been carried by the United Nations he would see that the reason apartheid has been able to get on the agenda is that it has been held to be a threat to world peace. As I understand it, the reason the matter came before the United Nations - 
I do not want to debate the matter. If  Senator Sheil  now does not think that the United Nations said that South Africa is a threat to world peace that is entirely up to him. My understanding is that it has but this is not relevant to the matter we are talking about. 
I heard  Senator Sheil  in very great silence. I interjected only to correct him on a couple of factual errors in the course of hiss address. I expect the same courtesy from him.  Senator Sheil,  having made that point from which he now seems to resile - 
-He does not resile from it. Congratulations!  Senator Sheil  said that he believes that there should be a re-assessment of international opposition to the doctrine of apartheid. He said that this should be done because the goal of apartheid - 
-Yes, I do know what apartheid means. 
If  Senator Jessop  wants to have a debate in Afrikaans at any time I should be only too delighted to oblige. I shall give him a few quotations in that language later and see how he goes on them. I know that apartheid means separateness. It was a new word which was coined for the 1948 elections. It prompted Field Marshal Smuts, the very distinguished former Prime Minister of South 
Africa, to say during the course of the 1948 elections when  Dr Malan,  the ex-Nazi leader of the South African Nationalist Party, was using the expression apartheid: 'What kind of hate is this apartheid?' I think Field Marshal Smuts was at least as familiar with the Afrikaans language and South African history as  Senator Jessop  is. I shall return to what  Senator Sheil  said rather than  Senator Jessop,  whose contributions seem to be somewhat more muted and spasmodic on this topic.  Senator Sheil  told us that the goal of apartheid itself is self government; that this is something we should all applaud; that what distinguishes the policy of apartheid from other policies is that it is honest; that it arises because of the curious development of South Africa whereby a number of people of different races have come from different parts of the world and congregated within the same relatively small country; and that it arose out of the necessity of the situation to keep the various ethnic and cultural groups apart. He also said that South Africa had tried various other ways of governing its affairs, all of which had failed. Therefore, it found it necessary to turn to apartheid because of the failures of the other policies which it had applied. He said that it had tried them all- assimilation, integration, limited franchise and the destruction of the chieftain system- but none of them worked so apartheid was adopted.  Senator Sheil  said that the policy of creating separate homelands for the African population is a continuation of the old British policy- an enlightened policy apparently- of granting selfgovernment to indigenous people within their own territory. 
-That is what  Senator Sheil  said. If  Senator Jessop  does not like it he can take it up with  Senator Sheil  later. I am sorry to see that there is a disagreement between two people who generally would be united in their championing of the South African cause.  Senator Sheil  also said that under the policy of apartheid South Africa has prospered; that there has been no exodus of people from South Africa, which proves how satisfactory the system is and how everybody likes it. He said that everyone accepts the apartheid laws; that they are necessary because people of different races do not get on and they like to have things regulated in that way. He said that foreign visitors going to South Africa are carried away with enthusiasm for what they see. They are very impressed indeed. 
-I am quoting  Senator Sheil.  If  Senator Archer  had listened a huie more intently I think he would have been able to understand what I have been saying. 
-I do not follow the question but I do not think it is really worth following so I will not pursue the matter. 
-That would not be very difficult.  Senator Jessop  is hardly known in this chamber as the intellectual bloodhound. I am dealing with the points that  Senator Sheil  made one by one. The first one was whether South Africa is a threat to world peace. I do not want to start debating whether he said that or not. The Republic of South Africa remains a threat to world peace insofar as it is surrounded by countries which have black African populations that are not prepared to tolerate the continued suppression of people of their own race living only a few hundreds of miles away across the border. Whether they should be able to tolerate it or whether everyone says they should tolerate it, the fact remains that they are not prepared to tolerate it. They feel the same sort of sympathy for them - 
-I should have thought that  Senator Jessop  would appreciate that occasionally people want to bear arms on behalf of other people. I remember that  Senator Jessop  was anxious that people should bear arms in Vietnam. He was not anxious that he should go himself if I remember correctly but he was anxious that others should go. If  Senator Jessop  had such warm, fraternal feelings for the people of South Vietnam I do not see why he should be puzzled that people living in Zambia, Mozambique and Angola should feel exactly the same way towards their kinspeople across the border within the Republic of South Africa. 
We were also told that the goal of apartheid is self-government. The goal of apartheid is not self-government. What has happened in South Africa is that 13 per cent of the land in that country has been allocated to the African population. Thirteen per cent of that country, the poorest part of the country, has been given to the people who constitute 70 per cent of the population. They have been allocated 13 per cent of the country in which to settle. One should look at the doctrines of some of the pure ideologists of apartheid- the people who were responsible for preparing the Tomlinson Commission report and the various other things which were done in the early days of the Nationalist Government. There were these honest people whom  Senator Sheil  has spoken about, who did talk about total territorial apartheid- the division of the whole of South Africa on an equitable basis amongst the races so that they could all be allocated territories in which they could work. But, far from being honest, what is being done by the Government in South Africa is thoroughly dishonest. 
The South African Government has said that it is going to give to the African people, who constitute 70 per cent of the population, some 1 3 per cent of the area, which is to be split up into largely artificially constituted tribal and ethnic areas without any of the great wealth of the Reef- of the Witwatersrand- and of the docks of Durban, Port Elizabeth or Cape Town. The poorest part of the country is being allocated to them, while the overwhelming majority of the so-called citizens of the self-governing areas of Bantustans, such as the Transkei, are unable to earn a living within the Transkei. They have to work within the mines of Johannesburg and the Rand. They have to be separated from their families. They have to travel with passes in their own country. They have artificial citizenship in some country which they do not want and which the African people have rejected time and again whenever there has been any form of consultation with them. 
I am not talking about Tanzania or who has to carry a pass there. I am talking about South Africa. 
-No, it does not. 
It happens in Swaziland or Botswana! I must say that I find it very strange that members of the Liberal Party of Australia and the National Country Party of Australia are saying that it must be right because it happens in Tanzania. If it does happen in Tanzania it is deplorable and it should not happen there. But that is no excuse for its happening in South Africa. I think it is very revealing to hear from  Senator Sheil  and  Senator Jessop.  They are apparently in favour on racial grounds of the separation of families, of people having to carry passes, of people not being able to have their families living with them, of people having to produce their passes while they work miles away from where they are supposed to have their homes. 
I do not have to have one to travel throughout Australia. 
I am afraid that  Senator Sheil  is really very trying.  Senator Sheil  has told us about a number of most curious things. He told us, for example, that one of the reasons that South Africa has its present population structure is because the Voortrekkers left Cape Town in order to escape from the British and have their freedom. The primary freedom that they wanted was the freedom to keep slaves. 
-That was denied the last time. I refer  Senator Sheil  to any history book on South Africa. The reason why a minority of the Afrikaner farmers left the colony of the Cape of Good Hope in 1835 was because the British colonial regime had made it impossible for them, under the laws of the then British Empire, to hold slaves. They went to the Transvaal in order to keep those slaves. I do not want to deride their great national traditions or the sacrifices they made in moving there; but the freedom that they were fighting for was the freedom to deny another man his freedom. That was their freedom. That goes deep into the ideology of the Afrikaner nationalists of South Africa. 
I do not want to say any of these things in a way that appears insulting to the Afrikaners. Many great people have come from the Afrikaners. They have been responsible for great achievements, despite the oppression of the British Empire. They have been responsible for the great achievements of developing their own language, culture and literature and of maintaining their own identity. But within a very substantial section of the Afrikaner people and their ideology has been the concept that this is done because of some perverted Calvinist notion that they are God's ordained people. When they demand freedom for themselves and the rights to preserve their own culture they say that they are entitled to achieve this end by denying to other people who live within the Republic of South Africa the same rights that they want. That, I believe, is hypocrisy. That is what is deplorable about them. If I may say so on this whole question of apartheid, which  Senator Sheil  has said is so honest, the doctrine that they have now come up with is an afterthought. Under that doctrine people somehow or other are going to be separate but equal. There is to be a white parliament, an Indian parliament with some sort of nebulous powers, a coloured parliament, Bantustans and all these things. These propositions have been put forward only because of international pressure against the Government of South Africa and because of the resistance of its own non-white people. It has had to come up with some sort of theory to justify its doctrine of racism. 

 Senator Sheil, in order to explain how wonderfully every culture was dealt with in South Africa, gave us the pleasure of having had incorporated in  Hansard  the Lord's Prayer translated into various languages used in South Africa, including Afrikaans. I would like to quote another couple of lines in Afrikaans. I am sure  Senator Jessop  will correct my pronunciation. They were used by the Nationalists as slogans in the 1948 election, which was the time when the Nationalists were elected, and they are: 
Die Kaffir opsyplek En die koelie Ult die land. 
That means 'the Kaffir in his place and the coolie out of the country'. That was said by these honest, sincere people who want to have equality before the law, an equal homeland and equal rights for equal cultures. I repeat 'the Kaffir in his place and the coolie out of the country'. Those were the policies that the nationalists put forward. Only a few years ago- during the last decade- one distinguished nationalist,  Mr Robey  Leibbrandt, a former boxer who was arrested during the war when he landed in South Africa in order to work for the Nazis and was released after the war, sent a telegram to  Mrs Helen  Suzman, who as a guest of this Parliament and of both the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the previous Prime Minister, spoke at the parliamentary dinner which was given to her.  Mr Robey  Leibbrandt- speaking, I would imagine, on behalf of a great many South Africans- sent a telegram to her saying: 
Mordecai alias Karl Man, the father of modern communism, was a Jew. 
If one looks through any of the old Nationalist propaganda- if one looks at the material that was used in 1948 when the Nationalists were elected- one will see accusations that Smuts and Hofmeyr, his deputy leader, were secret Jews. Only today I happened to read - 
-I agree. I think it is a matter of which the Jewish people of South Africa ought to be very proud. Despite the fact that they have been a minority and nave been in a difficult position, there has not been any community amongst the whites who have offered more people and taken more risks in opposition to the South African apartheid regime than the members of its Jewish population of South Africa. 
-I do not know whether it has the third largest. It has a large Jewish population; that is right. On 24 September m the Johannesburg  Star,  which is a South African newspaper- Johannesburg is in South Africa, as  Senator Jessop  may know; I know he is an authority on the country but I do not know whether his knowledge is sufficiently deep to enable him to know that Johannesburg is in South Africa- in an article headed 'Greeks speak out on Kruger' it is reported that members of the Greek community in Johannesburg have protested against reported comments by the Minister for Justice,  Mr Kruger.  He is the man who has been making such a magnificent fist of the Steve Biko case. The same  Mr Kruger  has become so distinguished for his dealings with that case. He said in a conversation with Chief Buthelezi: 'It is like the Greeks in South Africa. I mean, they are here but they are really not. I mean, in all fairness to everybody, I don't think anybody here can really say that the Greeks and the Afrikaners are the same thing'. 
All right, or the English and the Afrikaners; but what is the meaning of a statement like that? That is a racist statement. It goes beyond even the question of black and white. 
-I hope that any members of the Greek community who would have heard of  Senator Jessop  would be aware that he thinks that that is quite a commendable thing to say. 'Afrikaner' means a South African, yet apparently  Senator Jessop  would think it quite appropriate for an Australian Minister to say: 'The Australians and the Greeks are different. The Greeks are here but they are not really here'. That apparently is a view which  Senator Jessop  finds quite palatable and worthy of encouragement. Since he has those views, I do not think it very surprising that he is enthusiastic about the Government of South Africa. 
If one looks through the whole record of South Africa while the South African Nationalists have been in government one finds the Group Areas Act, the Bantu Education Act, the Immorality Act, the Unlawful Organisations Act, the Suppression of Communism Act and the Terrorism Act- every one of those Acts directed either to further imposing racial discrimination on the people of that country or repressing those who set out to oppose it by means which in any democratic country would be regarded as lawful. Fortunately, amongst the white population of South Africa there is not the same unanimous support for the South African Nationalist Government as one finds in people like  Senator Sheil  and  Senator Jessop  and, if I can distinguish what  Senator Walters  is saying, in  Senator Walters  also. A new party has been formed in South Africa, with representation in the Parliament. I refer to the Progressive Federal Party. They have 18 members in the South African Parliament; they are a small party. 
-There is an election coming up amongst the whites. I would like to quote someone whom I am sure  Senator Sheil  would not like- Japie Basson, a very distinguished member of the South African House of Assembly, himself a former Nationalist, the son of a Nationalist senator, and the Opposition spokesman on foreign affairs in the South African Parliament. He said at the founding conference of the Progressive Federal Party, held last month in Johannesburg, that 'there was no greater priority in South Africa 's politics than the banishment of race and colour discrimination'. The report of his speech continued: 
It was not only the black and brown people who deserved to be liberated from the restrictions of the ruling political system, he said. 
Perhaps the white man is in greater need of liberation, in greater need to be freed from fear and liberated from the threat which race and colour discrimination is to our future safety. 
He needs to be liberated from the blot that race discrimination is on the name of our country, from the burden it is on our conscience and the curse it will be on our children. ' 
There was no greater priority in South Africa's politics than the banishment of race and colour discrimination,  Mr  Basson  said. 
That was said by a white man, a man who would be conservative in his economic views, a man who has been elected by white electors to the South African Parliament. 
I find it deplorable that, when we have white South Africans who are prepared to stand up within their own country, with all the risks that they suffer- people who are democrats, not revolutionaries, not looking for violent overthrow of the government, not like  Mr Vorster,  the idol of some of my colleagues on the Government benches who was interned during the war because of his membership of a Nazi organisation, the Ossewa Brandwag, which I am sure  Senator Jessop  would be able to translate as 'the Sentinels of the Ox Wagon'- we have people here who denigrate them. I find it deplorable that, when there are white people within South Africa, people with Nationalist backgrounds, with Afrikaner backgrounds, who are prepared to stand up and be counted in their opposition to this inhuman system, we find people sitting here in the safety of Australia who are prepared to denigrate them and to support the repression of a government composed largely of ex-Nazis, and certainly composed of Nazi sympathisers. 
The only few words I would say in closing are these: I do not believe it is going to be sufficient for Australia merely to be passing resolutions saying: 'We deplore apartheid'. It is vital for the whole world that there not be an armed conflagration with South Africa. It is vital that there should be a reasonable settlement of the disputes within that country. We have to make it clear, I believe, that while on the one hand we support the human rights of all South African citizens, we are not lending our name merely to some propositions being put forward that there ought suddenly to be a violent, bloody overthrow within that country, that there be armed intervention. 
What we ought to be doing, I believe, is to make it clear that, provided we can see substantial changes coming about- and even within the Nationalist Party there are changes coming about, not the phoney stuff that  Senator Sheil  has been talking about, not that sort of honesty, but a real honesty- even if they are somewhat gradual, to elevate the position of the non-white people, we will encourage those white South Africans, because white South Africa does have the strength and the power to lock South Africa in a bloodbath for many years, if there is any form of armed uprising there. We should give encouragement to those people to bring about those changes. That is important to us and to the whole of our world.  Senator Sheil  did say one thing that was correct- that South Africa is a microcosm of the rest of the world. If the rest of the world is to be conducted in the way in which South Africa is being conducted, if it finishes with the ultimate catastrophe which South Africa is surely going to finish up with unless the present policies are fairly quickly radically changed, great suffering will be created not only for the South African people but for all of us. 

 -Mr President - 
I wish to speak briefly on one aspect of the report which has been tabled this afternoon by  Senator Baume,  that is the part of the report which relates to the use of cannabis. I do not wish to repeat the arguments which were used six years ago in this chamber when an earlier report of a Senate select committee was presented to the Senate but it is my opinion that the considerations which led me to produce a dissenting report on that occasion are still valid. I feel that there is a problem relating to the use of cannabis which, despite the valiant efforts of the Committee which has today presented its report, still remains unclarified and a problem to haunt society. 
I do not think that one needs to be in any way sympathetic with the use of cannabis, or an advocate of its use, to be of the opinion that the continuation of the existing penal provisions against the use and dissemination of cannabis, in particular marihuana, is not satisfactory and that it is causing even greater problems than those who wish to see the possession and sale of marihuana made illegal are trying to do away with. That is no more the case than the opinion that because one may disapprove of the excessive use of alcohol and cigarettes made of tobacco, as indeed the Committee itself has shown, one is therefore, in favour of the reintroduction of prohibition of alcohol or the introduction of prohibition of tobacco. I think the experience of the period of prohibition in the United States between 1 92 1 and 1 933 showed clearly that if there is public demand for a drug, and if there is acceptance amongst a substantial group of citizens that it is acceptable to use that drug, any penal provisions are bound to end in failure. Not only will they fail to prevent that drug being used, they will also cause all sorts of other problems in the wake of the controversy and difficulties which will arise from the prohibition. 
A few years ago a former United States Attorney for the northern district of California wrote a book entitled 'Marihuana- The New Prohibition'. He dealt with this problem in some detail and produced a very convincing analysis of certain parallels between the prohibition of alcohol which existed in the 1920s and early 1930s and the present prohibition of the use of marihuana. One of the points he made which attracts me as having a certain logic is that one has to look beyond the mere proscription of the use of a certain drug to certain social prejudices which are involved in that prohibition. The point which he made with regard to the prohibition of alcohol was not so much that it was a campaign against the use of alcohol but that it was also a campaign by the white Protestant majority of Americans who, traditionally, having had a Calvinist or non-conformist background, were opposed to the use of alcohol. Indeed, there are still many areas in the United States- the socalled bible belt; large areas of the Mid-West and the South- where very little alcohol is consumed right up to the present day. In fact, those people were engaging in a campaign against the life- styles of the more recent immigrants- the southern Europeans, the eastern Europeans, the Irish Catholics, the Jews, the Latin Americans and various others- who had as part of their culture the use of alcohol. 
It is interesting to note when looking back at that period that organisations like the Ku Klux Klan were among the strongest in support of prohibition. If one reads some of the campaign material that was distributed by the opponents of Alfred E. Smith when he stood as the Democratic candidate for the Presidency in 1928- the first Catholic candidate of a major party- particularly the material distributed through the South, which, for the first time since the Civil War was not carried by a Democratic candidate, one will see a strange mixture of accusations made against Governor Smith. It was alleged that he wanted to have black people eating in public dining rooms and generally engaging in the most heterodox sort of behaviour. Amongst the allegations that were levelled against Smith was the allegation that Smith, as a Catholic, was the sort of person who would favour the occasional drink and who would open the floodgates to alcohol in the United States. 
The former United States Attorney, whose name was Kaplan, made a similar point with regard to the prohibition of marihuana in the 1960s, that is, that it was a campaign mainly by older, more settled and conservative people against a lifestyle, again to a certain extent that of ethnic minorities, particularly among the socalled Chicanoes- the immigrants from Mexico and other Latin countries, who have taken marihuana traditionally as part of their culture in the same way as people in other parts of the world were smoking tobacco- and also against the young people who had taken up marihuana in the 1950s and 1960s. 
I will come to that later. I cannot talk about two things simultaneously. The question of whether it does is not the point that I am making at the present time. Alcohol damages the health. The point that the United States Attorney made was that the damage which was caused to the health was, if it were a motivation, not the primary motivation of those who favoured prohibition in the 1920s and 1930s, in the same way as the question of whether marihuana is damaging to the health was not a primary motivation in the 1960s and 1970s among a number of those people who were in favour of heavy penalties or penalties for the use of marihuana. Many of the people who advocate banning the use of marihuana, as I think  Senator Baume  pointed out during the course of his speech when tendering the report, are well aware of the severe damage which is done to the health by the use of alcohol. Nonetheless they would not be in favour of the banning of alcohol. Here one has two drugs, both of which are dangerous in various degrees to one's health, yet one is the subject of a campaign calling for its banning and the other is not. That was the point that the United State Attorney was making. 
What we do have in Australia- it is a fairly new phenomenon that exists throughout many Western countries at the present time- is a large number of people who are using marihuana. To come back to  Senator Wright's  point, there is dispute as to how much damage marihuana does to one 's health. I think it is beyond dispute that it does cause some damage. I think it is beyond dispute that the use of marihuana does have an effect upon the judgment of people in certain situations in which they ought to have their wits about them. I do not think there is any doubt about that. In fact,  Dr Cheshire  of the Department of Pharmacology at the University of Sydney, who as been one of the most consistent advocates of a change in the laws relating to marihuana, has made the point much more clearly than any of the advocates of the banning of marihuana that the use of marihuana can seriously affect the judgment of the driver of a motor vehicle, possibly just as seriously as the abuse of alcohol. 
I do not know whether it is more so but it certainly will have an effect. I think it is difficult to quantify these matters. I do not know how one compares the consumption of six double Scotches with the smoking of six joints. The fact of the matter is that it is conceded that both of them would have an effect on one's facility to drive a motor vehicle. Therefore it would be perfectly reasonable for anybody to argue that penalties ought to be imposed on people who drive motor vehicles while under the influence of marihuana. I think that most of the relevant laws within the States- the various traffic Acts- make provision in this regard. Certainly in Western Australia- I think it is the same in the other States- the charge that is usually referred to as drunken driving is generally embraced within a section of the relevant Act that refers to being in charge of a motor vehicle while under the influence of drink or drugs. No new legislation is needed to provide for such a situation because the existing law already covers it. If someone were driving a motor vehicle while under the influence of marihuana it would seem to me that any reasonable reading of the existing law, as I understand it, would cover such a person in any case without there being a separate series of laws relating to penalties for the possession of marihuana. 
I think the major problem with regard to marihuana is that if free commercial distribution of marihuana were allowed we would find the same sort of advertising campaigns taking place for marihuana as take place at present in the cases of alcohol and cigarettes. I do not think that there could be any doubt that the consumption of both alcohol and tobacco would be significantly less than it is at present if it were not for the fact that people are being induced by all sorts of advertisements to partake of them. I do not think that the absence of advertising would stop their use altogether. I understand that in the Soviet Union there is no advertising of alcohol or tobacco, yet both are used fairly extensively. I think it obviously requires little argument to make the point that the advertising must add to the consumption. If this were not the case, clearly there would be no point in the manufacturers of these products advertising them. The very fact that they are advertised would seem to be evidence that the advertising does have some effect on the consumption. 
Six years ago-in 1971- in a dissenting report that I presented to the Senate I suggested that the possession of marihuana should not be an offence. I would distinguish- if I may interrupt myself-between marihuana and hashish. Both of them are products from the cannabis satival plant, but marihuana, as  Senator Baume  so eruditely informed us earlier this afternoon, is the dried leaf of the cannabis plant, whereas hashish is made from the resin of the cannabis plant. Clearly the strength of hashish is considerably greater than that of marihuana. There are some considerations which apply to that which do not apply to marihuana. To return to my recommendation, it was to the effect that the possession of marihuana, unless the purpose of that possession was to engage in the sale of marihuana for commercial purposes, should not be an offence; that it should be an offence for any individual to engage in the sale and distribution of marihuana; that there should be no advertising of marihuana; that marihuana should be marketed by some appropriate State agency in premises specifically licensed for that purpose; and that the marihuana industry, if that is what it would become, should not be conducted on a profit-making basis and if there were profits to be made from it such profits should be used on research into the use and abuse of drugs, particularly marihuana itself. 
I do not want to labour all of those points, but I do not think there can be any doubt that the prosecutions that have taken place of people in possession of marihuana have caused, among a number of people, a disrespect for the law. This is a situation in which a number of peoplemainly young; but, as it is now some years since marihuana came into vogue, I suppose that some of them would be youngish or early middleaged do believe that in this instance the law is an ass. We do not need to have too many people thinking that in one particular instance the law is an ass before many people start thinking that in a number of other instances the law must also be an ass. I think that the legal campaigns, the penal campaigns, that have been carried on against marihuana have been damaging to the much more worthwhile, desirable and necessary campaigns against hard drugs such as heroin. Yet one finds that the same people say that marihuana is a dangerous evil and that heroin is a dangerous evil. People try marihuana and find that not very much happens and they believe that if they were wrong about marihuana they are just as likely to be wrong about heroin. That brings into disrespect the whole official attitude of society to the use of drugs many of which- the so-called hard drugs- are clearly dangerous. I do not believe that any argument is necessary to establish that they are dangerous. 
Another by-product of the illegality of marihuana is that the same sort of people are engaged in the trade in marihuana as are engaged in the trade in the hard drugs. As I understand it, if one is looking for marihuana or for heroin, it is very likely to be the same person to whom one would go to get either. If one continues to move in that milieu, if one continues to buy one form of illegal drug from a particular person, it is not to be wondered at if one moves on to another form of drug, a harder drug, because of the circumstances in which one is constantly moving and the persons with whom one is constantly coming into contact. Although there is no evidence in pharmacological or psychological terms that one drug leads to another- and that people who start on marihuana work their way up to heroin that was shown by the evidence presented to the Committee on which I served and I imagine that the same evidence was presented to this Committee, as it has been to other inquiries- I believe that in the present legal situation that is an argument which does have some validity. People do start off on marihuana and work their way up to heroin because of the circumstances in which they acquire their marihuana and because of the circumstances in which they smoke their marihuana. 
I beg the honourable senator's pardon. 
If  Senator Walters  wants to interject she will have to be quicker than that. We like nice snappy interjections in the Senate. 'Oh!' is not good enough. The point I am making is that the very surroundings in which marihuana is purveyed are surroundings which encourage people to move on to harder drugs and into other forms of illegality. 
To come to the positive recommendations made by the majority of the Committee, I do not think it is satisfactory to say that there will be a reduction in the penalties for the possession of marihuana for one's own use if the same or, as the Committee has recommended, increased penalties remain for pedlars of marihuana. That seems to me to be a logical inconsistency. If we are to say that it is not too bad for somebody to have marihuana, then I do not see how it can be said that it is bad for somebody to provide marihuana to that person. Clearly, it would be nonsense, for example, to say that it is all right to drink alcohol and there is nothing particularly wrong with carrying around a bottle of beer or a flask of whisky for oneself but it is an offence to provide the person who likes the beer or whisky with his beer or whisky. 
-What is inconsistent? 
-No, I do not think I am being inconsistent. I do not think that on the one hand we can allow a trade in marihuana to take place, which is what is implied by the very possession of marihuana- there has to be a trade for people to be in possession of marihuana- and at the same time say that we are trying to prevent that trade by continuing the penalties on those who provide the marihuana unless we provide an alternative source of marihuana. I may say in all modesty that, if we were carrying out the suggestion I made that there ought to be an ap- propriate governmental agency providing mari- h uana, then I think it is quite reasonable to say that anybody who outside that ambit does provide marihuana is committing an offence. It does seem to be illogical to say that the possession of marihuana is itself not an offence but the provision of marihuana to those people who are then in possession of it is an offence. 
However, I think the Committee has made a major contribution in once again drawing attention to these problems, and particularly to the problems resulting from the existing laws relating to marihuana. I do not think there is any doubt that the tendency is in the direction of a more liberal and open attitude on this question. In the United States, which in many ways has been the pathfinder, both in the use of marihuana and the banning of marihuana and in turn in the relaxation of the laws with regard to marihuana, in a great many States already there has been considerable relaxation. 
I am sorry to hear that. But whether South Dakota has just come back again or not, the fact remains that over the last 10 years there has been a tendency in the United States towards a relaxation of the laws relating to marihuana. 
It is a question of  Senator Walter's  judgment and mine, and my information is that that is the tendency. I suggest that if she compared the laws in the United States now with those of 10 years ago in relation to the use of marihuana she would find them considerably more liberal now than they were 10 years ago, whatever may be the position in South Dakota, on which I am afraid I am not presently well advised. 
-South Dakota is not in the bible belt, as it happens. It is a very fine State. It sent  Senator McGovern  to the Senate and is a State for which I have the greatest respect. I am sorry to hear that it has rejoined  Senator Walters.  The very fact that attention has been drawn to these matters by the Senate Committee is valuable, but I do not believe that we are going to overcome the problem, which is a very substantial social problem. We do have bigger social problems than this one, but it is still substantial. 
To return to the point I was making earlier, I venture to suggest that one of the reasons why we are finding an increase in the use of hard drugs in Australia, why in a city such as Perth, from which I come, there is now a fairly significant heroin problem where only five or 10 years ago there was no heroin problem at all, is very largely the illegal ambience in which the present use and sale of marihuana are conducted. In order to eliminate this very small hazard- I admit that it is a hazard- from our national life we are contributing to the growth of another much more serious and much more dangerous hazard to our community. This is one of those occasions on which a liberal attitude, I believe, will have the effect of reducing the abuse of drugs rather than of increasing it. Although I commend the Committee's report, I believe, as I have for many years since I first was obliged to study the subject, that we will have a very long way to go before we can establish a sensible attitude towards a question that is of importance to this country, as it is to most other Western countries of a similar civilisation to our own. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs seen reports of a statement issued by an organisation which apparently has an office in Melbourne, which is known as the Arab Information Bureau and which is publishing a black-list of Australian companies engaged in trade with Israel and of certain Australian individuals including myself, if I may have the pride to say so? I ask: What is the Arab Information Bureau? Does it have any standing within this country? Is it supported with funds or otherwise by any foreign governments? Are any of the people who work within the Arab Information Bureau citizens of another country? Indeed, are any of them in Australia on diplomatic passports? What are the consequences of being placed on such a black-list? And what is the Government doing to protect those Australian companies whose overseas trade could be damaged by the actions of this organisation in placing them on a black list because of their activities in legitimately trading with a country with which Australia has friendly relations? 
It would be tempting to devote the half hour that one has to address the Senate tonight on the Address-in-Reply to having some fun at the expense of  Senator Lajovic.  I think that there are more important ways in which one can spend that short span that is allocated to us but I think it would be quite remiss of me not to comment on some of the matters that he raised, in however cursory a manner. I can well understand that the honourable senator was distressed by what was said to him the other night but I must confess that to hear a member of the Liberal Party complaining about false accusations made against members of one political party by members of another political party is a most disarming experience. As one who for years has been subjected to accusations of being either a Russian spy or a Chinese spy and sometimes simultaneously both, I find it very difficult to take seriously the statements of members of the Liberal Party that they are so sensitive to these accusations. 
In case any honourable senator is under the misapprehension that because  Senator Lajovic  happens to come from Europe he knows anything about European history, there are one or two small points that I would like to clear up before I go on to more important matters. Having objected so strenuously to accusations that members of the Liberal Party could be fascists he promptly turned around and said that members of the Labor Party were communists and that the guiding star of the Australian Labor Party was Stalin. This statement comes from a man who does not like to hear false accusations made in the Parliament but is perfectly happy to accuse members of the Australian Labor Party of being friends of the communists, if not communists themselves, and supporters of Stalin. He then, in making a most extraordinary alleged quotation from Stalin, said that Stalin had claimed at some stage that social democrats and communists were brothers. 
What a remarkable rewriting of the history of the 1920s, the 1930s, the 1940s and the 1950s. Anybody who is aware of the history of that period would know that Stalin's slogan was: Scratch a social democrat and find a social fascist'. It was Stalin who organised the campaign by the German Communist Party in collusion with the German Nazi Party to bring down the social democratic government in Prussia in 1931. There was no more committed enemy of the social democrats and of the principles for which the Australian Labor Party stands than was Stalin himself. Indeed, the only reference that I can remember about brothers- and it was certainly not the remark that  Senator Lajovic,  this latter-day Haldane, attributed to Stalin, that social democrats and communists are twin brothers- is the exchange that once took place between Otto Grotewohl. the leader of the socalled Socialist Unity Party, the communist party of East Germany and Kurt Schumacher, the great socialist social democratic leader in West Germany. Grotewohl said to Schumacher: Communists and Social Democrats are really brothers', to which Schumacher replied: 'Yes, like Cain and Abel'.  Senator Lajovic,  in bleating about his misfortune in being accused of being a fascist and going on to accuse the Australian Labor Party of being communist, shows not only his hypocrisy in relation to these questions but also his ignorance of history. 
I must be what? 
-Then I invite you to look at  Hansard  before it is corrected. 
-You said Stalin said it. It was not Stalin; it was George Lukacs? The honourable senator says that George Lukacs has quoted Stalin. I would like him to show me the quotation. But if he did say that he certainly contradicted himself both in words and in practice. I find it very strange to hear somebody, who objects to personal abuse and who objects to attributing to people ideologies other than those which they claim to hold, doing the same thing himself at a time when he is supposed to be exposing the evil which has been done him. 
To return to what  Senator Lajovic  was saying about  Senator James  McClelland,  Senator Lajovic  apparently is of the opinion that  Senator James  McClelland was inciting urban guerillas by his reference to the Governor-General. I have never been aware of  Senator James  McClelland 's having any affinity with the Baader-Meinhof gang or other guerilla groups. In fact I would have thought that  Senator James  McClelland, as other members of the Australian Labor Party have done, was exposing the fact that through the actions of Kerr while he was the Governor-General of Australia the whole democratic constitutional parliamentary system was brought into contempt amongst a great many Australian people. Whether  Senator Lajovic  likes it or not, the fact is that whenever this is done, whenever you find a substantial body of people who do not believe that the democratic system is fair and just but that they are living under an un-democratic system, you find that they do turn to violence. If we ever find substantial urban guerilla activity within Australia, the man whose name should stand at the head of the list of responsibility for that sad state of affairs will be Kerr, the man who is now looking after our educational, scientific and cultural affairs in Paris. 
I do not want to dwell on  Senator Lajovic  and I do not want to dwell on Kerr. The sooner he vacates his present occupation and retires into oblivion, the better it will be for the Australian people and certainly the better it will be for Paris. What I would like to talk about, however, is a matter which received very cursory attention indeed in the Governor-General's Speech; that is, the question of international affairs. I invite honourable senators to look at the GovernorGeneral's Speech where they will find a few bromides and a few platitudes about Australia's friendly relations with the United States of America and about how the Commonwealth of Nations is going from strength to strength. But there is no theme, no policy about what Australia proposes to do in the future about the very many serious problems that confront this country as they confront all other countries at the present time in the field of international relations. 
I think one of the most important events which has taken place over recent years, however little it may so far have accomplished, has been the statement by the  President  of the United States of America shortly after his election that in future the United States Administration would not look merely at the national interests of the United States of America in assessing its relations with foreign countries but would also look at the human rights of citizens within foreign countries. It would look at not only those countries with which in the past it was unfriendly- countries such as the Soviet Union or China- but also countries with which the United States had had friendly relations, countries such as Argentina and Uraguay. There is no doubt that however difficult it may have been and however little may appear to have been accomplished, the very fact that the  President  of the most powerful country in the world once again drew attention to the lack of human rights in so many countries and said that the foreign policy of such a mighty country would have as its objective achieving human rights for people in a number of different countries is a significant change from what we have been used to in the recent history of the world. 
It is not so long ago, only a decade or two, that the 'Free World' was the expression used by the United States and the supporters of the United States. John Foster Dulles, that powerful figure in the formulation of American foreign policy and for so many years Secretary of State in the United States Administration, when asked to define what he meant by the 'free world' said he meant those countries which were free from Soviet domination and undue Soviet influence. That was all that was meant by being free. It did not matter how dictatorial it was inside a country, whether it be the Greek colonels, Park in South Korea, whether it was South Africa or the dictatorship in Bolivia, so long as the country was free from Soviet influence it was part of the free world. It has to be said of  President  Carter that he has dropped this sort of terminology. However little may have been accomplished he has turned the clock back in a desirable way, back to an era when leading statesmen in Western countries were concerned about the human rights of people in the most scattered parts of the globe. 
One can recollect that in the nineteenth century Gladstone, the British. Prime Minister for so many years and one of the most powerful figures in Britain in the nineteenth century, was able to devote a large part of his time and writing to the exposure of the persecution of Bulgarian Christians. One of the ingredients making up the formulation of British foreign policy, not only under Gladstone but even earlier under the more conservative Palmerston, was directed to the achievement of or the endeavour to achieve human rights for people, for victims of the slave trade, people suffering under the Ottoman Empire and the Russian Czarist empire. When one compares this with the situation which prevailed, at least until  President  Carter achieved office, when national leaders felt that however much suffering took place in other countries it was no concern of their governments, that the only concern of their governments was to look after their own citizens and what they regarded as being the national interests of their countries, this is certainly a considerable step forward. 
As I understand it, in the past members of the present Government, the Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock),  have said that they support this policy and the extension of human rights throughout the world. What did they have to say about it in the Governor-General's Speech, a speech written for him by the present Government? Not one word whatsoever. Once again, as throughout the 1 950s and the 1 960s we find Australia taking a more conservative, reactionary and unproductive position on human values than that of the United States, even in that country's most conservative era under the Eisenhower Administration. 
I repeat, not one word was said on human rights in the Governor-General 's Speech. 
There was no mention of the situation in East Timor. If anything, it shows the real position and the hypocrisy of the present Government. One should compare the position it adopted towards the Baltic States and the position it adopted over East Timor. On the one hand it said that it was quite improper to recognise de jure the incorporation of the Baltic States within the Soviet Union because they had been acquired by force; there was no act of self determination by the people of Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia; they had been incorporated into the Soviet Union against their will. It was said that this was wrong, that it was something that ought to be remedied and this Government would revoke the previous Government's recognition of that incorporation. 
Hard on the heels of that statement came another statement, that the Government recognised the incorporation of East Timor into Indonesia, an incorporation which took place in precisely the same way as the Soviet Union's incorporation of Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia into the Soviet Union. It was by force, without an act of self determination and against the will of the people who lived there. If it is argued, as someone may well argue, that the Australian Labor Party while in office recognised the incorporation of the Baltic States into the Soviet Union, I wish to make my own position clear,  Mr President.  That is that I do not approve of the action that was taken then. I do not believe that a majority of members of the Australian Labor Party approve of the action that was taken then. It was not in the policy of the Australian Labor Party. I hope that any future Australian Labor Party Government would see that no such de jure recognition of the incorporation of the Baltic States into the Soviet Union would continue under an Australian Labor Party Government. Certainly I was not consulted and I do not think any of my colleagues were consulted about it. 

 -As Senator Devitt has reminded us I was a Minister at the time and when it came before the Senate I made my views on the matter quite clear. I am not speaking solely for myself. I believe I am speaking for a clear majority of my colleagues and a clear majority of members and supporters of the ALP. To make some debating point about what the Australian Labor Party did or did not do is quite irrelevant to what this Government has done. This Government has adopted a posture of principle with regard to Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia, countries at the other end of the world where Australia has virtually no influence whatsoever; but it has adopted a quite different position with regard to East Timor, which is right on the very borders of Australia, nearer to Western Australia than is Canberra. At the same time it has shrouded itself in a mist of humbug about its dedication to fine principles which are occasionally adumbrated for us, in however garbled a manner, by  Senator Lajovic. 
-There has been no de jure recognition of East Timor. 
If I may say so, with the greatest respect to  Senator Baume,  I do not believe that in the case of East Timor the distinction between de jure and de facto recognition is a relevant distinction because once we have given de facto recognition to the incorporation of East Timor into Indonesia, by so doing, ipso facto, no longer are we continuing any son of campaign for an act of self determination. It is a sign that we no longer oppose its incorporation. Apart from a few bits of legal verbiage- I think this is one occasion when one can talk about legal verbiage as not having any substance- what is the difference between the Australian Government 's saying it gives de facto recognition or de jure recognition to the incorporation of East Timor into Indonesia? I do not see it, at all. 
I fear that one of the besetting sins of the present Government is its inability independently to hold a foreign policy. That was its problem during the 1950s and the 1960s when Australia followed in the wake of the United States of America; when we had a Prime Minister who said that his motto was 'All the way with LBJ'; when we had governments which did not step out of line with the United States of America except on those rare occasions when they could find someone farther to the right than the United States. This occurred at the time of the Suez crisis. That was the only time they disagreed with the United States of America, then the United States took a sensible position on the withdrawal of Anglo-French forces and Australia took a position which seemed to suggest that Eisenhower was an undercover communist. Apart from that occasion when they disagreed with the United States from the right they did not vary from the policy of the United States in any significant way whatsoever. Throughout the world national liberation movements have suddenly become respectable. For a mixture of reasons, including, I think it is fair to say, the genuine humanitarian convictions of people such as  Mr Young,  the present United States Ambassador to the United Nations and probably  Mr Carter  and  Mr Mondale,  the United States feels sympathy for the various national liberation movements in Africa- a sympathy which I do not doubt is accentuated by the fact that those people know that there is a 20 per cent non-white electorate inside the United States of America which would also have some views on this subject. 
-That is right. The United States of America has now taken a position in which it is certainly in opposition to if not in confrontation with the present regimes in Rhodesia or Zimbabwe and the Republic of 
South Africa. I shall speak briefly about both of those countries. I believe that through not having our own policy but merely going along with a trend we could find ourselves in a very difficult position. The whole world could be in a very difficult position. These are situations to which the Australian Government could make some contribution in helping to find a settlement. For example, at present two sets of negotiations are taking place concerning Rhodesia. There are the so-called internal settlement negotiations between the illegal Smith regime, which clearly represents the overwhelming majority of the white inhabitants of Rhodesia and certain Rhodesian African national organisations which in the past, at any rate, appeared to have the allegiance of a fairly substantial number of Rhodesian Africans. Other meetings are taking place at which the United States and Britain appear to be taking the leading role as the foreign powers- this is not an occasion when the Soviet Union, China, Cuba or other forces are involved- that are pressing for the so-called external settlement with the Patriotic Front in Rhodesia. 
I do not have the slightest idea- I do not think anybody else has- what is the Australian Government's position on these matters. What does it say? Rhodesia is a country on which we could exert some influence. Some of the leading white people in Rhodesia are themselves of Australian origin.  Colonel Knox,  Air Vice-Marshal Hawkins and  Mr O'Donnell,  who is or was the Secretary of the Rhodesian Department of External Affairs, are all former Australians. Some of them are still travelling on Australian passports. What does the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  have to say about that? What does the Government say about it? Do we believe that there is some possibility of an internal settlement by Smith's negotiations with the people who are prepared to negotiate with him or does the Australian Government say that they are quite useless and agree with the position taken by  Dr Owen  and  Mr Young  that a 24 per cent representation for whites in the Rhodesian Parliament is too high? I do not know. I do not think anybody else knows. 
This situation could cause untold bloodshed but not one word have we heard from the Government about what is its policy, what representations it has made or what it has said to the British, the Americans, the white Rhodesians or any of the conflicting African forces. If we are to avoid a bloodbath in Africa we will have to talk about settlements. Countries such as Australia which are geographically closer than the United States and which have a historical association with many of the white South Africans and the white Rhodesians ought to be playing a part in the settlement of these disputes. 
Recently the Minister for Foreign Affairs attended an anti-apartheid conference at Lagos in Nigeria. A statement was issued at it condemning apartheid. I certainly would not disagree with that. I do not think any member of the Australian Labor Party would disagree with a resolution condemning apartheid. But, having condemned apartheid, what do we do? What happens? Having condemned it do we then say that that is all we need to do and that that is the end of the matter? Is it to be like saying one's prayers at night? I apologise to those who believe that that does make some difference. Is voting for a motion moved by somebody at Lagos merely some form of incantation? Should we simply hope that all sorts of good things will follow from it or should we do something about it? 
I may digress from the views of some of my colleagues on this matter, but I believe that talking about military confrontation- with or without the assistance of the Cubans, Russians or Chinese- with the present Government of the Republic of South Africa is asking for a massive bloodbath which will not only bring about the extermination of the whites in South Africa, which may or may not matter, but also bring about at the very least the decimation of the black African population at the same time. Over four million white people live in South Africa. They are a very significant part of the population. They are technologically highly advanced, particularly in the field of military technology. They have a divided non-white population against them. I know the South African Government likes to exaggerate but without any exaggeration there are very great differences between the Indian minority, the coloured minority and the African majority and within the African majority itself. Despite the exaggerations- I am not relying on handouts from the South African Embassy in saying thisthere are real differences, political and ethnic within the African population. They are not in a position to rebel and take military action against the South African Government with its highly sophisticated weaponry, administration and armed forces. 
Carrying resolutions in Lagos calling for the end to apartheid and taking no position whatsoever on the Soviet and Cuban presence in Africa is once again merely striking a posture instead of having a policy. What do we say are the minimum requirements which the South African 
Government would need to fulfil before we would be prepared to regard it as acceptable in any way? I have heard nothing from the Australian Government as to what it believes to be a minimum requirement of the South African Government before we would be prepared to say that it is making progress towards the elimination of apartheid and adverse racial discrimination. 
It is interesting that some people try to avert the legitimate criticisms which are being made of South Africa by saying that people who are prepared to criticise South Africa are not criticising torture in Haiti, the Central African Empire or some other place. As the  Rand Daily Mail,  which is one of the leading South African newspapers, said a month or so ago in a leading article, the difference is that whatever divisions there may be between the other nations of the world all the nations of the world have united in condemning racialism. They may not have united in condemning other forms of oppression but they have united in condemning racialism. I believe that this is quite proper. I believe that they should have done so. But merely to condemn racialism is not sufficient in seeking a solution to the problems of South Africa. 
There are some hopeful signs within South Africa. In the elections held in South Africa in 1974, which were elections in which only whites were able to vote, the Progressive Party- a party which may be a capitalist party and which may have all sorts of planks in its platform with which I would not agree but which is certainly a party that is committed to racial equality within South Africa and an equal voice for all citizens in the government of South Africa- won seven seats, having won only one seat in the previous elections when  Mrs Suzman,  who for many years was its only member, was re-elected. In the most recent elections held in South Africa, despite the fact that the National Party gained an overwhelming majority in the South African House of Assembly, the Progressive Federal Party, which is a new party that is committed to the same basic policies as the older Progressive Party, achieved the election of 17 members. I know that this is a small number of members in a House with 165 members. It is even smaller than the Labor Opposition in the Australian Parliament. I agree that it is small, but the very fact that one is able to find amongst white South Africans enough voters in 1 7 electorates to give a majority to people who are openly committed to racial equality shows that there is a substantial number of white people within South Africa who do believe in racial equality. 
What are we saying to those people? What are we saying to those people who voted for the National Party or who support the National Party in South Africa because they believe that the only way in which they can influence South African policies is to belong to the Party which appears clearly to have the majority support of the white population permanently? What are we saying to these people? What are the minimum requirements which we accept that they must meet? 
I suggest that by merely carrying motions condemning apartheid but not exercising any good offices whatsoever with any of the African national organisations, without applying to the white population of South Africa any pressure directed towards any particular goal, the Government is being shockingly derelict in its duty. Having once mouthed sentiments of sympathy for white South Africans, it is now mouthing platitudinous generalities of condemnation; but there is the same total lack of policy in both. South Africa is an area which, if it becomes convulsed in violence, could involve the whole world. It is an area which is close to Australia. It is an area on which Australia could have influence. It is an area about which this Government has said nothing of any use whatsoever. This inactivity typifies the whole of this Government's approach to foreign policy and it typifies the Governor-General's Speech. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs and relates to statements which were reported to have been made over the weekend by  Mr Peacock  concerning the socalled internal settlement which has been agreed upon by the Government of  Mr Ian  Smith and various nationalist forces in Rhodesia or Zimbabwe. I ask: Has the Government yet considered the nature of the so-called internal settlement and adopted any policy relating to the desirability or otherwise of this internal settlement? Will the Minister not agree that in view of the fact that Australia already has taken a strong position on the present situation in Zimbabwe or Rhodesia, as is evidenced by its accession to the United Nations decision to apply sanctions to Rhodesia, it is necessary that Australia should adopt its own policy and make its own determination on whether the so-called internal settlement is desirable or otherwise and should not wait to find out what somebody else thinks about it before we say what we think about it? 
As one honourable senator who was critical of the previous Crimes (Foreign Incursions and Recruitment) Bill which came before the Senate last year I agree with honourable senators who have already spoken that the present Bill is a substantial improvement on the earlier Bill. Not only that, I go so far as to say that, acknowledging that there is a necessity for regulating the sort of conduct which is dealt with in the Bill, those who drafted the Bill have done as good a job as one could reasonably expect anybody to do in view of the very complex circumstances which surround the matters which are dealt with. 
I certainly concur with  Senator Missen  that the manner in which this matter has been handled by the Senate as a whole- I think the present Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  deserves some credit for that- in agreeing to refer this vexed matter to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs and the manner in which the Committee dealt with the matter, are in the rather better traditions of the Senate 's conduct of its business. There was a sensible approach by all parties- I do not mean political parties but by all honourable senators who showed some interest in this matter. 
The Bill, as it stands, does not deal with all of the matters which presently concern people throughout the world with regard to foreign incursions by armed forces or individuals from one country to another, but it certainly does deal with some very important aspects of that problem. The most significant difference between this Bill and the previous Bill is the definition of government' which is defined as one which is recognised by Australia as being the de jure government of the country. This does remove ambiguities and difficulties which faced all of us in contemplating the previous Bill although, as I intended to point out in a few moments, it nonetheless still retains some apparent paradoxes. 
The Bill provides that it is a serious offence, one carrying a penalty of 14 years imprisonment, for any Australian citizen to enter another country in order to engage in armed, violent activity that is directed against the government of that country; or, indeed, if he is already within that country, to engage in violent activity against it. Various definitions are given as to what would, or could, constitute warlike activities against the government in question. Clause 7 provides similarly for a prohibition of the preparation, training or organisation of armed forces to engage in this sort of violent and warlike activity against the government of another country. There is also, in clause 9, a penalty for the recruitment of persons to engage in such activity. That clause goes further and prohibits recruitment for any armed forces- not only forces which would be engaged in opposing the government of the foreign country, but also those which would be operating for any purpose within that country. It is to be an offence to recruit within Australia such foreign armed forces, but it is not to be an offence for an Australian to serve within them. 
There are certain situations which have arisen in the not so distant history, and could arise again in the future, which could I suppose present in the minds of some people, an anomalous situation. For instance, in the Spanish Civil War- and this is not something to which I would object- it would not have been an offence for an Australian to have served in the armed forces of the then Spanish Republican Government. It would have been an offence to have served in the armed forces of General Franco's Falangist rebels. At the same time, it would have been an offence, in Germany or Italy, to have served in an insurgency against the governments of Hitler or Mussolini, which were supporting the Franco rebels in Spain. 
It would be an offence for Australians to engage in or organise campaigns of liberationhowever one may care to term them, depending on one's own predilections- on behalf of Ukrainians within the Soviet Union, Croatians within Yugoslavia or Africans within the Republic of South Africa. All armed interventions by Australians against any government which we recognise would be prohibited, but I believe this is one of those occasions when one has to look at the whole issue of international relations. This is, in many respects, a matter not only of domestic but also of foreign policy. However much one may deplore the government of one country and applaud the opposition, or insurgents, in another, these are not the kinds of matters that can be legislated. I think all honourable senators would concede that it would be desirable that the amount of violence taking place in the world, especially the intervention of nationals of one country in the internal affairs of the nationals of another, should be limited. This Bill endeavours to do that, at least, insofar as it can with regard to Australian citizens. 
The question of the need to obtain the consent of the Attorney-General for a prosecution still arises under the proposed Bill, and I suppose that the same difficulties that arose previously could arise in this case. As  Senator Button  said earlier, the Opposition does not propose to move any amendment but for myself, I would like to hear the Attorney-General perhaps expand a little on the necessity to seek the consent of the AttorneyGeneral before a prosecution may be launched. It seems to me that the offences which are set out in the relevant clauses of this Bill are of such a nature that if a prima facie case could be made out that they have been committed, a prosecution should follow, as happens with the commission of most other offences against the Crimes Act. 
I would only remark in concluding that admirable as I believe the general intention and details of this Bill to be, we are still in a situation in the world where not every country is adopting the principles that we are applying here. If ever a matter ought to be one for international convention, agreement for treaty, it is this question of the foreign incursion of nationals of one country into that of other nationals. During the past decade we have seen forces with whom we have been allied make incursions into the internal affairs of other countries in various parts of Asia. At present we are seeing incursions by Cuban and Soviet troops into the internal affairs of various African countries- incursions of such a nature as would, I think, arouse a great deal of uproar if they were to be committed by, for example, the United States of America. 
We cannot deal with that in this Bill but I do think- and this is the problem not of the Attorney-General but of whoever happens at the time to be in government- that we ought to be pressing for international conventions on this matter and striving, however difficult it may be, for possibly a decision of the United Nations whereby it will be an offence against international law, not merely domestic law, for incursions of this kind to be mounted. I appreciate all the difficulties of enforcing a convention of this kind, or indeed of obtaining agreement on it, but this should be our next objective in the struggle against international violence. I commend the Government for taking what I believe is at least a step in that direction- a quite important step as far as the activities of Australian citizens are concerned. 
What has been said in the Committee is true. But I put it to the Committee that we are trying to limit the number of occasions on which incursions- or whatever word one may care to use- take place. I do not think anybody could suggest that all matters will be covered. My own view is that what  Senator Grimes  has posited would be the case. We do not recognise that there is a de jure government at present in Latvia, Lithuania or Estonia. Consequently, it would be lawful for an Australian to take part on either side if there were an armed conflict there. 
-My understanding of the present position is that it would be. One would be legally entitled as an Australian to take part in hostile activity against the Soviet Government on the soil of Latvia, Lithuania or Estonia or to take part in warlike activity on behalf of the Soviet Government in Latvia, Lithuania or Estonia. Likewise, one could take part in hostile activity against the Government of Indonesia within what was formerly Portuguese Timor but not within the previously held Netherlands territory in Timor. 
This is possibly unsatisfactory but the number of countries to which Australia gives only de facto recognition is very small. Rhodesia is one of them. I return to the point raised earlier by  Senator Wright  with regard to Rhodesia. As no de jure government is recognised in Rhodesia,  Senator Wright  would be able to enlist in the armed forces of the Smith Government in Salisbury and serve in the ranks for the duration of whatever conflict might take place.  Senator Missen  would be able to enlist in the armed forces of their opponents. If they were to confront each other across the trenches at least they would have the consolation of knowing that neither of them was breaking any Australian law. 
I do not really have a great desire to become one of the advocates for the Government. However, I do not think that the matters raised by  Senator Wright  really relate to what is the fundamental problem that this Bill, as I understand it, is trying to correct. I do not think there has been a major problem- if there has been it has not been drawn to my attention- of Australians volunteering for the armies of foreign powers and taking part in the invasions of other countries. Nor have I heard of a problem of nationals of other countries volunteering to join the army of another foreign country and serving in that country's army. Complaints that have been made about the Cuban and the Soviet forces in Africa have not been that people have been enlisting in the army of Ethopia and have served in the Ethopian army against Somalia, but that they have been serving, in whatever capacity, as members of the Soviet or Cuban armed forces. This is not, as I understand it, what the Bill is dealing with. The Bill deals with a problem with which we have been afflicted during the last few years; the problem of terrorist activities on behalf of organisations which are not governments of any country, even though some of them claim to be. Such organisations include the Irish Republican Army, the Palestinian Liberation Organisation, the BaderMeinhof gang and the Ustasha. Some of these organisations purport to be left wing and others right wing and they may be receiving some clandestine assistance from a foreign power but they are not the armed forces of a foreign power. Also, the people who have been carrying out hijacks, to which  Senator Wright  so eloquently referred, are not members of armed forces. They are members of various organisations dedicated, for various reasons, to activities of this kind in order to further ends which, if they are the objectives of some other power, are only indirectly the objectives of some other power. What we are dealing with now is the new phenomenon of the IRA, the PLO, the Bader-Meinhof and the Ustasha. Indeed, it would be true to say that we could have the situation of an Australian volunteering for the Cuban Army, the Ethiopian Army or a force like that. Such a situation would not be covered by this legislation- I think the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  would have to admit that that is so. But I do not think that that is what this Bill is trying to cover. What we are trying to cover in this Bill are terrorist organisations and not the constituted armed forces of governments to which Australia grants de jure recognition. 
I again wish to intrude. If I may say so, although I agree with what  Senator Missen  is trying to convey, I do not think that his example of the United Nations has solved the problem that was raised by  Senator Wright. Senator Wright  is referring to the proclamation by the Government giving permission to a foreign country to engage in recruiting troops from within Australia to serve in its armed forces. Although one could call it an international force, in fact the Australians who served in Korea in the United Nations forces served as members of the Australian Army. They were not recruited by any of the other member countries of the United Nations who were serving. They were not recruited to serve in the American Army or the Turkish Army. They were serving in the Australian Armed Forces. I can well imagine that this could happen on occasions. If, for example, a friendly country which Australia regarded as a democracy was in serious difficulties- had been invaded by another country- and we believed it was to our advantage strategically as well as morally to support it, I imagine that although we were not in a position to send our own forces there we would allow recruitment in Australia. 
For example, I imagine that in 1939 the Australian Government may have decided that it was quite proper for the French Army or the Polish Army to recruit Australians to serve in their forces, just as the Americans served in the British and French forces in the First World War and in the Second World War until the United States of America entered the war. It does not seem to me that one would need to have too fanciful an imagination to picture situations like that. The United States Government took no action against those Americans who volunteered to serve in the British Forces in 1939, 1940 and 1941, and a similar situation could arise in our case where we could say we were giving moral support to some other country. We could say that we would not be sending forces ourselves but we believed it was an important conflict and we would be giving some economic assistance and would allow the Government of the threatened country to advertise for recruits in Australia. 
My only objection to the Bill, insofar as I have any objection, arises from clause 10. 1 have the reservation that the area being dealt with by the Bill is a very sensitive one and, for that reason, this Bill ought to be removed as far as possible from political decisions by an AttorneyGeneral. One can imagine the disorder and dissatisfaction that would occur if, for example, one individual made an incursion into Yugoslavia in accordance with the provisions specified in the earlier clauses of the Bill, another person made an incursion into South Africa and, on facts that appeared to be near enough to be identical in each case, the man who made the incursion into South Africa was not prosecuted because of the withholding of a certificate by the AttorneyGeneral but the man who entered Yugoslavia was prosecuted, or vice versa. I suggest to the Attorney-General that even if the facts were not identical, even if they were fairly substantially different, if it appeared that certificates were being issued in the case of an incursion into one country within the meaning of the Act but were not being issued in the case of an incursion into another country, considerable disquiet about political interference with the administration of justice could result. When the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  replies to the debate on this clause, could he be somewhat specific as to the sorts of matters he would bear in mind when granting or withholding a certificate? I suggest to him that serious problems could occur through this discretion being left in the hands of the Executive, although at the same time it is not apparent to me what problems would arise if the Executive discretion were not available to the Attorney-General . 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It relates to the activities of our Ambassador to the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation but it does not concern the particular matters which have been capturing the attention of the Senate over recent days. It refers to reports which have apparently been given to the International Press Institute congress which has taken place in Canberra, to the effect that UNESCO has been adopting decisions which impose a form of censorship on the movement of information through the Press in various countries, and that certain guidelines should be laid down as to what is desirable news and what is undesirable news. I appreciate that the Minister would not have the information at his fingertips but would he be prepared to make inquiries from the Minister for Foreign Affairs as to what is the current position regarding these very serious decisions which have allegedly been taken by the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation? What attitude did the Australian delegation adopt when these matters were being discussed? What is our attitude now? What do we propose to do about them in the future? 
I direct to the Minister for Social Security a question which I ask every six months or so. I was reminded yesterday by the presence in the gallery of the  Deputy  Prime Minister of New Zealand of the fact that  Sir Owen  Woodhouse sits on the bench of the New Zealand Court of Appeal. What is the current state of play with the proposed national compensation scheme which the Government proposed to introduce some  2Vi  years ago? Is there still a unit within the Department of Social Security studying this matter? If so, what is it doing and when can we expect to hear from it? 
-My question, which 1 direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, relates to the death sentence which has been imposed on  Mr Bhutto,  the former Prime Minister of Pakistan. Has any appeal for clemency been made to the Pakistan Government of behalf of  Mr Bhutto  by the Australian Government and, if this has not been done, will the Government consider doing so? In making this request I am suggesting not that the Government should appear to be unduly interfering in the internal affairs of another country or reflecting on the administration of justice in that country, nor that former Prime Ministers should have some preferential treatment, but that the Government should point out that the execution of a former head of government by a government composed of his political opponents would have at least the appearance of being a somewhat barbarous act which would make it rather difficult in future to conduct civilised relations with the Government of Pakistan. 
I understand that as  Senator Sim  is the first  speaker  in this debate he is speaking for the 
Government on the question of Timor. I must confess that I found it a little difficult to follow what precisely was the point that he was trying to make to us this afternoon. On the one hand he said that one should not approach these questions of international policy on the basis of idealism, as he put it, and that morality should not be a factor in determining them. 
Never mind about the Baltic States.  Senator Sim  said that one should not approach these questions on the basis of morality. But having told us that we do not need to be moral about these questions, he then informed us that, unlike  Senator Gietzelt  who is a Marxist, he is a humanitarian and that for humanitarian reasons he has adopted the policy which the Government has now adopted. I wish that we had a logical analyst among us here today who could try to disentangle from what  Senator Sim  has been saying what it is that he means. Is the Government's policy based on moral grounds or is it not based on moral grounds? I think it would have been much more profitable if  Senator Sim,  speaking on behalf of the Government, had debated the issue before us, the matter of public importance raised by  Senator Wriedt  regarding the Government's recognition of Indonesian sovereignty in East Timor, rather than devote his time to discussing what he alleges is  Senator Gietzelt  's political ideology. 
In the circumstances in which this quite unnecessary declaration was made by the Australian Government it was just as important for it to declare that it recognises de facto incorporation of East Timor into Indonesia as it would be for it to recognise de jure incorporation of East Timor into Indonesia. What did it mean when the Government said that it recognised de facto incorporation? It meant that no longer would there be any opposition of any serious, worthwhile or bothersome nature to the Indonesians by the Australian Government against the violent, aggressive, bloodthirsty actions which they took against the people of East Timor. That is the significance of it. The action of recognition was completely unnecessary. We must be one of the few countries in the world which has made such a declaration. The UK Government, for example, and the United States of America Government have not found it necessary to make any statement to the effect that they give de facto recognition to the incorporation of East Timor into Indonesia. Indeed, when  Senator Sim  misled us by saying that the countries of South East Asia agree with us on this matter-I think he mentioned countries in the Third World- surely he was forgetting, if indeed he ever knew, the fact that at the last meeting of the non-aligned countries in Colombo for the first time - 
-Senator Sim introduced these countries into the debate. It is no use him laughing at them and mocking them. He was the one who introduced them into the matter by saying that they did not oppose the Indonesian take-over of East Timor. For the first time in the history of the congress of non-aligned countries, at the most recent meeting, held in Colombo, a member nation of the non-aligned countries, namely Indonesia, was condemned by its fellow non-aligned countries. 
-Countries such as India, for example, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka. The honourable senator knows which are the nonaligned countries. It was  Senator Sim  who introduced them into this debate. It is no use  Senator Sim  asking who they are and suggesting that they do not count when he was the very one who alleged in his argument that they supported what was done and that everybody around the place was prepared to recognise the Indonesian aggression in East Timor. 
You may correct me later but not now.  Senator Sim  also said- I am glad he drew our attention to this matter- that nothing had been said about what the Ethiopians were doing in Somalia. It is precisely because the Australian Labor Party is concerned about the sort of thing which is at present happening in Africa, because of what appears to be aggression being undertaken by Ethiopia against Somalia, that we have raised this matter here today. It is our clear view that unless we are going to be consistent and to say that there shall be no forceable incorporation of any people into another country against the will of the people who are incorporated, we will be in an absolutely impossible position when this happens in the future. If we are going to say that it does not matter about Timor, how can we say at some time in the future that it does matter in Somalia? How can we say to the people of the Cook Islands and the New Hebrides-they were mentioned by somebody earlier- the Solomon Islands and the people of New Caledonia- some of whom have obtained their independence and some of whom are working towards obtaining independence- that if any aggressive neighbour such as Indonesia attacks them ruthlessly, bloodthirstily as in the case of East Timor, then idealism and morality, as  Senator Sim  said, do not count. Is that the position that Australia is going to take? Members of the Liberal Party are so free in their accusations about double standards against the United Nations. If as  Senator Sim  said, morality does not count, what have they to complain about with regard to the United Nations or anybody else adopting double standards? 

 -If Senator Sim says he did not make any reference to morality I advise him to inspect the pink copies of his speech today, not the corrected edition which presumably will appear later in  Hansard.  He said it perfectly clearly. He said that idealism and morality might be wonderful things but they do not count in these circumstances. 
-Of course they count in these circumstances. Idealism and morality do count in these circumstances and they count to the Baltic States. 
I am completely consistent on both matters and  Senator Sim  is completely inconsistent. He is very moral and selfrighteous about the Baltic States but when it comes to the question of Timor idealism and morality do not count, he tells us. I am completely consistent and would be prepared to put my record up on any of these issues alongside that of anybody else. But  Senator Sim  is here today as the spokesman of the Government and he said that morality and idealism count when Latvia is involved but they do not count when East Timor is involved. That is the position he has put to us today. 
On many occasions, quite rightly, strong views have been expressed in this Parliament and throughout Australia on aggression undertaken by powerful countries against their small neighbours, such as the Soviet aggression against Czechoslovakia and Hungary, where only a few hundred people were killed. I object to it. I objected to it when it was done and continued to object to it ever since. But the fact of the matter is that even if the minimal estimate of  Senator Wriedt  is correct and 70,000 people have been killed in East Timor by the Indonesian militarists, if that figure is divided by ten and only 7,000 were killed in East Timor that is more than have been killed in all of the Eastern European countries in any confrontation with the Soviet Union since the end of the Second World War. But we never stop hearing about that, and rightly so. I am not complaining about that. We should hear about it. It is immoral and wrong. We hear constantly from members of the Parties opposite about action undertaken by the Soviet Union against Hungary, Czechoslovakia, Poland and so on, but if one-tenth of the minimal estimate of the number of people killed in East Timor were accepted as the correct figure it would ten times outnumber the number killed in any Eastern European country. 
If we cannot exercise influence on Indonesia there is no country in the world on which we can exercise influence. It is a country which receives aid from us, including military aid. If we are not able to say to the Government of Indonesia that we take a strong position on acts of aggression which it has undertaken there is nowhere in the world where we will be able to speak with any credibility. Once the Tories of this country always used to do whatever the British Government wanted them to do. Then the policy changed and they would do whatever the United States of America Government wanted them to do. The position that they have reached now is that they will do what anybody wants them to do provided that those people have a bit of muscle. It is a question of going with the strength wherever the strength is, drifting with every tide, being wafted by every gentle zephyr that blows. 
That is the position of this Government. If one were to look at this document that was produced by the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting one would find example after example of it there. For instance, on the Pacific, the Commonwealth Heads of Government- and apparently  Mr Fraser  went along with this - stated that they:   . . recognised the importance of the newlyindependent island states and welcomed the movement towards independence of several countries in that area. 
How does that relate to the independence of the people of East Timor? When they come to the question of the Indian Ocean the Commonwealth Heads of Government communique stated that they: 
. expressed the earnest hope that practical steps would be taken for the implementation ofthe Declaration of the Indian Ocean as a Zone of Peace, and other subsequent related Resolutions adopted by the United Nations General Assembly. 

 Senator Sim laughs and jeers at the United Nations, but apparently his own Prime Minister was not laughing and jeering when he put his signature to the declaration of this conference, of which he was  chairman,  calling for the implementation of the United Nations resolutions. When one comes to the question of Southern Africa one finds a most remarkable statement by this Government. After all,  Mr Fraser  was the  chairman  of the conference. In regard' to Rhodesia, or Zimbabwe, as  Mr Fraser  with his new-found enthusiasm for the anticolonial movements would now call it, it is stated that any solution from which the Patriotic Front was excluded would be unacceptable to the international community. I wonder what  Senator Wright  thinks about that. 
-Senator Wright does not think very much about it at all, it now emerges. In  fact,  he is not at all impressed but that is a statement by his Government. Why did his Government make that statement? Not because it had embraced the militant Left. It was because it had not embraced anything other than the policy of going with the strength, of going to water whenever there was a bit of pressure.  Senator Sim  had the audacity to ask  Senator Gietzelt  what complaints he had made about the Chinese generals. I would like in return to ask  Senator Sim  what complaints  Mr Fraser  and  Mr Peacock  made about the Chinese generals when they were in China? I cannot recollect any of them making any complaints about Chinese generals. In fact, they talked about the very special relationships- warm, close, friendly relationshipsthat they had with the People's Republic of China. 
That is the trouble with this Government. It wants to have warm, close, friendly relationships with all nations wherever they are and whatever they do, provided they have a bit of muscle. But if it is a place such as East Timor, where there are a small number of people, some one-tenth of whom have been massacred then, as  Senator Sim  so succinctly put it, idealism and morality do not count. Again I turn to this communique, which I am sure  Senator Wright  has read. He is interested in these matters and I am glad to see him in the chamber. The communique of the Commonwealth Heads of Government Conference of which  Mr Fraser  was  chairman,  and a document to which he was a signatory, deals with the question of the Middle East. It states that the Conference: 
. reaffirmed the necessity of urgently moving towards a just settlement of the problem on the basis of the relevant resolutions of the United Nations General Assembly and Security  Council and  the recognition of the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people. 
That is all. That is the statement made by the Government of Australia. There was no reference to the right to exist of Israel. Certainly I would not be prepared to sign a document which said that, but apparently  Senator Wright  would support it, as would his Government. I have not heard any criticisms from him or from  Senator Sim  of  Mr Fraser  for putting his signature to that outrageous statement. Why did the Government do it? Was it because it was a supporter of the Palestine Liberation Organisation? No. I would respect it more if it were, if it were made because the Government supported that organisation. It was made because the Government did not want to rock the boat. They did not want to get into an argument. They do not want to argue with the Americans. They do not want to argue with the Russians. They do not want to argue with the Indonesians. They do not want to argue with the non-aligned bloc. That is the position to which Australian foreign policy has been reduced. 
At least in the old days of  Sir Robert  Menzies or  Mr Holt  one knew were one was. It was 'All the way with LBJ', and provided one could find out what LBJ's policy was one knew what Australia's policy was. Now we do not. It depends which Foreign Minister from which powerful country our Foreign Minister or Prime Minister last met. That is our foreign policy. That is what is bringing Australia into disrepute. This country has a chance. We are not a colonial power. We had a small colony in Papua-New Guinea from which we withdrew I think with dignity and without any opprobium on behalf of the indigenous people; but we have thrown all that away on the altar of sycophancy and hypocrisy, and by relying on doctrines such as that put forward this afternoon by  Senator Sim-  that morality does not count. Our view is that morality does count, and that is why we have raised this matter of public importance this afternoon. 
-My question, which is directed to the Attorney-General, arises from information that has been provided to me by what could be described as 'a usually reliable source'. The information is to the effect that the Government is keeping records of all overseas telephone calls to and from Australia and copies of all cables to and from Australia for the purpose of obtaining information which may be relevant to the improper activities of certain persons in regard to currency speculation and breaches of the exchange control regulations. I understand also from the information that was given to me that there is a further proviso that none of the information so obtained shall be used without the permission of the AttorneyGeneral. I would point out that this question does not relate to security within the normal sense of the word, but to other matters. I ask the Attorney-General whether the information which has been given to me is correct. 
-The AttorneyGeneral may remember that last week I asked him whether it was a fact that the Government was recording overseas telephone calls and monitoring overseas cables. Has he yet been able to find out whether the matter which was reported to me was correctly reported and whether in fact such activities are taking place? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Minister may remember that on 22 February I asked him a question relating to the status of the so-called Arab Information Bureau and the consequence of individuals being placed on what is described as the black-list of that bureau. On 4 April I asked him whether the Government had considered making a plea for clemency on behalf of the former Prime Minister of Pakistan who is at present under sentence of death. Since well over two months have passed since the first question was asked and nearly one month has passed since the second question was asked, I wonder whether the Minister could ask whoever writes the answers to these questions whether we are likely to receive an answer to the first question before the end of this sessional period and whether we are likely to receive an answer to the second question before the proposed date of  Mr Bhutto  's execution. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the fact that increasing difficulties appear to be occurring in Rhodesia, or Zimbabwe, particularly as a result of the present dispute between Bishop Muzorewa and his colleagues in the interim government, and also in view of the fact that Cuban forces, according to reports, apparently are preparing to intervene inside Zimbabwe, will the Minister ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether, before the sessional period finishes, a statement could be delivered to the Parliament as to the Government's position on the resolution of this question? I might point out to the Minister that the Government appears to be delightfully vague as to whether it supports or opposes the internal settlement. It is a question which is of great importance to Australia. It is a question in relation to which Australia can bring about some influence. It would seem to be unfortunate if Australia intended not to have any policy whatsoever but merely to rely on the effluxion of events around it before it was dragged into adopting a position. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I understand that he has been approached by  Mr Alfred  Bussel of Busselton, who is visiting Canberra on behalf of various constituents who are shared by  Senator Withers  and me, in regard to the problems relating to the destruction of the jetty at Busselton by the recent cyclone. It was put to me by  Mr Bussel  that the jetty was necessary in Busselton as it was the only place in the district where one was able to escape from both the flies and the stingers; if you were on land you were attacked by the flies and if you were in the water you were attacked by the stingers, whereas if you were on the jetty you managed to avoid both. 
-Yes, that is so. As I understand it from  Mr Bussel-  I believe he has put this matter to the Minister- approaches were made by him to the Premier of Western Australia who has informed him that repairs will be made to this jetty, which for a long time has been a landmark or seamark and essential to the tourism of Busselton, only if the Commonwealth Government gives some financial assistance to Western Australia. Can the Minister inform the Senate what action he has taken on this matter and what the Government proposes to do? 
I move: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert 'these Bills be withdrawn until such time as an alternative form of tax on capital is introduced'. 
These Bills properly are being taken together as they represent in their entirety a somewhat new approach which is being adopted by the Government to the taxation laws. The vestiges of estate duties and gift duties, which are being eliminated and which at present are payable under laws which prevail in Australia would have to be regarded as modest in the extreme by comparison with practically any other comparable country. The Australian Labor Party does not agree with the policy which the Government has adopted. It does not agree with these Bills. It believes that they should be withdrawn and that an appropriate tax on capital should be provided for under the law. 
Before I deal with the merits of the Bills, which I intend to do only briefly in any event, I should point out that, in saying this, I do not mean to suggest that the Opposition is not aware of the fact that a great many people in the past have perhaps been unnecessarily and harshly afflicted by death duties. It certainly has been the case in past years where a surviving spouse has often been placed in a very difficult situation through the imposition of death duties on the value of the family home. Certainly there are very great difficulties with regard to farmers, for example, but those difficulties apply to anybody who carries on a business which may pass on from the father to the son. It may be a great enterprise; it might be a small artisan or a small shopkeeper whose son is working with him or whose wife is working with him in the business. On the decease of the principal of the business the surviving members of the family sometimes in the past have been placed in a crippling position as a result of the imposition of death duties. 
We are not advocating that that state of affairs should be restored. We are not saying that there are not very valid grounds, certainly in many instances, for a substantial amendment to be made to the laws relating to estate duty and gift duty. The only cursory mention I make of gift duty is that in fact without the existence of estate duty there would be very much less reason for laws relating to the imposition of gift duty than there are at the present time. I think all of us recognise that the primary purpose for somebody with reasonably substantial assets to make gifts is in order to avoid the incidence of probate duty or death duty on his decease. Having mentioned that, I think we can talk about these matters concurrently. What in fact we are talking about under these four Bills- this is why it is appropriate for them to be linked together- is the imposition of some form of tax on the passing on of an estate from a deceased person to those closely related members of his family who are dealt with in the Bills which are before us. 
It is the view of the Australian Labor Party- I would have thought that this is a view which is held not only by socialists but by a number of people who believe in the equality of opportunity and in a more egalitarian society- that there should not be an unrestricted flow of capital from one member of a family to another member of a family. I think that one should recall that death duties were first imposed in Great Britain in the early 1 890s under the last administration, I think it was, of  Mr Gladstone  whose Chancellor of the Exchequer was that famous Liberal and a man who is still regarded as being one of the most eloquent exponents of Liberal philosophyand I mean Liberal; I do not mean Conservative philosophy- and who, on the introduction of the death duties in the House of Commons, used the expression: 'We are all socialists now'. When he said: 'We are all socialists now', I do not think that  Sir William  Harcourt was saying that he was an advocate of the nationalisation of the means of production, distribution and exchange. I do not think the influence which Marx and Engels had on him was very great. 
But what  Sir William  Harcourt was saying was in line with the thinking of Gladstone; in fact, it was in line with the thinking of their predecessors. I refer to people such as  Sir Robert  Peel who was not himself a Liberal. Their thinking was that the purpose of civilised democratic constitutional government in countries such as Britain was to carry on the traditions which had been established by the glorious Whig revolution of 1688, to take by gradual constitutional means with the consent of the electors steps towards a state of society in which, whether the means of production were publicly or privately owned, at least there was, as far as one could possibly achieve these means by legislative action, equality of opportunity amongst all of the people to live in England, which was the country with which they were dealing. It was believed by them that one of the greatest hinderances to an egalitarian society- to a society where all people, whatever their abilities may be, whatever their dedication to hard work may be, whatever their good fortune may be subsequently in their lifewas lack of equality of opportunity. At least they would start off their lives with some sort of economic equality. 
In fact, the original imposition of death duties in Britain by the Liberals was primarily directed to the break-up of the vast landed estates. I think it might be remembered that in 1909 or 1910, during the great confrontation between the Liberal Government and the House of Lords, Lloyd George was the British Chancellor of the Exchequer. He referred to the situation which prevailed, as he saw it, in the United Kingdom at that time, when the great majority of Englishmen were strangers in the land of their birth. They were strangers in the land of their birth because they knew that all around them the vast estates, the vast wealth of the country, was not owned by them but by others who for the most part had not acquired that wealth themselves, whether honestly or dishonestly, but had inherited it from their fathers, who in turn had, in many of the cases- indeed, in most of the casesinherited it from their fathers, and so on back to the time, very frequently, if not of the Norman Conquest at least to the actions of Henry VIII against the monasteries when people of quite humble origins suddenly found themselves in possession of great priories which were passed on for many years to their descendants. 
I am obliged to  Dr Blewett  in another place for drawing the attention of the Parliament to the views of none other than Winston Churchill, the great British statesman who for many years was a member of the Liberal Party and then became a member of the Conservative Party. In fact, I think it could be said of Churchil that he did not join parties but parties joined him. In any event, he started off as a Conservative and then he joined the Liberal Party. Then he went back to the Conservative Party. However, there are some of us who are in the position where we cannot afford to be too critical about people doing that sort of thing. In fact, one might say that I am rather a Churchillian figure myself. I think it has to be said of  Sir Winston  Churchill that there are very few, if any, of the views which he expounded when he was a Liberal which he did not continue to expound as a conservative. The reason why he broke with the Liberal Party shortly after the Second World War was certainly not because of any disagreement with regard to the matter of death duties or taxation. The disagreement was primarily, as I understand it, with regard to matters of foreign policy and not of domestic policy. 
In any event, with his customary eloquence, in 1909 when Lloyd George was taking part in these debates to which I referred a few moments ago,  Mr Churchill  as he then was said: 
It has long been recognised that the state, which guarantees individuals the succession to their property, which secures them the peaceful entry upon the enjoyment of their property, has the right at the time of the death of the former occupant to levy a toll . . . 
Churchill was saying that it was because there was a secure and ordered constitutional government that one person was able to pass on to his successor the fruits of his labour or the fruits of what he had inherited from somebody else's labour. 
-He said that in 1909. This was a question of a principle; he was not discussing the rates. I may say to  Senator Messner  who has interjected that it is a position from which the present Conservative Party has not departed. It is not advocating the abolition of death duties, so I do not think that there is anything that  Sir Winston  Churchill said in 1909 which  Mrs Thatcher  would not say in 1978. 1 do not think the date is particularly relevant to this. It concerns the establishment of a principle. That is what is involved. When one refers, for example, to the Gospel of St John one does not say: 'On what date was that said?' Speaking as something of a secularis, I think that perhaps that similar consideration should be given to the words of  Sir Winston  Churchill. 
-Not having the facility of communing with departed spirits, I find that very difficult to answer. As I have already mentioned, a successor of  Sir Winston  Churchill as Leader of the Conservative Party has not changed her view, and I see no reason for believing that  Sir Winston  would have changed his view either.  Sir Winston  Churchill also said in the course of the same debate: 
Taxes upon estates at death are necessary, legitimate and fair. 
I do not want to enter into a debate about the virtues of socialism or private enterprise because that is not what is at stake here. One does not need to be a supporter of socialism to be a supporter of death duties. As I understand it, the argument that has been put forward by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is similar to the arguments used by Ayn Rand, Milton Friedman and other thinkers who seem somehow to have dropped out of the constellation of oracles to whom we were once advised to look for our inspiration. There was a time when they were quoted to us. As I understand the doctrines of 
Professor Friedman and  Ms Rand-  I am unaware of her marital status; I should not think that she is married, but if she is - 
I am being very charitable, but I can say only that if her husband had to rely completely on the market forces he might have had a rather difficult life. As I understand the doctrines that people like  Ms Rand  and Professor Friedman are putting forward, they are that the ideal society is a competitive society, a society in which people achieve things because of their even striving, because of the market forces which are available and because of their ability to provide the needs which are perceived by their fellow citizens or other people with whom they have to deal and that all of us should be in a position where we have to strive for our livings. In fact, without making it appear too crude, in a sense they are advocating a sort of law of the jungle, that the best society is a competitive society and that life was not meant to be easy. I am merely quoting some of  Senator Lewis'  mentors, some of the people he would read about back in Warrnambool. The doctrine is that this is the way in which society ought to be conducted. 
As I understand it, in all fairness to the Liberal Party, its philosophical principle is that those who ought to be rewarded are those who have striven the most and provided services for which others are looking. 
Vast amounts of wealth can be inherited, vasts amounts of capital can be accumulated as a result of the fluctuations of financial fortunes which are quite independent of the person whose assets increase and fortunes can be accumulated because of increases in the value of land or a sudden shortage of some commodity of which one is in possession or because of inflation, changes in the exchange rate of currencies and so on. Clearly that is not a case of effort. It is not a case of people striving in order to be rewarded and obtaining their wealth because of the contribution they have made, in whatever selfish way. I think that  Ms Rand  herself talks about the virtues of selfishness and says that the virtues of selfishness in the long run benefit the common weal. If we are to have a society in which wealth can be passed on and accumulated without effort on one 's part we will not have the sort of open society for which Liberals- I mean Australian Liberals; I do not mean British Liberals- claim that they stand and we will not have the sort of just society for which members of the Labor Party say the country should be working. 
Of course, there are all sons of problems relating to death duties. There are those that I have mentioned already with regard to the people who have a farm or who run some small business which would be bankrupted if heavy death duties were imposed on it. Of course it is reasonable for a man or woman, during the course of his or her working life to regard as one of the incentives for him or her to work the ability to accumulate some money to hand on to his or her children knowing that if the children fall upon adversity some time later on in life he or she will have left them some money to tide them over. It is an incentive for those people to work. To have confiscatory death duties clearly is a most unjust and inefficient way of conducting the economy. The Labor Party does not advocate that. We say that there ought to be some form of taxation which provides for the collection of revenue for the nation from accumulated wealth of the kind I have just mentioned. We are not necessarily arguing on this occasion for the retention of death duties. If honourable senators opposite look at the amendment moved by the Opposition they will see that it is to the effect that these Bills should be withdrawn until such time as an alternative form of tax on capital is introduced. We are not necessarily arguing for the retention of death duties. There may well be some other form of taxation on wealth which can be applied. 
If one looks at the position in the 22 countries which are members of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and which are the most advanced industrial countries with either a free enterprise economy, if we are to use that term, or a mixed economy- certainly the countries outside the Soviet bloc and the communist bloc- one will find that if this legislation is passed Australia will be the only one of the 22 countries which will not have death duties, a capital gains tax or a net wealth tax. Australia will have none of them. Clearly, there are no major capitalist countries or, for that matter, any very significant minor capitalist countries which are not members of the OECD. Every one of those countries, many of which have the most conservative governments, believe in the principles which Harcourt, Gladstone and Churchill adumbrated so many decades ago and which, nonetheless, still are valid today because we live in a society which needs to be regulated and in which provision of this kind has to be made and every one of them apart from Australia, as will be the situation if this amendment is defeated today, imposes one form or another of those taxes. 
For example, in the United States not only are death duties payable but also a capital gains tax is payable. Both are payable. We are to have neither. The United States does not have a net wealth tax but it has both death duties and a capital gains tax. Exactly the same situation applies in the United Kingdom. Switzerland would be in many respects the paradigm of a capitalist country. I do not suppose there is any country which, when one considers the small resources which it has available to it, has been able more effectively than Switzerland to make a capitalist system work while at the same time at least providing a basic social security system. It is by no means one of the most advanced systems in Europe; equally it is by no means one of the most backward. Switzerland is a country which has been highly successful in the management of its economy. It is a country about which no one has heard it said that enterprise has been stifled or that capitalists have been forced to go elsewhere to establish their businesses. It has a peculiar constitution whereby the Cabinet is based proportionately on the representation of the parties in the parliament but it has certainly never been dominated by the fraternal party of the Australian Labor Party- the Swiss Socialist Party. 
In this model capitalist country not only are there death duties and a capital gains tax but also there is a net wealth tax. All three are imposed in Switzerland. On the other hand, Austria, which has a socialist party government, a social democratic government, does not have death duties or a capital gains tax but it does have a net wealth tax. The figures in this regard are available. I do not want to go through all of them. I merely refer to Japan, which has death duties. All of those countries, in one permutation or combination of death duties or a capital gains tax or a net wealth tax, make some provision whereby capital cannot accumulate into the hands of families at the expense of the rest of the community. It may well be that after much greater consideration that has been given to the matter since the Bill was introduced the Australian Labor Party would agree with the Austrian proposal, would agree with the abolition of death duties and the imposition instead of a net wealth tax or a capital gains tax. Speaking purely from my own point of view, I would prefer a capital gains tax to a net wealth tax. It seems to me that there is something unjust in a net wealth tax that does not apply to a capital gains tax. The latter takes into account the sort of gains that people make fortuitously and not by effort, whereas a net wealth tax may well be a tax on somebody who has accumulated his wealth as a result of a completely legitimate effort on his behalf. 
Whatever the merits of the matter may be, and we are not saying that we condemn in themselves the proposals in these Bills, they affect only a relatively tiny proportion of the total population of Australia. The amount of revenue derived from them is minuscule, I suppose, when one looks at a Budget like the Australian Budget. But we are concerned about the principle. We believe it is quite extraordinary that a country such as Australia, which some decades ago led the world in social legislation, which had a reputation for its egalitarianism, should be the only country of all those 22 countries to have no tax on deceased estates, no tax on capital gains, no tax on net wealth, no tax whatsoever on any of those things. We are now moving into a position which had become intolerable in Great Britain over 80 years ago. We are moving into a position where we are doing things that  Senator Goldwater  would not have advocated. 
We do not believe that this is a correct approach to a very important problem. We believe this is a regressive measure. We believe it is a measure which allows the accumulation of wealth in the hands of the few at the expense of the many. We believe it is an economically inappropriate measure in that it is not one of those things like the reduction of income tax or sales tax which can prompt people to engage in further efforts or enterprise. There is no encouragement of that sort in this Bill. We believe that it is a concession to a relatively small number of people who have been excited by Poujadistessuch as a former senator from my own State who was with us for a while- to take up an issue of this kind. Of course, one is always able to arouse a certain amount of enthusiasm from people who think that a tax is being abolished. Admittedly, in many respects the case which was put for probate duties was not put very well. I repeat that it is not the principle of probate duties that we are arguing for today. We are arguing against the principle of abolishing any tax whatsoever on wealth. I commend the amendment to the Senate. 
asked me, as Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the following question without notice: 
What is the Arab Information Bureau? Does it have any standing within this country? Is it supported with funds or otherwise by any foreign governments? Are any of the people who work within the Arab Information Bureau citizens of another country? Indeed, are any of them in Australia on diplomatic passports? What are the consequences of being placed on such a black-list? And what is the Government doing to protect those Australian companies whose overseas trade could be damaged by the actions of this organisation in placing them on a black-list because of their activities in legitimate trading with a country with which Australia has friendly relations? 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's questions: 
I am aware of reports which were published in the  Age  on 5 January and in some other newspapers on subsequent days which purported to quote  Mr Rudolph  Abou Kater, who was described as a spokesman for the Arab Information Bureau. One implication of what  Mr Abou  Kater was reported to have said was that the list which includes the names of Australian companies said to be subject to the terms of the Arab League's boycott against trade with Israel, also includes the names of private individuals who have been 'black banned' by Arab countries because of their support for Israel.  Senator Wheeldon  was said to be on the list in that capacity. I have no information about what the consequences (if any) are for the individuals concerned of their being on this so-called black list'. But I should perhaps in any case point out that the list or lists in question are compiled and held by the Arab Boycott Office in Damascus and not by some organisation in Australia. 
As to the Arab Information Bureau, it is a private association of Australians of Arab origin which was formed in late 1973 with the aim of fostering a better understanding of and support for the Arab cause in Australia. In particular it sought to counter what its members apparently regarded as the adverse publicity which the Palestinian cause was being accorded by the Australian media at that time. As far as is known, the Bureau has never had either a permanent office or a paid staff or any formal connections with Arab Governments or overseas organisations. Nor, so far as we are aware, has it received funds from overseas sources.  Mr Abou  Kater, the spokesman for the Bureau, is, I understand, an Australian citizen. Neither the Bureau nor its members have been accorded any privileges or concessions in Australia. 
It follows from the foregoing that, as far as is known, there is no formal connection between the Arab Information Bureau, in Melbourne, and the Arab League's Central Boycott Office in Damascus which is responsible for the preparation of these lists. According to the press reports referred to above, it was  Mr W.  H. Hartley, not the spokesman for the Arab Information Bureau, who said that he 'informed the Arab States of Australian companies which deal with Israel '. I do not know whether the Arab Information Bureau also conveys such information to the Central Boycott Office, but, as far as it is possible to judge, the Bureau would not appear to be in any position to affect the activities of Australian companies trading in the Middle East. 
As far as the activities of the Central Boycott Office in Damascus are concerned, the Government's long-standing policy is to allow Australian firms as much scope as possible to exercise their own commercial judgment in respect of decisions affecting their trading activities. The Central Boycott Office's list does not seem to have had a significant effect on the plans or activities of Australian firms wishing to deal with both Israel and Arab countries. 
I do not wish to speak at any length  on  this matter at the moment except to commend the  Chairman  of the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on his report on a very significant matter which has been occasioning concern for a great many years. I think it has been one of the most useful enterprises in which this Committee has engaged. I join with  Senator Missen  in paying a short tribute to  Senator Devitt  and  Senator Tehan  who will be leaving the Senate on 30 June.  Senator Devitt,  although not a lawyer, had a great deal of interest in these matters.  Senator Tehan,  with his years of experience as a practising lawyer, was able to be of very great assistance to the Committee in its work. I know the Senate will miss both of them. I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. The Attorney-General will remember that earlier in the sessional period I asked him whether he had any information regarding reports which I had received that overseas telephone calls and cables were being intercepted by some arm of the Government for the purpose of obtaining information or evidence regarding currency speculation. Is the AttorneyGeneral able, as I understand he is, to give an answer to this question? 
I think it would be appropriate if I were to intervene just briefly at this time to reaffirm the opposition of the Australian Labor Party to retrospective legislation. However odious one may feel the practices are that one is legislating against, it is our view that retrospectivity is a very evil principle and one which is undermining the principles of the rule of law. We are supporting this legislation because we believe that on no fair construction of the meaning of the word retrospectivity' is this legislation in fact retrospective. It deals with the present financial year. For that reason the Australian Labor Party proposed an amendment that the legislation should, in fact, be made 'retrospective'- if one is going to use this word which I do not think is appropriate and I do not mean that in the sense in which one can express moral opposition to retrospective legislation- or applicable from 1 July, that is the beginning of this financial year. 
We hold the view that if taxation avoidance schemes such as the Curran scheme, which are dealt with by this legislation, were excluded from 1 July, it would be this financial year which is covered. After all, whatever provisional tax one may have to pay one is taxed on the earnings which one has received within a financial year. That was why we moved that amendment. It was not because we did not oppose the principle of retrospectivity. If there were any disagreement with any other opponents of retrospectivity, it was over the meaning of what is retrospective. We do not believe that our amendment was a proposal which would have made the law any more retrospective than that which is proposed in the Government's Bill. We think it would have been a tidier way of doing it. Nonetheless, we support the Bill which is before the Committee at the present time. At the same time we reaffirm our total opposition to retrospectivity of legislation as a principle, and we reaffirm our view that this is not retrospective legislation. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. It relates to the accurate reports of substantial portions of the Budget which appeared in the Australian Press before the Budget was presented to the Parliament by the Treasurer. Were these reports of the Budget's contents made available to the Press by the Government or any of its Ministers? If this is the case, does this indicate that the Government is adopting a new policy of revealing the contents of the Budget before it is presented to the Parliament? If the information was not provided to the Press by the Government or any of its Ministers and without their authority, what investigations are being made by the Government into who was responsible for this nefarious action? 
I wish to raise briefly on the first reading of this money Bill a matter which, I think, warrants some comment in the Senate. It would take too much time to raise the matter in Question Time, and I have an aversion to raising matters during the adjournment debate. This matter is applicable to the Insurance Acts and Life Insurance Acts. I ask the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  who is in the chamber at present to convey to the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  who represents in this chamber the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  who is responsible for those Acts what I have to say on this topic. 
I rise because I noticed recently an action which had been taken in one of the courts in the United States by an aggrieved person who was proceeding under the consumer protection law applicable in at least one of the states of the United States. A person who had appeared in an advertisement for a certain service or article was being brought before the court by the plaintiff who had claimed that the product or service was unsatisfactory. The defendant in this action was not a principal of the organisation which had marketed the product but was one of the people whom we see quite frequently in the newspapers and on the television, endorsing the value of a product. As it apparently turned out, not only was the product not valuable but also it was harmful. Under the American consumer protection law it is possible in those circumstances to bring an action against any person who has induced some other person to purchase a product. 
I realise that the Commonwealth Parliament does not have the power to legislate across the broad spectrum of consumer protection in a way which could cover instances such as this in all the various fields of commerce, but there are certain areas in which this could be done. I suggest that it would be a very desirable piece of legislation which could prevent people who have a reputation as sportsmen or television personalities from quite irresponsibly appearing on the television or in the Press and saying that some commodity is highly desirable and beneficial, thereby inducing the purchase of the commodity by people who, as a result of the representations which had been made to them through the advertisement, suffered some ill. Although the Commonwealth Parliament cannot legislate with regard to the whole field of consumer protection I think there is one field in which it possibly could. That is in the field of insurance with regard to the matters dealt with by the Insurance Acts and those dealt with by the life insurance Acts. 
What has prompted me to speak is some of the circumstances which preceded the collapse of VIP Insurances Ltd. I do not want to comment on the merits or otherwise of the directors of VIP or what might happen to the creditors of that company in future. I think that most senators would be familiar with an advertisement which appeared frequently on Australian television for VIP Insurances. I am not a frequent television watcher. The amount of time I spend watching commercial television is very small, but even I was submitted on a number of occasions to a television advertisement for VIP Insurances which featured a gentleman who appears on television. I think his name is Ward. I am not quite sure what he does on television apart from appearing on it. I think that he is one of those well-known personalities who were once described by somebody as being well-known for being well-known. 

 Mr Ward who certainly appears on some current affairs programs concerned with news was seenintheadvertisementforVIPInsurancesto emerge from a palatial residence or superior motel and get into a very expensive car. I think it was either a Rolls Royce or a Mercedes. He assured viewers- that appeared to be what he was doing- that the reason he was living in such style was that he was insured with VIP Insurances. He then explained to everybody what desirable policies were provided by VIP Insurances. He said that not only was splendid protection provided for those who were fortunate enough to be insured with VIP Insurances but also that no one had anything to worry about, it being such a safe and secure company because it was re-insured with one of the biggest reinsurance companies in the United States. Anybody who knew anything about insurance would treat this for the nonsense that it is. The fact that somebody is re-insured with a big re-insurance company does not mean anything. It depends on the amount of re-insurance. It certainly does not have anything to do with somebody tickling the peter and vanishing with the assets of the company. Nonetheless, I believe that this advertisement must have induced some people to take out insurance policies with VIP Insurances. The proprietors of VIP Insurance, at least one of whom has vanished from the jurisdiction of the Australian courts, obviously must have thought that this would induce people to take out policies with their company otherwise they would not have taken out the advertisements in the first place. 
I imagine most people in the community do not know very much about insurance. I think it is a very sad state of affairs that people who do not know very much about insurance were induced to put into that insurance company what for them would have been quite significant sums of money, only to find themselves without the insurance cover which they thought they were getting when they paid this money on the say-so of somebody who, presumably for a fee- I cannot imagine it would be done in an honorary capacity- appears on television, has some reputation for being a television personality, induces people to risk their money and, indeed, in this case to lose their money. As happened to be the case in this instance, as a result of this person 's representations the unfortunate policy-holders of VIP Insurance were placed in the unfortunate position that they are in at the present time and no redress whatsoever can be sought against the person whose encomiums and endorsement led them to take out their policy. This has been corrected in the United States by legislation- as I said, I am not sure whether it was by Federal or State legislation - which provides for damages to be obtained from somebody who has done this. I think that the Commonwealth Parliament should consider introducing such legislation in those areas where the Commonwealth Parliament does have the power to do so. I think that it has that power in the field of insurance and life assurance. 
I notice that other insurance companies are engaging in the same sorts of advertising techniques lately and we see appearing on television and in advertisements in newspapers people who certainly are not actuaries, accountants or people who have any especial knowledge of insurance or life assurance, but who are called on to say how magnificent it is to take a policy with a particular insurance company. I think that this is a very bad practice indeed. I think that it is particularly bad when one remembers that, as  Senator Archer  reminded us yesterday, the Corporation of Insurance Brokers of Australia has claimed that at the present time something like 50 insurance companies operating within Australia are financially insecure. I can well imagine that some of them could be among those companies which are using this type of advertising. I ask that the Minister convey to the Minister representing the Treasurer the thoughts which I have just expressed on this matter. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It arises from the recent shooting down of a Rhodesian civil airliner by forces belonging to the faction of the Patriotic Front led by  Mr Joshua  Nkomo, which has claimed credit, if that is the appropriate word, for the shooting down of the plane and the massacre of the survivors; also from the statement which is reported to have been made yesterday by  Mr Nkomo  to the effect that he would not be party to any negotiations with the Salisbury Government and would accept only surrender from that Government. Would the Minister not agree that, to say the least, this would cast some doubt over the possibility of there being fruitful negotiations, or any negotiations for that matter, between the Patriotic Front and the Salisbury Government? As one of the declared purposes of the continuation of the application of sanctions since the socalled internal settlement is the desire to bring the various parties to the conference table, have these recent events caused the Government in any way to review its attitude towards sanctions? As I appreciate that the Minister probably would not be in a position to answer the question without reference to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, would he ask the Minister whether a statement could be brought down in Parliament on the earliest occasion so that members will know what our current position is with regard to these very important and dangerous matters? 
I feel that I have nothing whatever to add to what I have said already on this matter. I am merely rising because I appear on the bill of fare so to speak and would not want to disappoint my many admirers who will be waiting to hear me say something. What has been said already on this report by the  Chairman  of the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs,  Senator Missen,  admirably dealt with the contents of the report. With my benediction I let the matter rest. 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, is similar to the question which I ask her, largely I suppose for reasons of nostalgia, every six months or so, and which concerns the national compensation scheme. If I recollect correctly, the last time I asked the Minister about the progress of the Government's undertaking to introduce its own national compensation scheme, she told me that the Department of Social Security was inquiring into it and that the inquiries were coming along quite nicely. I wonder whether she could tell me what stage these inquiries have now reached? Is there still a unit, if that is the appropriate description, within the Department studying national compensation, and when is it likely that we will hear from the Minister about the Government's proposed scheme? 
I present the following petition from 96 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled, the Petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That Radio 3CR Melbourne, be made to adhere to the required standards of broadcasting, as laid down for all other radio stations. 
The petitioners request that the Federal Government and Broadcasting Tribunal should enforce the required standard of broadcasting as laid down for all other stations, on community Radio 3CR call on Federal Government to legislate against incitement to racial hatred and violence. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Does the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree that the agreement which has been reached at Camp David between the  President  of the Arab Republic of Egypt and the Prime Minister of Israel offers an excellent chance for obtaining peace in the Middle East and an opportunity which should be furthered by all governments? Will the Australian Government use whatever influence it can bring to bear on the other countries within the region in order to endeavour to induce them to abide by the principle of the agreement which has been reached? Will the Government make a statement on the current situation in the Middle East as early as possible? 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 5.30 to 8.35 p.m. 

 General Business taking precedence of Government Business after 8 p.m. 

-I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. I refer her to the Senate  Hansard  of 22 August of this year and in particular to page 230 where, in answer to a question by  Senator Harradine  relating to the means testing of the family allowance, she said: 
As I indicated earlier, the drafting of legislation is proceeding at present. I am able to answer  Senator Harradine  by saying that it is intended that personal exertion income achieved by children will not be subjected to the means test. 
I refer the Minister further to page 234 where, in answer to a question from  Senator Gietzelt  again on the matter of the means testing of the family allowance, she is reported as saying: 
However, because of the concern that has been expressed in the community the Government has reviewed the decision and will make it clear when drawing up the legislation that it does not intend to include in the means testing arrangement income which results from the personal exertion of the child concerned. 
Does the Minister not concede that that is a categorical statement that no consideration will be given to income derived by the personal exertion of children? In that statement no mention is made of any $312 per annum or of any other figure. Will the Minister have a further look at the  Hansard  records and reconsider the answers that she gave honourable senators earlier today? 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, arises from the present situation in the Lebanon where it appears that a massacre of the Lebanese Christian population is taking place. Has the Minister considered the possibility of refugees from the Lebanon seeking admission to Australia? If so, could a statement be made to the Parliament as soon as possible as many Australians of Lebanese origin are very concerned about this matter and a great many other Australians are likewise concerned about the fate of these people? 
-I am pleased to be able to support the resolution which has been moved by  Senator Chipp.  I regard this as one of the most important matters which has been brought before the Senate in the 1 3 years that I have been a member of the Senate. It does not appear to be a matter which has attracted the attention of a great many honourable senators. I do not think that it could be denied that there are a lot of other matters which the Senate would regard as being more important than this matter but I think that this reflects discredit on the Senate rather than suggests that there is anything trivial about the matter that has been raised. I have listened very attentively to what  Senator Carrick  has said. I must say, with respect to him, that I was not impressed by what he said. I have the feeling that his heart was not in this matter. I think he was given a poor brief. I am sorry he did not decline to accept the brief. 
What is the issue that has been raised? The Minister said earlier today in answer to a question something to the effect that this is a complex matter. If I may have the temerity to say so, I do not believe it is a complex matter; I think it is a very simple matter. I think it is a very simple matter to this extent: Is Australia to be the sort of country which will say that its own GovernorGeneral, its own Head of State, cannot fly on an Australian airline on an ordinary scheduled flight? Is that what Australia is going to say? Is that what we have been reduced to? Because of the problems of travel agents, because of the business that is involved in flogging tickets, have we been reduced to the abject level that we have to act so sycophantly towards the Government of Syria that we have to reduce ourselves to a stage where we say: 'Yes, it is deplorable but unfortunately there are business considerations and we cannot do anything about it'. I believe the issue is just as simple as that. 
What is the allegation that has been made which appeared in this morning's article in the Melbourne  Age  to which  Senator Chipp  has referred? It is an allegation which has not been denied by the Minister. We have heard a great deal about all sorts of complex matters which go on with regard to booking tickets and travelling on aeroplanes, but we have not received an answer to the questions which are raised in this morning's  Age.  There appeared a quotation attributed to a spokesman- as he is described- for Qantas. This statement has not been rebutted by the Minister. A report in today's Melbourne  Age says:   the Syrian Government had been refusing entry and transit facilities to Israeli citizens and Jews of any nationality for some time. 
He said the ban applied to Qantas, even though all passengers remained on board the airline's jets during Damascus stopovers. 
All airlines and travel agents were reminded of the ban in the monthly  Travel Information Manual  published by the International Air Transport Association, of which Qantas is a member. 
The Minister has said that we deplore these terrible things. We deplore racism. We hate it. But we live in the real world, and there is the real world, and facts are facts; and there are the facts. If we allow this to continue we are accessories to those facts. We are parties to those facts. It is no use our saying: 'We deplore it. Isn't it horrible? Is not this practice of racial discrimination a shocking thing, but there must be some hundreds of thousands of dollars involved in the trade so we will continue with it'. It reminds one of those highly moral captains of slave ships who used to transport the blacks from Africa to the American colonies in the eighteenth century and who saying their prayers said: 'What a dreadful thing the slave trade is, but unfortunately business is business. You have to to make your living some way or the other, so we will ship them across there '. That is what we are saying about this. 
I may appear to have a cavalier attitude towards Australia's financial arrangements, our balance of payments and the future of our airline industry, but as far as I am concerned I would rather see Australia have no Qantas airline at all than that we should be parties to something like this. I think this is the same as saying you are in the gas chamber business and that  Mr Eichmann  has made a request for some gas chambers. Although you deplore what he is going to do with them, think of all your employees, think of your balance of payments for your gas chambers. Of course you will have to sell them to him. 
What we are doing by saying that is to indicate that quite clearly we are going to aid and abet the Government of Syria to practise what has been described as religious discrimination, but it is racial discrimination, against Jewish people including Australian Jews. I am not specifying them as I believe the rights of any other resident of Australia or any other person are as good as those of an Australian citizen but I think it shows just how abject we have become when we include our own citizens, including our own Governor-General, among those people whom we would not carry on Qantas on a flight which would stop in Damascus. We are just as guilty as those people who are mouthing these insane statements in Damascus and in Baghdad. We are parties to it. We are just like those good German policemen, good solid Liberals and Social Democrats who carried out their orders from Hitler after 1933- people who would never have voted Nazi in their lives and who said: 'Isn't it shocking. I am really sad about those people I had to go around and collect and take to the camp'. That is what we are doing here. I am not in the least bit impressed by a recitation about various countries with lists of names and requirements they have on them. 
Although I concede that the Minister was prepared to accept the qualification that I interjected, I think it is quite unpardonable to suggest that the actions of Israel in this matter are in any way equivalent to those of Syria. There is a state of war between Israel and the Arab League countries. Israel will not accept- I suppose there is a difference now with at least Egypt but the practice has been in the past that Israel would not accept- people travelling on passports of countries belonging to Arab League because of the state of war. Conversely, the Arab League countries would not accept the passports of those who are Israeli citizens. That they would not accept Israelis is unfortunate but that is a political consequence of a political situation. 
If the Syrian Government had said: 'We are in a state of war with Israel; therefore, we will not accept Israeli passport holders', we could then say that all these terrible things would not be solved until the Middle East situation has been settled. We could say all of that and no doubt we would be satisfied about it- or some of us would be- and that would be fair enough; it is reciprocal. However, what is being said here is that no Jewish person- it does not have to be an Israeli; it can be our Governor-General- is not allowed in. Israel has not said that no Arab is allowed to go into Tel Aviv. In fact, the streets of Tel Aviv are full of Arabs- Israeli Arabs and all sorts of Arabs- passing through that country. The have not said that Indian Muslims or Australian Muslims or people of Palestinian or Lebanese origin who have become naturalised Australians are not allowed to go into Israel. There is absolutely no parallel whatsoever. 
If I may say so, I get a bit tired sometimes when I am faced with a very significant moral issue and hear it said: 'Of course everybody is just the same. One is just as bad as the other. It is all very difficult. Here is Australia in this awkward situation. The Israelis will not let some people in. The Syrians will not let some others in. We have to look after our business. We will just do the best to see the trade keeps flowing along'. That is not the case here. This is a very simple, clear case. I do not care whether there are 50 other countries doing it; the fact is that oneSyria has been drawn to our attention. We have some sort of arrangement with Syria whereby Australian aircraft are landing in Damascus and various flunkeys around Qantas offices, performing the traditional role of a flunkey, are saying to good Australians: 'You cannot travel on our aircraft because you are Jewish'. I think it is disgraceful. I think it is shameful. I think it reflects great discredit on Qantas. I have been very proud of Qantas too, but I am not proud of Qantas while it is doing this sort of thing. I am ashamed of Qantas and I am ashamed of a government which allows this to continue. I do not think it is good enough to say: 'We are looking into it and here is the real world. Sooner or later everything will be for the best in the best of all possible worlds'. It will not be, if this continues. People spent the 1930s talking about beef subsidies and matters of this kind, and not looking at the real issues and at what was really happening in the world. It was not the beef subsidies that got us into the Second World War; it was the sorts of things which the Nazis were doing and which bear a very great similarity to what is being done by the present Syrian Government. 
I do not want to digress too far, but one matter that has been agitating my mind for a little while has not concerned Jews at all. It is concerned with the position of Lebanese Christians. I am speaking with complete impartiality on these matters, as a long-standing atheist. The position of the Lebanese Christians at present is also quite intolerable. I do not think there is any doubt that what is taking place at present is a campaign of genocide by the Syrian Government and the Syrian armed forces. As moderate and restrained a newspaper as  Le Monde  of Paris- one of the best informed newspapers in the world- in an article only a week or two ago referred to the situation of the Lebanese Maronite Christians as one of Calvary. Our Government, as far as I know, has said nothing about that. It might have issued the usual bromides about looking forward to a peaceful settlement and hoping that good sense will prevail or something like that; but it has made no condemnation of the situation. To compound that, we find here that we are crawling to the Syrian Government by refusing our own citizens the right to travel on Australian aircraft. If it is so awkward to fly around Syria, let us stop flying the aircraft there at all. I think it is a most disgusting state of affairs that Australian citizens and residents or any other persons should be placed in this position by a national airline. We have a responsibility for Qantas. This Government and this Parliament have a responsibility for Qantas. 
If people think that they are going to bring about peace in the Middle East or anywhere else by conniving at actions of this kind, I think that they are going to be in for the same sort of surprise as  Mr Neville  Chamberlain had in 1939. 
We do not get peace that way. We shall get peace only by making our position perfectly clear, by saying to the Government of Syria or the government of anywhere else, whatever it does or whatever is done by governments of the other countries on the list with which  Senator Carrick  regaled us, that at least Australia is not going to be prepared to tolerate it. We are a small country and I am not suggesting that we send gunboats into Beirut harbour; but at least we should be able to say that, whatever other countries are doing there, we are not going to do it here and that we are not going to have booking clerks in Melbourne acting as agents for the Syrian Government. That is what we are doing at present. That is what I believe this matter of public importance is deploring. I hope that it is carried. I hope that the Government takes some notice of it and does not just pass it over and say that it is going to look into it and that in the fullness of time everything will come out in the wash, because it will not. 
I ask the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs whether the Government would be prepared to issue a statement explaining the moral distinction between the South African Government's refusal to allow non-whites to belong to South African cricket teams and the Australian national airline's refusal to allow Jews to fly on Australian Government aircraft. Would the Minister not agree that the position which Australia is following with regard to apartheid in South Africa and racial discrimination in other parts of the world such as Rhodesia, may be taken by some critical observers to be somewhat hypocritical for so long as Qantas either refuses or discourages the travel by Australian Jews on Australian aircraft? 
I think that the points have been made very clearly by  Senator Grimes  and  Senator Cavanagh. 
-That is the honourable senator's opinion, but it is not mine. I must say that the points may have been made clearly enough for  Senator Archer's  satisfaction, but certainly not for mine. I am by no means satisfied by the Minister's response. I suggest to  Senator Guilfoyle  that she postpone consideration of this matter in order to seek further advice on it. I do not want to reflect on her advisers, but I might suggest to her that I do not think the advice she is getting is really awfully good. I would have thought that it was an unusual procedure, to say the least, to make statements of law in Bills to describe which Acts do or do not apply. As  Senator Cavanagh  said earlier, all sorts of Acts do not apply. The Crimes Act does not apply either, but that is not being stated in the Bill. What is being stated in this Bill is that the Rules 
Publication Act 1903 does not apply in relation to a determination under proposed new section 73F. (2). 
What is the purpose of putting that provision in the Bill? Is the Minister conducting a refresher course-for lawyers in the Senate or a class in Statute Law One for law students? Are we to have a recitation of all sorts of other Acts and regulations which may not apply? Surely the only reason for including proposed new section 73f. (4) in the Bill, other than the Government deciding that it may fight unemployment by printing redundant material in Bills, is that there is some doubt as to whether the Rules Publication Act 1903 applies to the guidelines to be given with regard to hospital benefits. If that is not the reason.T do not know what is the reason, unless, as I say, we are having some part-time legal instruction given to those of us who have seen some years roll by since we passed our law exams. 
As there is some doubt about this matter and, as I would have imagined, a great many honourable senators on both sides of the chamber are reluctant to accede to a request by executive government to forfeit the right to examine subordinate legislation- that is to say, to examine regulations through the scrutiny of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances and the Senate itself- it would seem to be very unfortunate that, if this provision means what it appears to mean, the Government is making an effort to remove the otherwise necessary provisions of the Rules Publication Act from the publication of these guidelines which are very fundamental to the purposes of this Bill. I can think of no explanation whatsoever other than that there must be some reason to believe that otherwise there would have to be publication of the guidelines in the form of regulations. I realise that it is not the Minister's Bill and I know that she is acting on advice. I do not think that I intervened unnecessarily in these debates or try to hold up the business, but this is a rather serious matter. Could it not be brought back tomorrow? Could not the Minister seek some other advice, perhaps speak to the Attorney-General? I must say that I believe the advice she has been given and is passing on to us is thoroughly unsatisfactory. There are enough problems with legislation without having put before us in this way what is either significant, in which case it ought to be debated by virtue of its significance, or unnecessary nonsense. It is not good enough to have legislation like that, and I do suggest to the Minister that she seek further advice. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is prompted by the recent statement by the Deputy Prime Minister to the effect that Australia can look forward to a glowing future if it enters into co-operation with the People's Republic of China. Does the Minister recollect that only a few years ago members of the present Government parties accused the Australian Labor Party of subversive intent when it advocated the establishment of diplomatic relations with the People's Republic of China and that indeed those parties when in government - 
Indeed they did. They said it very frequently. Is it not also a fact that the present Government parties, when previously in government, conscripted Australians to fight in Vietnam, one of the reasons claimed for so doing being that the People's Republic of China presented a threat to Australia and that Australians needed to fight in Vietnam to halt the downward thrust of menacing Chinese communism? Can the Minister explain to the Senate when the nature of China so changed as to bring about this remarkable reversal in form by the members of the present Government parties? What was it that happened in China? When did it happen? What assurances can the Government give us that the Chinese are not as bad as it said they were a few years ago? If the Minister is unable to do this, will he admit that the Government was wrong when it conscripted young Australians a few years ago and when it attacked the Australian Labor Party merely for wishing to have diplomatic relations with China? 
I present the following petition from 204 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members ofthe Senate in Parliament assembled, the petition ofthe undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That radio 3CR Melbourne, be made to adhere to the required standards of Broadcasting, as laid down for all other radio stations. 
The petitioners request that the federal government and broadcasting tribunal should enforce the required standard of broadcasting as laid down for all other stations, on community radio 3CR call on Federal Government to legislate against incitement to racial hatred and violence. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs and relates to reports that the Government is considering establishing consular or diplomatic relations with Democratic Kampuchea. Bearing in mind the fact that Australia may well find it necessary on many occasions to establish such relations with countries of whose governments, and the practices of whose governments, it does not approve, will the Government, in considering the establishment of any such relations with Democratic Kampuchea bear in mind the quite spectacular deprivation of human rights that appears to be taking place in that country and weigh it carefully in the balance against any gain that may be achieved by Australia in establishing such relations before proceeding further with the course which some have predicted that the Government has now embarked upon. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs noticed that  Mr Joshua  Nkomo has claimed that his organisation was responsible for the shooting down of a Rhodesian airliner and the subsequent killing of some 59 people who were on board that plane? Has this exploit reinforced the Government's view that negotiations should be pursued with the Rhodesian Patriotic Front rather than with the parties to the internal settlement? Does the Government feel any concern or regret about this event? If so, has it expressed any concern or regret to  Mr Nkomo  or to anyone else? 
-My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, relates to the recent events in Iran. Was the Australian Government warned by our Embassy in Teheran or by the Department of Foreign Affairs as to the possibility of the conflagration taking place in Iran which in fact did take place, or was the Government caught unawares by the events which occurred in Iran? Will the Minister consider making a statement to the Parliament at the earliest possible opportunity on the situation which has arisen from the events in Iran, both insofar as the energy resources of the world are affected by the events in that country and also the political significance of the resurgence of Islamic militancy in Iran, as in other parts of the Islamic world? 
I feel that I should open my speech by congratulating  Senator Sheil  for having one characteristic and that is that of consistency. At least I have always known what is  Senator Sheil  's foreign policy. It is not very frequent that I agree with it but it has always been perfectly clear what it is that he is saying. It has also been the case that he has quite courageously, at the cost of personal inconvenience and discomfort, been prepared to advocate that policy. I think that there ought to be a great deal more of that than there has been in the Parliament. I think that  Senator Sheil  stands out quite conspicuously in the ranks of the Government parties for at least sticking to a policy and putting forward that policy. I do not think that the same can be said about the present Government because, as I shall go on to show, it would defy the ingenuity of an Einstein to distinguish what is the foreign policy of the present Government. 
I know that it is often very difficult to have a debate on foreign policy. We do not have them here very frequently. I think that one of the reasons is that the public generally is not concerned about foreign policy. Generally foreign policy is something which concerns the mass of the population only when bombs are actually falling on their heads. Normally their representatives in the Parliament are quite oblivious of issues which affect the lives of all their people. If one were to look through the debates in the British House of Commons and the French Chamber of Deputies in the 1930s one would see how little attention was given to a menace which, restrospectively at any rate, was quite apparent. I refer to Nazi Germany. The people did not want to talk about it. They wanted to talk about the subsidy for Algerian wine or the future of the pig iron industry in Lancashire. They wanted to talk about anything but what was the real problem and that was the threat to the lives of their societies which was coming from another source. I am afraid to say that the same has been the case in Australia for a great many years. 
We are debating this statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  at one of the most dangerous periods in modern history. I do not think that it is just hyperbole or some effort to add flamboyance to what might be otherwise a dull address when I say that because if we look at three important areas of the world at present we see a state of affairs which cannot be described as being anything short of a conflagration which could not only threaten our oil supplies and cause us to shut down petrol stations over the weekend but also cause the whole lot of us to be shut down permanently. 
Where are these three areas? First of all there is South-East Asia where we are seeing a conflict between allegedly Marxist states- the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics; the People's Republic of China; Socialist Vietnam and Democratic Kampuchea. The Soviet Union, which is certainly one of the two most powerful countries in the world, and China, which is at the very least one of the half dozen most powerful countries of the world, are on the very edge of armed conflict with states with which they were allied. In the case of China it is the so-called Democratic Kampuchea and in the case of the Soviet Union it is Vietnam. They are engaged in serious armed conflict. People are making claims about 24 divisions being destroyed. It is not just some minor border skirmish; it is war. 
In Africa we are seeing the collapse of a whole system of states which  Senator Sheil  has very correctly said were artificially created by colonial powers throughout the 19th century and which retained some sort of tatterdemalion existence after the Western powers rapidly evacuated from those states. This very day we heard about an invasion of Uganda by the armed forces of Tanzania. Probably one of the most brutal conflicts in modern history is taking place at present in parts of Ethiopia. Only the other day my colleague  Senator Tate  and I were talking to two people who had come from Eritrea. What is being undertaken against the Eritrean people by the Government of Ethiopia and those countries with which it is in alliance can be described as little short of genocide. Then we move to the events in Iran. Iran, which is one of the most formidable countries in the Third World, if one can talk about Iran's previous situation as being part of the Third World, is in a state of disintegration before our very eyes. 
All of these conflicts are important from the point of view of the economic consequences which might flow from a shortage of Iranian oil or some other product from somewhere else and have serious consequence for all of us because all of the Western powers and all of the powers within the Soviet bloc are in one way or another involved in every one of these conflicts. Powers which have been standing off in some sort of condition which could not be described as anything better than non-belligerency are now having their clients, their supporters and, in some cases, their own troops actually fighting each other. 
What we have seen over the past few years has been a total failure of Western foreign policy- a total, abject failure. First of all let us look at the situation in South East Asia and specifically Indo-China. What a sorry record this Government and the governments of the United States and Western Europe have in this area. After the eviction of the Japanese from Indo-China in 1945, when the British troops moved in, the French were brought back but clearly they were not wanted by the local inhabitants and were evicted after the battle of Dien Bien Phu in 1954. The United States then moved into that country and bolstered up various puppet regimes which clearly again did not have the support of the population. Thousands upon thousands of people from our own country and the United States as well as from Indo-China died trying to preserve regimes which obviously could not last, whatever the morality of it may have been, and were bound to be destroyed. We see now what is left. Warring factions such as the supporters of Pol Pot, the supporters of Pham Van Dong and the supporters of the twice resuscitated First  Deputy  Premier of China are brawling, fighting, murdering and bombing in Indo-China. It is now in a mess and in chaos. This very largely- not entirely because people are capable of doing things for themselves- a product of Western foreign policy, including that of this country. 
I turn to the situation in Africa. For years it was apparent that the regimes in Rhodesia and South Africa would have to make drastic changes if they were to survive and that if they did not make those drastic changes there would be a terrible, bloody conflict. The West did virtually nothing. It is only now that arms are in the hands of organisations such as the Zimbabwe Patriotic Front and South Africa has been forced, under whatever terms, to get out of Namibia that at last the West is starting to take an interest in this situation. It is difficult to know what the West is trying to do but at least it seems to be trying to do something. I must confess that I would have been very grateful if the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in his statement, had explained what it is we are trying to do, because I still do not know. But we are clearly trying to do something other than giving the sort of support, moral or otherwise, which we previously gave to the governments in Pretoria and Salisbury. 
In Iran we have another debacle, another sign of the complete inadequacy and stupidity of Western foreign policy. What happened in the early 1950s? A moderate Prime Minister was elected in that country.  Dr Mohammed  Mossadegh, a very cultured, Western style, slightly left of centre intellectual- a product of the Sorbonne- an historian, became the Prime Minister of Iran. He had a modest proposal- the nationalisation of oil. One may or may not think that oil ought to be nationalised; I take it that  Senator Puplick  does not. But it was Iranian oil and the Government of Iran wished to acquire ownership of that oil. Never was any claim made that Iran would not export that oil to Israel or to anybody in the West. It was purely a domestic matter concerning the people of Iran. 
What was the contribution of the West? Here I refer specifically to the United States of America and even more specifically to the Central Intelligence Agency. I am not one of those people who say that the explanation of all the world 's ills is to be found in the CIA. I do not believe that that is anything like the case; in fact I have grave doubts that the CIA still exists. Certainly in those circumstances the CIA was quite open about it. It did intervene on behalf of the United States. It removed the democratically elected government in Iran and installed one of the most barbaric dictatorships to be found anywhere in the world- the dictatorship of that cowardly cur, the Shah of Persia, a man who flew around in aeroplanes apparently with gold taps and gold baths; the man who, according to some reports, in conjunction with his family has been able to ship $ 17,000m worth of assets out of the country. He is the man who based himself on one of the cruellest, most barbaric secret police forces- the Savak- known to humanity since the German Gestapo. He is the man who did not even have the courage to stay in Iran when trouble started, but cleared off at the first sign of an uprising. When he was going he was kind enough to invite  Dr Baktiar,  the Prime Minister of Iran, to stand firm. That was his parting message as he fled his own country, after living off the penury of the mass of his own people, and their persecution and torture by his own secret police. 
What do we find after all that? What has been the end result of Western foreign policy in Iran? Not only has the Shah gone, but Iran does not have a moderate Paris university professor like  Dr Mossadegh;  it has the Ayatollah Khomeini, who wants to cut off people's hands, who wants to persecute minorities like the Bahais, the Jews, the Christians, the Zoroastrians and the free thinkers of that country. He is the man who, at his residence outside of Paris, had a sign: Women: Respect the Veil'. In the minds of some people the Ayatollah is emerging as some sort of a marxist. If he is a marxist he must have read some different volumes from those that I have read. 
This is probably one of the most reactionary, obscene, obsessive dictatorships that one could imagine anywhere, replacing one which was almost as bad. I must confess that I am no admirer of the Shah. In fact when the Shah was in this country a luncheon was given for him which I refused to attend. 
I was one of them. But I must say this: I am now in the awful situation of believing that in Iran it is probably going to be worse under the Ayatollah Khomeini than it was under the Shah. Who is responsible for this? I would say that it is quite clear that the people who are responsible are the people who put the Shah there and who kept the Shah there, and they are the people who are still conducting foreign policy in Australia. They are precisely the same. 
This foreign policy statement, if that is what it is to be called, offers us nothing but platitudes and bromides that we ought to offer a bit of advice here, we ought to work for a bit of peace there and we should not overdo it, we ought not to push too hard and not upset the Chinese, not upset the Russians and not upset anybody, and in the end it will all pan out as long as we keep a pleasant smile on our faces. I do not believe that this is so. I think it is dme that Australia had a clear foreign policy so that people can know what it is we are doing. It is no use saying that in all these arguments everybody is equally to blame because they are not. There is never any argument in which everybody is equally to blame. What we ought to be enunciating, or rather what the Government ought to be enunciating- it is not much use my doing it and not much use the Opposition's doing it- is what it stands for and what goals it is going to work for. We do not want a patch-up here and a patch-up there and the attitude 'let us not upset the South Africans too much, but on the other hand do not upset the Patriotic Front either', because that is not going to lead us anywhere. Those were policies that British governments followed throughout the 1930s. If it had not been for the recall of Churchill in 1940, it would have led to the end of the whole lot of them. I think we and the dithering Administration in the United States are embarked on precisely the same course. 
I will come to them in a moment. What I think has to be said is that at least in a period in the past one knew what the 
Federal Government's policy was. At least in the days of Dulles and Casey one knew what the Federal Government was trying to do. As it happened, their plan did not work and in any event, I did not agree with it. They were saying that they were going to set up a network of noncommunist or anti-communist countries around the world and they were going to resist the enlargement of any territory by the communist countries. They were pretty broad in their definition of what constituted a communist. According to their version even  Dr Mossadegh  was a communist.  President  Arbenz Guzman of Guatemala, another liberal, also was removed by the same sort of people and replaced with another military dictatorship which in due course will probably go the same way as the Shah and there will be a similar sort of situation down there to that existing in other places where their sponsored governments have come to grief when their own people have ultimately caught up with them. That policy failed and now it can be seen that we do not have any policy whatsoever. 

 Senator Baume has invited me to make some suggestions as to what we ought to do. I would like to do that. First of all, with regard to South East Asia, and I hope that this does not seem contrary to what I said earlier, I believe that we ought to dissociate ourselves as far as we possibly can from all the parties to the current dispute in Asia. What we are seeing there is a brawl between rival dictatorships. I do not believe that we are in any better position to make a moral judgment on the merits of the parties than we would have been as a government to have made a moral judgment on the merits of the parties of the Chicago-north side bootlegging wars between Al Capone and  Bugsie  Moran. 
In South East Asia are two major dictatorships and two smaller dictatorships. I say this with some grief in the case of Vietnam. I think that I was the first member of this Parliament to visit Vietnam. I was certainly opposed to our own warlike activities in that country. None of the parties respects the human rights of its own people. There is scant, if any, respect for human rights in the Soviet Union, or in China, or in Vietnam or in the previous and, I should imagine, present regimes in Cambodia. I do not believe that any government that does not respect the human rights of its own citizens is going to respect the human rights of the citizens of any other country any more. I think that is what we are finding. These countries do not respect the human rights of other countries. 
How outrageous are the statements that the Chinese government is now making that it is going into Vietnam to teach Vietnam a lesson. It is a punitive war. These are the sorts of things that were denounced in the British Parliament in the 1850s by people like Gladstone. He denounced punitive missions being undertaken against some tribe that had engaged in an insurrection whereby the sepoys were sent to kill the Khan and his supporters. If one talks about imperialism, I do not think that one could find a more classic example of it than one sees in South East Asia. If  Senator Baume  asks me what we ought to do about that, the only thing I can suggest is that we stay out of it. If it makes us feel happier, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  has said, to offer some helpful advice, to say 'Please do not be nasty, remember that goodness is better than nastiness because goodness is nicer than nastiness', or a few things like that to cheer us up, by all means let us do it. But if we are talking seriously about what our Government ought to be doing, I suggest that we not identify ourselves with any of the parties to these disputes because none of them is following democratic principles or practices and each of them, for whatever purpose, is in favour of inflicting its regime on people who do not want it. That is the only suggestion that I have to make about South East Asia, deplorable as it is. The only subsidiary suggestion that I would make is that we act in concert with the democratic countries that do, in fact, exist in Asia, to see that they are not mocked, scorned and weakened, and that their democratic systems are supported. 
There are democracies in Asia. We often hear romantic stories about how wonderful it is in China. We have been hearing them for years. Very few people have ever spoken about how wonderful it is in India, the country with the second greatest population in the world. Although many Indians live in penury India has been able, with all of its vicissitudes- the problems with  Mrs Gandhi  and the emergency- retain a free Press, free elections and freedom of assembly. I know that the argument sometimes used is 'Yes, but the water supply is not as good in Calcutta as it is alleged to be in Canton'. That is quite irrelevant because democracy is not a means to an end, it is an end in itself. You do not have democracy in order to get better water supplies; you have democracy for the sake of having it. In India there is democracy. In Sri Lanka there is democracy. In both Malaysia and Singapore, with all their faults, there are at least elements of democracy. It is to the advantage of not only humanity generally but also Australia as a nation to see that those countries that do follow a democratic system are given support so that they do not themselves subsequently become the victims of the depradations of their autocratic neighbours, whoever they happen to be and whatever phoney branch of Marxism or Leninism they claim for the moment to be representing. 
If a suggestion were sought of me by  Senator Baume  concerning Africa, I would say that in regard to both South Africa and Rhodesia we have dragged our feet for many years. We made no effort to apply the sort of pressure that should have been applied to both countries to ensure a dramatic change in their race relations policies, policies which to varying degrees have been cruelly oppressive of the great mass of their people. But now, for whatever reason, we find that there is a sudden panic. We suddenly find that in the case of Rhodesia, which I notice the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and everybody else, apart from  Senator Sheil,  on the Government side in both houses, refers to loyally as Zimbabwe, efforts have been made by not only the illegal Prime Minister,  Mr Smith,  not only by the representative of the chieftains, Chief Chirau, but also by two long-standing advocates- very brave advocates I would suggest- and leaders of African independence, certainly people who could not be described as Uncle Toms, Bishop Muzorewa and the Reverend  Mr Sithole,  to come to some sort of peaceable agreement. 
They have not been able to carry with them other parties, other leading members of the African national movement within Rhodesia or Zimbabwe- the so-called Patriotic Front- but I put it to honourable senators that surely it ought to be a policy of the Australian Government, if it is concerned about stability, if it is concerned about saving people's lives, if it is concerned about the avoidance of some international conflagration, that a peaceful settlement be obtained within Rhodesia or Zimbabwe. I know that we cannot go this alone. I know that Australia alone cannot suddenly intervene in Zimbabwe. We are not in any position to do that but presumably we at least have some influence with those powers that can do this sort of thing, and however much or little influence we have the best that we can do is to exert it. 
I suggest that we ought to be making greater efforts with the Patriotic Front to see whether it would be prepared to talk to the parties to the internal settlement. I asked a question the other day- if it has been answered I have not yet seen the answer- about whether there had been any protests about the shooting down of an Air Rhodesia airliner by those members of the Patriotic Front who support  Mr Nkomo.  This was an outrage; in any sense it was an outrage that somebody should shoot down an airliner full of people, killing the occupants and then boasting of it, even making some sort of joke of it to the effect that 'We thought General Walls would be on it so he is at fault for not catching the plane'. Certainly, if Smith did it he would be condemned, and justifiably so. Anybody who did that ought to be condemned, even  Mr Nkomo,  with whom our Prime Minister seems to have achieved some sort of rapport. We ought to protest to him. It is of no use to say that it is just one form of terrorism; that there are also other forms such as depriving people of their voting rights and sending police into settlements. I would not deny this is so but whether that is so or not, it does not avoid the fact that the shooting down of an airliner full of civilian passengers is an unmitigated outrage and ought to be described as such to the people who did it. We ought to make clear to the Patriotic Front that we deplore this sort of thing; that we will not sponsor its candidacy to take over the government of its country if it regards that as a proper way of conducting its affairs. 
Turning to South Africa, I assure honourable senators that I have no reason to be sympathetic towards the present government of that country. I do not think that it can last. I believe that its policies, apart from being wrong, have been silly and are bound to end in disaster of one form or another. I do not think that there is any question about that. Various resolutions have been adopted about apartheid, with which in itself I do not agree. I have been a member of the antiapartheid movement for about the last 20 years. But I have not heard from this Government, or from any of the Western governments, whom we regard from time to time as our mentors, any proposition ever put to the South African Government as to the minimum that would be acceptable before we would allow it to resume some sort of a place amongst the nations of the world. It may be that what we put would be unacceptable to South Africa but at least we would have put it. Merely carrying resolutions condemning apartheid, singling one country out for its deprivation of human rights while doing nothing whatsoever about Uganda, for example, smacks of humbug. It is worse than that; it is weakness. 
It is apparent to anybody that the reason we are now adopting this position with regard to South Africa, after having been its tacit supporter for decades, is not that we have made any moral judgment, or strategic or even long-term tactical evaluation of the situation, but that we know that more countries are condemning the South Africans than are supporting them and we have to be in the swim or we might miss an invitation to somebody's cocktail party. It is almost as crude as that. What it is that we are asking the government of South Africa to Ethiopia how far do we want it to go? How quickly do we want it to go as far as we want it to go? We have said not a word about that. There is always mention of how we deplore this and deplore that and how we hope that there will be a peaceful settlement, but what have we given any South African government to go on? Nothing whatsoever. I say that. I can assure honourable senators, as an opponent of any form of racial discrimination or apartheid. 
Also within Africa- as I mentioned earlier- a conflict is taking place in Ethiopia which could be fairly described as virtual genocide against the Eritrean people. There has been a remarkable silence on that conflict. Certainly, and I do not want to sound like an advocate of the South Africans, if the South African government were doing anything remotely resembling what the Ethiopian government is doing we would be jumping up and down 24 hours a day on the question. We would be writing letters all around the place and carrying resolutions and banners, and sending items to the United Nations. But apparently we are blithely unaware of it when our major traditional opponent, in view of what the Government has said in the past and apparently is still saying, is very keenly interested indeed. The Soviet Union is heavily involved in Ethiopia, as is East Germany- in the same way as they were heavily involved, and probably still are, in Angola and Mozambique. 
Certainly, the Soviet Union does not content itself with writing a letter to the editor if it does not like what is happening in Eritrea; it sends in troops. They are very tough troops.  Senator Tate  and I were informed the other day that one of the functions of the Soviet troops is to act as a back-up to the Ethiopian forces which have been sent in against the Eritreans. We were told that among the Ethiopian peasants who are sent into the front line are conscripts, that many of them have had minimal training and that they are provided with minimal arms. The Russians are posted behind them and when they retreat from the Eritrean nationalists the Russians open Are on them in order to drive them back into the attack. They are doing that; yet we are doing nothing about it. We do not even mention it. A vague glossing-over mention is made of the fact that there are problems in the Horn of Africa but we hope that good sense will prevail. Our 
Government is not the sort that wants to be nasty to anybody. This Government, which was responsible for young Australians being killed in Vietnam only a few years ago, suddenly seems to have lost interest in all of these great issues. It has no interest whatsoever; no policy. It is a forlorn, weak, wishy-washy government which staggers along from day to day wondering what the next editorial in the London  Observer  or the Washington  Post  will say so that it can adopt that as its foreign policy. 
-I am not suggesting gunboats at all. I am suggesting that we adopt a clear position in opposition to foreign intervention in any of the African countries. No, I certainly am not suggesting gunboats, but I certainly am suggesting that we at least make a statement on the subject. I am not suggesting that we should be as concerned about our interests as the Russians are about theirs and actually do something physical about the situation. However, I would have thought that we could at least mention it at the United Nations; we could at least make mention of it in an important foreign policy statement such as the one which has been brought down today. 
What we are also seeing at the present time, despite the United Nations Charter and despite the constitution of the United Nations, is an acceptance of the doctrine that other countries are entitled to intervene in the internal affairs of countries whose policies they do not like. I do not want to rake up issues that occurred in Europe during the 1950s and the 1960s, but at the present time we are seeing two such episodes taking place. One of them is the Vietnamese intervention in Cambodia and the other is the Tanzanian intervention in Uganda. As our former colleague, the Honourable Kim Beazley, said of the Cambodian Government, it may well be that through its behaviour it had lost all moral right to exist. I think that is an argument which could well be made. It is doubtful whether, since the Nazis, there has been anything much more barbaric than the genocide of its own people which took place under the previous Cambodian regime. Certainly I do not think very many people would find much to emulate in the Government of Field Marshal Idi Amin Dada, V.C., the  President  of Uganda. 
In both of these matters we see neighbouring countries unilaterally deciding to intervene to change the government of their neighbour- the Vietnamese in the case of Cambodia and the 
Tranzanians in the case of Uganda. Both of those countries were acting completely contrary to the United Nations Charter. How can one take seriously the decisions of the United Nations when nothing happens following such gross breaches of its Charter? Again we hear no comment whatsoever from the Australian Government about the situation. Does the Government believe that the Tanzanians are entitled to intervene in Uganda? What does the Government say about the situation? What is its position? We are given no idea whatsoever. 
In closing my remarks I suggest that the Government ought to have a fresh look at its whole approach to foreign affairs. When we look around the world at the present time we find very few countries which have political systems which can be described as in any way democratic. By democratic' I mean societies in which the people of a country are able freely to choose their parliament or their government, are able freely to express their opinions, have freedom of speech, freedom of assembly and the right to form political parties, and have the other basic democratic values. I believe that we have a moral responsiblity to align ourselves with all of those democratic countries whenever we can, to make it clear that democracy is important to us not only domestically but also internationally. We have to make it clear that, whether or not we like the economic policy or the tariff policy of a country or whether a country has nationalised oil or denationalised oil, provided it is a democratic country which has some respect for human rights it is a country with which the ought to be aligned. At the same time, doubtless there are countries which do not have a democratic system but with which, for some economic reason or for some other reason, the Australian Government has to have an alliance or some sort of treaty arrangement. We can have such a treaty arrangement but at the same time we should make it clear that we deplore the deprivation of human rights which may take place within that country. 
I do not believe that that constitutes an unjustifiable interference in the domestic affairs of other countries. I think that we are entitled to make judgments in relation to the merits of other systems of government, just as any other country is entitled to make judgments in relation to the merits of the systems of government of other countries with which it has to deal. I do not believe that we ought to be basing our foreign policy solely on economic motives. That is what was done in relation to Iran, with disastrous results. By basing our approach to the Government in Iran on what served the short term economic interests of the United States and other Western countries, we finished up with the debacle with which we are now faced. 
I suggest also that, despite what many people think, the great conflicts that take place in the world are ideological conflicts; they are not economic conflicts. No sensible German economist, geographer or historian could have supported the lunatic policies which were carried out by Hitler under the Nazi regime. I think one should look at what happened in Nazi Germany because a study of that can be very revealing in regard to the lengths of absurdity to which human behaviour can go. The sort of nonsense that was carried on is exemplified by the fact that Einstein's relativity theories were regarded as a Jewish science and therefore something not to be studied. The consequence of that, fortunately, was that the Germans did not build an atom bomb before the end of the war. 
Nonetheless, despite all of this nonsense, the ideology of so-called National Socialism, of Nazism, in the middle of Hitler's career probably appealed to the overwhelming majority of the German people. We are finding a sort of pseudo or phoney Marxism or MarxismLeninism having an appeal to all sorts of people around the world at the present time. In my view, we ought to be putting forward the proposition that the ideology to which we subscribe is an ideology of democracy, of human rights. Doubtless there are great difficulties in consistently applying such a policy to our international relations; but, however, unsuccessful such a course of conduct or such an underlying principle of foreign policy may be, it certainly could not be any less successful than those policies which we have followed over the past 20 years. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, relates to the matter which was the subject of an earlier question by  Senator Puplick.  In view of the fact that the  President  of the South West African People 's Organisation has declared that Australia would be unacceptable as a country to take part in the United Nations supervision of the elections in 
Namibia, does the Minister not agree that this indicates a very serious collapse of Australian foreign policy insofar as Australia, through its actions in the past, through its opposition to the South African Government's proposals for elections within South West Africa, had shown implicitly that it supported the policies of SWAPO and has been rewarded by being declared unacceptable as a supervisory force by the leadership of SWAPO. Can the Minister give any assurances to the Parliament that the same recognition would be given to Australia 's efforts by the Patriotic Front in the event of similar developments occurring at some time in the future in Zimbabwe? Can the Minister explain to the Senate exactly what it is we are trying to do and why it is that whatever it is we are trying to do is proving to be so lamentably unsuccessful? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health whether she is aware that advertisements are at present appearing on commercial television advertising the wares of a firm of cigarette and tobacco merchants, the House of Dunhill, and that although no reference is made to cigarettes reference is made to the various more esoteric accoutrements of the vice of smoking so that it would be clear to any reasonably intelligent observer that what is in fact being advertised is cigarettes. Will the Minister ask her colleague the Minister for Health to examine this question to see whether the spirit, if not the letter, of the requirement that there be no advertising of cigarettes on the electronic media is being complied with? 
I do not wish to speak at great length on the substance of the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill at this stage. There will be an opportunity later when we are in Committee to deal in detail with the various matters which the Opposition will be raising. But there are some general observations which I ought to make about this Bill. The Australian Labor Party does not accept that this Bill is a satisfactory measure for controlling the security services of this country, in particular the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. I intend to confine my brief remarks to the discussion of the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill and not speak to the other matters which are being dealt with concurrently this evening. We believe, as I have said, that this Bill is very unsatisfactory and that many amendments will be necessary. Whilst saying that, I appreciate that there are considerable problems in drafting any legislation which is to provide for the organisation, management and operations of a secret intelligence service, which is in fact what the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation is, at least insofar as domestic security is concerned. 
There is something fundamentally undemocratic about the existence of any secret state organisation. The nature of democracy is that it is a publicly observable process, that decisions are made as a result of information made available to the public, debated by the public and dealt with ultimately by the elected representatives of the public. Whenever there is a secret organisation, whatever it may be, which has as its purpose interference with the lives of citizens, for whatever reason, insofar as this is done there is of necessity and by definition a departure from democratic practice. 
Having said that, it is not the view of the Australian Labor Party that it follows that there should not be any secret intelligence organisation such as ASIO. We live in a world in which there are people who represent other countries, various political organisations either domestic or foreign, who themselves engage in secret activities dedicated to inflict violence and harm unlawfully upon other countries. It is necessary that there should be secret organisations to watch the activities of those people and to report to some responsible person about their activities. There can be no argument about that any more than there can be any argument that all policemen should wear uniforms and there should be no plain-clothes detectives. There should be. But the problem which we have to deal with and the problem which we believe has not been dealt with satisfactorily by the Bill which is before us now is the problem of securing two ends which need to be attained when there is a secret service within a democratic society. 
The first of those objectives is to ensure public supervision of a secret activity. By definition again, this is an extraordinarily difficult task, that the public or the representatives of the public should be supervising the activities of people whose operations by their very nature need to be secret. The second problem is the accountability to the public of a secret arm of the state. Again, almost by definition, it seems practically impossible, and certainly extraordinarily difficult, to have any watertight, completely satisfactory arrangement whereby a secret organisation can be accountable to the public. I think I would be speaking for most members of the Australian Labor Party when I say that at least this Bill, insofar as it embodies the recommendations of  Mr Justice  Hope, will bring about considerable improvements on the law as it has stood up till now. We still do not believe that it goes anywhere near far enough. 
Over the years the Opposition has had many criticisms to make of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. Whatever criticisms may or may not be made of the actions that  Senator Murphy-  as he then was when he was AttorneyGeneral took with regard to ASIO, I believe that they become largely explicable and understandable when one recalls the sort of treatment which members of the Australian Labor Party and people with whom they were associated received for some 20 years from members of ASIO. 

 Senator Missen by way of interjection a few minutes ago referred to the fact that  Mr Justice  Hope himself in his report had referred to the leaking of information from ASIO to the Press. This is something that was established in  Mr Justice  Hope's inquiry. It is very difficult to prove these matters and I certainly do not wish to make any allegations. But I can say that I am certainly satifed in my own mind that, in the period before 1972, information was made available by ASIO to politicians and to people engaged in political activity concerning members of the Australian Labor Party, supporters of the Australian Labor Party and opponents of the Government in order to discredit and damage them. I believe that it did happen. I certainly think that anybody who reads  Mr Justice  Hope's report with any degree of intelligence will know that that suggestion is implicit in  His  Honour's report. 
Certainly a record such as that has been such that it has prompted many people- people who were otherwise most reasonable- to believe that ASIO itself should have been abolished and possibly a new organisation altogether should have been created, if indeed there should be any organisation at all. We are not saying that but we are saying that there ought to be as much scrutiny as there possibly can be, within the limits of the efficiency which is necessary, of such a body. We have seen recently in a number of countries the excesses- and I am talking of democratic or at least partly democratic or parliamentary countries- which a secret organisation such as ASIO, an organisation constituted for the same purposes as ASIO, can commit. 
We have seen in the United States of America where all the scrutiny which is available to the members of the United States Senate, the members of the United States House of Representatives and the United States courts has been unable to prevent completely improper conduct both by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and by the Central Intelligence Agency. I am not a monomaniac or paranoid about these matters. I do not think one can blame the FBI or the CIA for everything that has happened everywhere. I certainly think that there are a number of people who have their own reasons and quite dishonest reasons for alleging that they did, but the fact remains- and it is quite evident and everybody knows it- that a large number of instances particularly during the administration of President Nixon, but not only during that administration, the FBI and the CIA were used for completely improper purposes and sometimes without the knowledge of the United States Administration. 
-A great deal was only exposed by the Freedom of Information Act. I agree with that statement completely. Some was exposed by other people who did not rely on the Freedom of Information Act. I do not want to go into it now but from some recent experiences I have been having, I am not entirely sure that the United States Freedom of Information Act is quite as effective as some of its enthusiastic admirers might believe, well intentioned though it is. We have also seen in South Africa just recently- and South Africa at least so far as its white population is concerned has elements of being a democratic society; it certainly has a parliament- the Bureau of State Security in that country has apparently been acting without the knowledge of at least some Ministers and apparently without the knowledge of the present Prime Minister. Large sums of money were being spent and all sorts of activities were engaged in by the South African Bureau of State Security, by General Van den Bergh and others without the authority of the Government. Clearly we have to try to prevent - 
I do not think that I am pre-judging the issue. I would have thought that General Van den Bergh 's removal from office would mean that, if I am pre-judging it, the Prime Minister of South Africa is also prejudging it. I would have thought that the Prime Minister of South Africa would have more reason for trying to defend his own security organisation- I would do anyway- than  Senator Rae  would. If the South African Prime Minister felt that it was necessary for the General to leave his service, I find it rather strange that  Senator Rae  would tell us from his knowledge that the South African Prime Minister was wrong, although I am not sure that that is what the honourable senator was suggesting. 
I am suggesting it could happen here, yes, if there are not proper supervisions- yes indeed! Only if there is adequate legislation to cover this possibility will we stop such things from occurring. I am sure that there were many people in the United States of America who would have said that it would have been impossible that the CIA or the FBI would have done the things that it did. It turned out subsequently that they did do them. That is one of the reasons why the United States Congress has endeavoured through measures such as the 
Freedom of Information Act to take steps to prevent such things happening again in the future. 
What I am suggesting is that the amendments which will be moved by the Australian Labor Party should be carried. That is what I suggest ought to be done. I think that there are three main - 
If you will just listen, I will tell you,  Senator Bonner.  Do not be impatient. I know that you are anxious to know what I have to say. I will come to it in due course. You are bubbling over with enthusiasm. 
I will accept your correction,  Senator Evans.  There are three main matters which the Opposition amendments go towards correcting. The first is the removal from the minds of the Australian people of the suspicion that ASIO is acting in a partisan manner in the interests of the Government. That is certainly a suspicion- indeed more than a suspicion- that many Australians felt up to 1972. It certainly is, I believe, much more than a suspicion in my own case. There are amendments which relate to discussions between the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition in regard to the appointment of the DirectorGeneral of security which we in the Australian Labor Party believe are essential if we are to have a bipartisan policy on security. If there is not a bipartisan policy on security, if there is a party or a group of parties within Australia representing about half of the Australian people who believe that ASIO is not acting properly, that ASIO is a weapon that is being used against them, we will have an ineffective ASIO. We of the Labor Party wish to see an effective ASIO but we wish to see an ASIO which is effective in doing the things which it is supposed to be doing. One way in which we believe that that can be done is by having the consultation which we call for between the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition. 
The second proposition which we put forward and which I believe is a major one is that there should be security within ASIO itself. We believe that the same limitation ought to be applied to the information which ASIO divulges to State police special branches as is applied to ASIO. There is an appropriate amendment. It is no use having a tight secure ASIO if it is providing information to some other law enforcement agencies which are making available in a partisan manner or in a manner which is dangerous- and properly dangerous- to an individual, information which should not be divulged. The third amendment, which I believe again is a most important point, is the provision, which we hope to see inserted within the Bill before it becomes an Act, that the financial activities of ASIO should be subject to the scrutiny of the Auditor-General. Had that provision applied in South Africa, for example, there would not have been the possibilities for  Dr Rhoodie,  General Van den Bergh and various others to have done what they are alleged to have done. If there is this power for the Auditor-General, not to go through every cheque butt and every receipt but at least to have an overall supervision on the expenditure of ASIO, we believe that this in itself will be a tremendous safeguard for the security of this country. 
On the whole, the Australian Labor Party welcomes, in some respects, this Bill. I do not wish to contradict myself by talking about 'on the whole ' and 'in some respects ', but we do not welcome it enough to support it. We welcome it insofar as it is a considerable improvement on what has gone before, but we believe it can only be satisfactory, it can only do the job which it is supposed to do, it can only act as something which benefits the people of Australia rather than dividing the people of Australia, if the amendments which we propose are adopted by this Senate. 
Debate interrupted. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Transport seen newspaper reports to the effect that both the New York City Council and the Greater London Council have the intention of reintroducing tram services into their respective cities as a means of combating the present energy crisis? Will he make inquiries into the nature of the proposals of both of these cities in regard to what savings of energy they contemplate will result from the reintroduction of trams? I appreciate that the reintroduction of tram services in our cities is a State matter. Nonetheless, does the Minister not agree that this is a matter on which the Federal Government could be of assistance to State governments in view of the present pressing economic crisis that faces Australia, as it does the United States and the United Kingdom? 
-Does the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs not agree that the treaty signed this week by the  President  of Egypt and the Prime Minister of Israel is one of the most encouraging events in international relations for the past 30 years and that any efforts taken by any powers or parties to destroy this settlement, however many problems may remain unresolved, ought to be resisted vigorously? Will the Australian Government not confine itself to issuing statements of a general nature, supporting the treaty that has been signed, but in fact engage in an energetic campaign with those countries and in those international forums in which it has some influence to see that other countries also are made aware of Australia's strong support for the principles of the treaty? Does the Minister not agree that if countries such as Australia do not take strong action on this matter the fragile peace that has been achieved could be destroyed, thus involving considerable danger not only for the countries of the Middle East but also for other countries, including Australia? 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs seen reports describing the barbaric treatment to which the former Prime Minister of Pakistan,  Mr Bhutto,  is allegedly being subjected in the condemned cell he now occupies? Has the Australian Embassy to Pakistan been able to verify or contradict these reports? If these reports appear to be true, can the Australian Government, in addition to the appeals for clemency it has made on behalf of  Mr Bhutto,  draw to the attention of the Government of Pakistan that such treatment of a condemned person is unacceptable to this country? 
I believe that it is appropriate that this motion should be carried by the Senate not only as an expression of the Senate 's grief at the death of a man who until recently was a distinguished national leader and to show that the Senate deplores the action of the Government which has brought about his judicial murder but also to draw attention to what seems to be becoming an ever-increasing phenomenon in modern political life, that is, the murder of people who take political positions. It is only a few years since the former Prime Minister of Turkey was executed by the government which succeeded him. It is only a few weeks since the former Prime Minister of Iran was executed by a government which succeeded the regime to which he belonged. It is only a year or so since a former Prime Minister of Italy was murdered by an organisation claiming to hold some political objectives. It is less than a week since a prominent member of the Opposition of the British Parliament was murdered by another organisation claiming to have some political objectives. 
All these actions have been works of political terrorism- in some cases by governments, in some cases by people who do not constitute a government. It seems to amuse some of the journalists in the gallery but I do not find it an amusing subject. I believe that this is a matter which should be of concern to this Parliament- I still see that the gallery finds it very funnybecause it concerns a question which confronts all of the civilised world, that is, that violence is being increasingly resorted to by those who are not prepared to allow their people to engage in political discussion and free political debate. These people are against the whole of the civilised traditions of the peoples of this world. 

 Mr Bhutto was a remarkable man. He was one of the most remarkable national leaders in the world. He shared much in common with  Mr Nehru,  the former Prime Minister of India. He was a product of both his Eastern society and also Western society. He had careers of great distinction both at Oxford and at the University of California. Professor H. R. Trevor-Roper, the historian, described him as one of the most outstanding students who had studied under him. It reflects the sort of person  Mr Bhutto  was that the first guest of state in Pakistan after he became head of government was Professor TrevorRoper not some visiting potentate but a scholar.  Mr Bhutto  was a scholarly man who sacrificed himself to work within his own country. He was removed from the office to which he was elected by a substantial majority of the Pakistan voters in a violent coup by the people who now constitute the Pakistan Government. 
I do not wish to appear too easily irritated but it is disturbing that some members of the Press Gallery laugh all through a debate of this kind in the Senate. I think this reflects great discredit on them and it is a matter which the Senate ought to consider. If the matter is so amusing to journalists they should leave the gallery while it is discussed. I do not think they are the people to be reporting the proceedings of this Parliament.  Mr Bhutto's  trial took place in circumstances in which one can only say that his future well-being was in severe jeopardy. Reference has been made already to the proceedings which took place within the courts. Some extraordinary activities took place so far as shuffling judges back and forth but even worse the martial law administrator, the  President  of Pakistan, maintained a constant running fire of comments on the guilt of  Mr Bhutto.  Documents prejudging the issue were circulated to all of us by the Embassy of Pakistan. To have martial law administrators comment on the alleged guilt of an accused person in a country which is ruled by martial law can be regarded only as a severe abuse of justice. This makes a mockery of the judicial processes which were allegedly followed by Pakistan. 
I do not know and I do not think that any honourable senator knows whether  Mr Bhutto  committed the acts which he was alleged to have committed. Certainly there is very great doubt regarding this matter in view of the way the proceedings were conducted. I think that it is appropriate that we should express our protests by the Senate carrying a motion today. This matter concerns all of us, not only Pakistan. It is a serious, tragic and disturbing matter and all members of the Opposition appreciate the attitude adopted by the Government in facilitating the passage of this motion. 
I wish to associate myself with what has been said about the late Frank Stewart. As a member of this Parliament, he was conspicuous for a number of reasons. He was a highly principled man who subscribed to a basic Labor philosophy which came, I believe, from very deeply held moral principles. They were very largely the principles of the Roman Catholic Church, but they were not only the principles of that Church. He had very strong views about what was proper moral conduct and what constituted immoral conduct. In my view, he worked to secure political objectives insofar as they accorded with those moral precepts to which he held. At the same time, despite holding these very strong opinions- opinions which he was prepared to put forward strenuously without any regard to whether they would advantage or disadvantage his own career- he was not a person who bore personal grudges against those who were of a different opinion. 
I had known him for 14 years. I first came to know him 14 years ago when I was elected to the Senate. It was a time when within the Parliamentary Labor Party there were much sharper ideological disagreements than there are at present and he and I were at that time at different ends of the spectrum within the Labor  Party. In latter  years we tended to agree more. I do not know whether this was because of his moving to the left or my moving to the right, or both, but during the whole of this period there was never any personal animus in anything which Frank Stewart did. Indeed, I became even more closely associated with him during the period of the Labor Government when, to my surprise, in 1975 I found that he had been appointed as the Minister assisting me as the Minister for Social Security and the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. I faced this situation with some trepidation because Frank Stewart was both older than I and senior to me in service in the Parliament and in the Ministry. But no one could have been more helpful, more co-operative or of greater assistance than Frank Stewart was. This was despite his many other duties as Minister Assisting the Treasurer in which, as  Senator Wriedt  has said, he performed work which can be described only as invaluable in the Federal Cabinet and in the portfolio which he had to manage. He was a man of very great courage and was an asset and credit to this Parliament. Although no doubt his wife and his children must be feeling very great grief at his early death, I believe at the same time they should be very proud that they had such a fine man as a husband and as a father. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs and follows the question asked earlier tonight by  Senator Young  concerning the election in Rhodesia/Zimbabwe. As I understood the Minister's answer, it was to the effect that the Government did not believe that there would be peace in that area until such time as all parties agreed and that Australia should show caution in dealing with this matter. Are we to take his statement that there will not be peace until all parties agree to mean that even if it were established that a majority of eligible citizens within Rhodesia/Zimbabwe voted in the election and that a majority voted for the party of Bishop Muzorewa, the Australian Government would not accept that government as a valid one as long as any group of armed insurgents was prepared to bring down that government? Insofar as he said that we should show caution in this matter, did he really mean caution or did he mean procrastination until such time as the Government has discovered what is the policy of the United States Administration on this question? Will the Minister not agree that in relation to this matter the Government and other Western governments will need to say soon and quickly whether or not they believe that a valid election has been held? Can we expect that a 

<graphic href="081232197905014_19_2.jpg"></graphic>

statement will be brought down in the Parliament by the Minister for Foreign Affairs before the Parliament rises for the winter recess? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware that a statute of limitations will come into effect shortly in the Federal Republic of Germany whereby persons who could be guilty of war crimes will not be liable for prosecution? Does the Minister not agree that if any persons who were guilty of these most monstrous crimes were to escape justice on the grounds of such a technical reason as the statute of limitations, this would be an affront to the conscience of civilised people? Does the Government have any views on this matter? If so, has it made these views known to the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science and the Environment. It arises through my having been shaken out of my usual apathy on Saturday afternoon in Perth by an earthquake. Is the Minister satisfied that his Department has available to it sufficient means of assessing the possibilities of further earthquakes or earth tremors in Western Australia, part of which does appear to lie on a fault? Is he satisfied that particularly Commonwealth property in Western Australia is so constructed as to be safe in the event of a future earthquake or earth tremor? Does he believe that adequate work is being undertaken altogether by the Department of Science and the Environment to inform people in Western Australia of future dangers and the best means of avoiding them? 
-The Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs will recall that on 8 May last 1 asked whether the Australian Government proposed to make any representations to the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany regarding the application of the statute of limitations to those persons who have been accused or may be accused of war crimes. The Minister expressed his personal wish that the statute should not apply, and undertook to inform the Senate as to what action the Government had taken or might take. I understand that the Minister is now in a position to give an answer to that question. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of reports from Ghana, where it appears that a group of armed persons has seized power and has now described itself as the government of the country, and where the fate of members of the previous government seems at least uncertain. Although the persons who lead the new regime in Ghana apparently have announced that they will be holding some form of election, will the Government insist that the same criteria be applied to Ghana as are being insisted upon in the case of Rhodesia and that no recognition will be granted to the new government until such time as internationally supervised, free elections have been held in Ghana? If this is not the case and recognition is granted to Ghana during the period that the Parliament is in recess, for the benefit of those of us who find these events a little difficult to follow, will the Government prepare a list of those countries where a change of regime can be recognised only after the holding of internationally supervised, free elections and those countries where this is not necessary? 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs seen statements which are reported to have been made by Prince Norodom Sihanouk in which he asked that the United Nations declare vacant the seat of Kampuchea in that organisation and that recognition be granted neither to the present Vietnamese supported government in Phnom Penh nor to the refugee government of Pol Pot, and asked also that the United Nations supervise the holding of free elections in Kampuchea? Does the Minister know whether the Australian Government has any policy on Kampuchea? 
I  present the following petition from 64 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1 978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate ' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Research into Congenital Abnormalities in Children 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I wish to speak briefly on this matter. I think that this is an important matter. I do not know whether many members of this Parliament or of the Australian public think that it is an important matter when we are discussing other vexed questions such as income tax and the price of petrol, but I submit to you,  Mr Deputy President,  that this is a matter of greater importance than any other issue that has been brought to the attention of the Parliament during the past 12 months. I do no wish to speak for long and I do not wish to go through the statement from the Lusaka conference sentence by sentence or even paragraph by paragraph. I just wish to make some general observations on what was the most significant part of the discussions which took place in Lusaka among the Commonwealth Heads of Government and their representatives. That was the discussion which took place regarding the future of what was formerly known as Rhodesia, then as Zimbabwe-Rhodesia and now, apparently as a result of a decision by Bishop Muzorewa, as Zimbabwe. 
It is a very difficult question to debate in the general climate of discussion that takes place in Australia. It is one of those issues where one usually is described as being a supporter of one extreme partisan group or another. If one tries to debate this issue in a manner sympathetic to the present situation in Zimbabwe one can find oneself described as being some sort of white supremacist, a supporter of Smith, a supporter of apartheid or a supporter of colonialism. By a corollary, if one wishes to oppose racism, colonialism, imperialism and all those other evils about which one hears so much apparently in the minds of some, one is obliged to declare oneself a supporter of the so-called Patriotic Front and the front line States and to condemn what has happened over recent months within Zimbabwe. I do not think that this is sensible or helpful or anything but a thoroughly dangerous way of examining this situation. 
There cannot be any doubt that what has occurred in Zimbabwe is in many ways the natural consequence of whatever happens when a small minority of people attempt to impose their will on the great mass of the country of which they have become the occupiers. I do not think, as we look back now on the colonial expansion of the nineteenth century, that anybody could have had any doubt that in due course a conflict- very frequently a bloody conflict- would be the consequence of the colonialisation of Africa, Asia and Latin America by European powers. I do not think there is any doubt that if we could turn back the clock we would probably say that it would have been a far, far better thing if Cecil Rhodes and those people from the British colonies in southern Africa had never moved into what they constituted as Rhodesia. I would not dispute that. But the fact is that they did go there and they did establish a colony which subsequently acquired some sort of independence. Ever since they did that efforts have been made by the black majority of that country to obtain independence. This desire of the African people for independence was resisted- for the most part, foolishly- by the white settlers within that country, culminating in what happened in 1965 when the Government of  Mr Smith,  the Rhodesia Front Government of what was then 
Southern Rhodesia, made its so-called unilateral declaration of independence and subsequently established the Republic of Rhodesia. 
The course which that Government followed within that country could not be described fairly as anything other than the policies of a racist government. The practices were racist. There was discrimination against the great mass of the people of what was then Rhodesia. That was bad. That was to be deplored. In fact  Mr Smith  and those people who constituted his Government acted unlawfully in their unilateral declaration of independence. Most members- I suppose even those who take the least interest in what has occurred- are aware of what has happened subsequently and that there were illegal activities by various black nationalist groups. Some months ago an agreement was made between the then Government of Rhodesia and the representatives of a very substantial group of African nationalists. The Reverend Ndabaningi Sithole, who for many years had been a conspicuous leader of the African nationalist movement, and Bishop Muzorewa, who had performed a similar role, agreed with  Mr Smith  and his Government to establish a new constitution under which elections were held. As I said earlier, I do not intend to labour all the details of that constitution or all the details of the events which followed that constitution. But it is an incontrovertible fact that elections took place and that whatever imperfections there may have been in that electoral process and in those elections, the majority of the people of Zimbabwe voted in those elections in reasonably fair circumstances. A government was constituted which does not have a white Prime Minister but has a black Prime Minister. It has not only a black Prime Minister but also a black nationalist Prime Minister in Bishop Muzorewa, a man with a long record of advocacy and activity on behalf of equality for the black people of that country. 
This has proved unacceptable to certain black nationalist organisations from Zimbabwe. It has proved unacceptable to the great majority, if not all, of the independent black African countries. Certainly, it would seem, it has been unacceptable to the majority of the member countries of the Commonwealth. The Conference has taken place and it led to the production of the report which the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  presented this afternoon. If I may express my own opinion- I do not claim to be speaking on behalf of anybody else- I believe that this is one of the most shocking, deplorable actions which has been taken by Western countries in the past decades. Not only is that the case; I also believe that the steps which were taken there are going to go down into history as having the same historical significance as what happened at Munich in 1938 at the time of the agreement - 

 - Senator Evans disagrees with me. He is entitled to do so. 

 -Senator Georges disagrees with me also. So, indeed, might the enure Senate. That is too bad. I intend to express my view on this matter whether the entire Senate or any other people disagree with me. I believe that the consequences of the decisions in Lusaka will be very similar to the consequences of what happened in Munich. Over the years people have made a habit of talking about an issue being another Munich or another act of appeasement. Generally I have not agreed with them. This, 1 believe, has all the characteristics of what happened in Munich. What did happen in Munich? Allegations were made that the Government of Czechoslovakia was improperly treating its German minority. It was; not savagely, in the way in which the German Reich treated minorities or, for that matter, even its own citizens. But there cannot be any question that it was a very unsatisfactory state of affairs that many Germans, a large number of them, were incorporated, very largely against their will, within the Republic of Czechoslovakia. 
Starting off with that premise, the unscrupulous, brutal leaders of Germany at that time, Hitler and the Nazis, took advantage of the situation. They took advantage of the well meaning dithering and cowardice of certain Western leaders and set out upon the destruction of Czechoslovakia. The attitude which Chamberlain and, to a lesser extent, Daladier and other Western leaders took at that time was, first of all, that there was some justice in the case; that there were imperfections within Czechoslovakia; that the Treaty of Versailles had not been correct in incorporating German inhabitants, predominantly of Sudetenland, within Czechoslovakia; and, more than that, that this was a way of obtaining peace, that sacrificing this small country- I think the words, if I may paraphrase them, of  Mr Chamberlain  at that time were: 'A little country a long way away which few of us know anything about'somehow or another would mean an end of the designs of Nazi Germany. It turned out that that was not the case. In fact the concessions which were made in allowing Czechoslovakia to be dismantled and destroyed made it easier for the Nazis to extend their influence. They made it easier for the Nazis to start the Second World War, with great advantages. 
I will come to them in due course.  Senator Evans  need not worry; if he wants me to take my time on this matter I am quite prepared to do so.  Senator Evans  has asked me who are my Zimbabwe Nazis. He asked whether Nkomo was one. No, I do not think Nkomo is a Nazi, but I do think- I hope that this will not provoke  Senator Evans  ' irritation- that the role which is being played by other Germans, this time from the so-called German Democratic Republic, within Africa and in other parts of the world, does have certain characteristics in common with those roles which the Nazis played in 1938. What these Germans, and Cubans, are doing with the co-operation of the Soviet Union within Africa is not fundamentally different from what the Nazis were doing. They are acting militarily to extend the influence of the Soviet Union by the brutal use of armed force, as has been clearly evidenced in, for example, Ethiopia and Eritrea. 
We are finding on the part of the Western countries an abnegation of responsibility and a total silence on this issue. One can well imagine what would be the case if Western armed forces were performing the same role in Africa as the armed forces of East Germany and Cuba are performing there at present. One remembers the hullabaloo which took place only recently when a small number of French troops were used in Zaire. Only a small number was involved, but there was public debate within France and throughout the rest of the world to the extent that those troops have now been withdrawn. Almost no debate has taken place over the presence of the Cuban and East German troops in Africa. In fact, they have been given virtually a free rein there. 
-I know; it is what I say. If  Senator Georges  believes that because  Mr Fraser  has made a statement it must be true, that is his opinion. I beg to differ with  Mr Fraser,  although I admire  Senator Georges'  loyalty to his Prime Minister. 
I have very substantial evidence on my side, I would say. I propose to deal now with a few other matters. 
No, indeed. I am glad that  Senator Baume  raised that question. I am in favour of the reservation of powers to a minority, not because I believe that if we were starting off in 1896 and constructing a new nation in Zimbabwe we would send out 200,000 Englishmen and say that they were to have some sort of veto right, however limited, within a constitution, but because I believe that if we have a situation in which there is a substantial number of people- although it is a small number it is a substantial number of people- who have all sorts of fears about their future, it is only fair and reasonable to expect that certain powers and certain guarantees will be given to them. If those people were not given those guarantees, whatever one might think of the morality of the matter, we would never have got any agreement. 
The fact is clear- I believe it should be clear to anybody- that if it had not been for the reservation of some powers to the white electors within Zimbabwe there would have been no agreement at all.  Mr Smith  would still be the Prime Minister of Rhodesia and I believe that he could still well have been the Prime Minister of Zimbabwe for another 10 years. The only reason that Bishop Muzorewa was able to become the Prime Minister of Zimbabwe was that there was an agreement whereby the white population of Rhodesia- a group with which I have never had any identification; nor have I expressed any great admiration for it; nor indeed have I spoken of it in the past in this place, I would have thought, in other than condemnatory terms- agreed, for the sake of peace, to enter into a constitutional arrangement whereby it forfeited majority rule to the black population but retained certain powers for the time being under a constitution which was subject to amendment. 
I think it is quite immoral for  Mrs Thatcher  or  Mr Fraser  or anybody else to call now on Bishop Muzorewa to repudiate an agreement which he made. If it had not been for that agreement he would not be in his present position. They are asking him to do a dishonourable thing. I think it is quite hypocritical of the British Governmentthis so-called 'Iron Lady',  Mrs Thatcher,  who now emerges as a corrugated iron lady- to call on Muzorewa to breach a solemn undertaking which was given at the time when he and Sithole and Smith and the others entered into the internal settlement which led to the present constitution. 
It is possible that there could be; I do not know. But I am not concerned about a white military backlash, although if there were one it certainly would be very serious. What I am concerned about is the approach which Western countries have adopted towards what has happened in Zimbabwe. I would defy any honourable senator- that includes  Senator Evans-  to produce the constitution of any country in the whole of Africa which is more democratic than the constitution of Zimbabwe. I would defy any honourable senator,  Mrs Thatcher, Mr Fraser,  the Leader of the Government in the Senate or anybody else to tell us about any elections which have been held in the whole of Africa which were more democratic than those which were held several months ago within Zimbabwe. 
-Senator Evans asks: So what?' I suppose that that is a fair enough question. It would seem to me that if one of the purposes of what we describe as the Western system of government is to sponsor democracy, then at least one of those factors which should be considered when one is examining the future of some country is how democratic that country is.  Senator Webster,  I am sorry. I have confused them. 
I beg  Senator Webster's  pardon. As  Senator Evans  is saying 'so what?', and indeed I suppose a number of people are saying 'so what?' the question is: What difference does it make whether a country is democratic or not? I presume that is the question. 
-Oh, indeed. That is precisely the point. I am very grateful to  Senator Evans  for introducing that point. It was because Chamberlain and Daladier were debating only Czechoslovakia in 1938, and not looking at the totality of what was happening in Europe, that they finished up in the mess that they were in in 1939. If they had been looking not only at Czechoslovakia, if they had not been looking only at the question of the Sudeten Germans and the imperfections of the Czechoslovak Constitution, but had also been looking at the whole situation of Europe and what would be the consequence of the destruction of Czechoslovakia, they would not have created for themselves the problems which subsequently followed. I believe that, contrary to what  Senator Evans  has said, if you are talking about what is happening in Zimbabwe, you do have to look at the whole of Africa. As I understand it, there are two objections to what has happened in Zimbabwe. First of all, there was the illegal unilateral declaration of independence by Smith. It was illegal. 
-No. I am sorry, senator, I have not forgotten it. 
Indeed , yes, it is a very special case, and it is going to be remembered as a very special case for a long time into the future. It was illegally constituted. But the British Government forfeited all right to intervene in the affairs of Zimbabwe when no military action was taken in 1965, when an act of rebellion was entered into by the government of what was then Rhodesia. At the same time there was also a disturbance in Anguila, a small island in the West Indies, and the British Government had no hesitation then in sending armed forces into Anguila in order to take action there. But nothing was done within Rhodesia. I think it is much too late, after 14 years, to talk about the legal rights of the Crown in Rhodesia- much too late indeed. But even if one does pay some cognisance to those legal rights of the Crown, they are not the only issues involved. Surely the whole debate that has been going on throughout the world about what has happened in Rhodesia is not an argument about the rights of the Crown and the powers of the Parliament of Southern Rhodesia as constituted in 1 965. 
Is that what people have been out demonstrating in the streets all around the world for? Is that what was agitating the mind of  Mr Andrew  Young, some act of lese-majeste against the Queen of England? Of course it was not. The accusation that was made against what was happening in Rhodesia or Zimbabwe during that period was that that was an undemocratic country. And that was right. It was an undemocratic country. That is why I was opposed to the Smith regime. That is why I believed that action ought to be taken against the Smith regime. That is why I believe all of us in this Parliament, at least officially, were in favour of the continued imposition of sanctions against Rhodesia during that period. But the situation has changed. Nowhere during the course of the matter we are now interested in- legalitiesnowhere during the course of that conference which took place in Lusaka was there any discussion of the Tanzanian invasion of Uganda. If  Senator Evans  is interested in legality, what does  Senator Evans  say about that? 
Are we to be told that an action that was taken by the Smith Government in Rhodesia in breach, it would seem, of the law, is somehow more important than the invasion of one country by its neighbour, two members of the Commonwealth? 
Indeed.  Senator Georges  says Uganda invaded Tanzania in the first place, but the Ugandan invasion of Tanzania was not brought up at the Lusaka conference either. If  Senator Georges  wishes to argue that it was Uganda which invaded Tanzania and not Tanzania which invaded Uganda, I do not want to get into an argument with him. The fact of the matter is that neither matter was brought up at the Lusaka conference. Clearly somebody invaded somebody else. Both of them were members of the Commonwealth, and whoever did the invading, nobody thought it was of sufficient importance to discuss at the conference at Lusaka. 
I was glad to see Idi Amin go. We all welcomed that. I am sure that even a Tanzanian occupation would be preferable to what was going on under Idi Amin. But the fact remains that there was an invasion of one Commonwealth country by another Commonwealth country. If anything would be illegal, I would have thought that that would have been illegal. But that was not mentioned at the Lusaka conference. Indeed, there is no mention of it in the statement. One might have thought that when you are only a few hundred miles away from Uganda and you have travelled from all around the world- you have even got  Mr Eggleton  there, with his expert knowledge of the Commonwealth, and in case someone had forgotten it I am sure it would have sprung into his mind- somebody during the course of the proceedings might have raised the matter and said something along these lines: Well, this is a superior law society or Bar Council that is meeting here today. We are dealing with legal problems, and I hope I will not be regarded as a quibbling or as a pettifogging probate lawyer, but how about the Tanzanian troops in Uganda?' But no, not one word. 
Why was there no word about that? It was because they were not interested in legalities. To suggest that this was some sort of legal conference, the friends of the constitution or something or other, with the greatest respect to  Senator Evans,  is palpable nonsense. The conference took place because the so-called Third World and the Soviet bloc have committed themselves to an extension of their influence in Africa, and the destruction of the government of Bishop Muzorewa would be one means of furthering those ends. 
It is very interesting indeed to notice that one of the other front runners in the stakes of national liberation, the People's Republic of China, has so far been studiously silent on this issue; studiously silent. Not one word has come from the foreign ministry of China about the appalling goings on of Bishop Muzorewa or about the valiant front line states and the heroic patriotic front. I would make a suggestion to you as to why the People's Republic of China has remained silent about this, and that is because it is more clearly able to foresee the international implications of what is happening there than the Iron Lady of Downing Street,  Mr Fraser  and  Mr Eggleton. 
Yes, of course they are sending arms. Everybody sends arms these days. That is nothing. 
-As  Senator O'Byrne  says, that does not say it is right. What emerges from this conference is very depressing indeed. First of all, in dealing with an issue which is supposed to be related to the fundamental rights of democracy, we find that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  visits the military dictator of Nigeria, apparently in order to obtain his approval. He is the leader of the government which has been responsible for some of the most horrendous - 
-No, I have not. No, indeed.  Senator Puplick  apparently places more reliance on those elections than he would on the elections in Zimbabwe. Yes indeed, there have been elections in Nigeria. I have noticed them. I have also noticed that there is to be a stay of proceedings before the elected officials actually take office. I had noted the elections, but at the time that  Mr Fraser  visited them in order to obtain his advice and counsel and inspiration on democratic questions, he was still the military dictator; a man who, along with others, was responsible for some of the most horrendous genocide which has been seen on this planet. He is the man whose good offices apparently were needed in order to hold the Commonwealth together. Apparently it is a goal of ours to see that the Commonwealth sticks together like a bucketful of adhesive tape. This same military dictator of Nigeria was so keenly interested in the Commonwealth and what took place at Lusaka that he did not attend himself but sent a junior official to represent him. That is the man whose advice was needed on how the Commonwealth ought to be managed. He did not turn up himself and was represented by a relatively junior functionary. 
-By his Foreign Minister. That is far from being a head of government. I think  Senator Puplick  would be aware that being Foreign Minister in Nigeria is at best a temporary appointment. One would not imagine for one moment that the Foreign Minister of Nigeria would be acting very much on his own behalf or giving too many off-the-cuff answers to questions that may arise. But I do not want to get involved in argument about the Foreign Minister of Nigeria or his future. There has been a substantial abandonment of principle by Australia, Great Britain and the other countries which took part in the Lusaka conference. There has been a substantial abandonment of principle on this question by the United States of America. It is indeed true that racism is evil. It is indeed true that the record of the Smith Government is a bad record. It is indeed true that majority rule ought to be introduced in all countriesthroughout Africa and elsewhere- and not just in Zimbabwe. At the same time, there are other principles for which I would have thought Western countries were supposed to stand. 
-Senator Evans has asked what difference it makes, but I would have thought that one of the principles we were supposed to be upholding was the principle of democracy. For that reason, when we do find a country in which substantial advances have been made in order to give majority rule to the people of that country, with whatever limitations there may be to protect the rights of a hitherto dominant minority, that in itself should have been a major factor in the considerations of those Western countries which were present at the Commonwealth conference. I think it is quite clear that it was not, that the last thing that was discussed was democracy. The other matter I raise, and this is to make some sort of gloomy prognostication for the future, if I may be permitted to do so-- 

 - Senator Evans, you must do better than that. 
-It stopped me momentarily, but I can assure  Senator Evans  I will be able to resume quite quickly. 
Indeed , and I think  Senator Evans  deserves full marks for it. What is most serious, apart from the serious questions of principle involved in calling on Muzorewa to renege on solemn agreements he entered into and the disregard for democracy within Zimbabwe, is the future that this is likely to bring to the rest of southern Africa. In South Africa the white population is much larger, both in real terms and as a proportion of the population, than the white population of Zimbabwe. The armed forces of South Africa must be amongst the most sophisticated in the world. If there were to be an armed conflagration in southern Africa there cannot be any question but that the white South Africans, in whatever appalling circumstances they may find themselves having to live, would be able to hang out for many years. They would be able to inflict immeasurable damage on their neighbours. I do not think there is any question but that they would be able to inflict substantial defeats on anybody who tackled them. Clear evidence of that was given not so long ago when the relatively small South African armed force that intervened in Angola was able virtually to sweep everything before it when it went into that country. 
The only way in which justice and peace will be achieved in South Africa is if there is some sort of consensus between the white populationthe dominant, overwhelmingly powerful white population- and the non-white population. The only way in which those people, such of them as there are, who are prepared to make some concessions in the way of gradually increasing the role of the non-white population in South Africa will make the necessary concessions will be if they are given certain guarantees as to their own security in a South Africa in which there is majority rule. I prefer not to talk of black majority rule. I should have thought that majority rule means majority rule, whatever colour one happens to be. The internal settlement signed by  Mr Smith,  Bishop Muzorewa and the others goes far beyond what any South African opponent of apartheid with support of any significance whatever among the white South African population would be prepared to concede. It is only a few years since  Mrs Helen  Suzman, M.P., was in this Parliament as the official guest of the Australian Government, I think probably the only time that a back bench member of parliament has been invited to this country as a guest of the Commonwealth Government. 
-She gave the Dyason lecture but, more importantly, she was also here as a guest of the Parliament. Many people down the years have praised  Mrs Suzman  as being an outstanding opponent of apartheid and an outstanding advocate of the rights of non-white people in South Africa. The policy to which she and her party, the Progressive Federal Party, subscribe goes nowhere near as far as the terms of the internal settlement. The policy of the Progressive Federal Party does not provide even for voting rights for all black adult citizens, lt provides for a restricted franchise; it provides for a situation whereby, under its plans for the proposed South African Senate, all the racial groups within South Africa- the blacks, the whites, the coloureds and the Asians- have a power of veto which is much greater than the limited powers that the white minority in Zimbabwe has preserved in the Constitution under which its is now functioning. 
At the same time, some limited steps have been taken by more enlightened elements within the South African National Party. Prominent Nationalists such as  Dr Koornhof  and  Dr Marais  -one of the leading Afrikaaner capitalists; a back bencher but one of the most prominent thinkers on the Afrikaaner Nationalist side of politics in South Africa- have said that apartheid has to be ended, that racial discrimination at all levels has to be destroyed. But those people, if they see that what Smith has agreed to in Rhodesia is unacceptable not only to black 
African countries but also to countries such as Australia, Great Britain and the United States, will not be able to retain the limited advances they have made. They will be at the mercy of the  Dr Mulders  and the  Dr Treurnichts  the extreme hard-line right-wing racist group within the South African National Party because people such as Treurnicht and Mulder will now be able to say: 'It is all nonsense to say that we can move gradually, move rapidly or move at all, for that matter, peacefully in the direction of majority rule in which at least we can feel secure that we will be able to carry on as citizens, if not masters, of this country'. If they see that even what Smith and Muzorewa were able to agree to in Salisbury is unacceptable to the African countries and also to countries such as Australia, Great Britain and the United States, they will say: 'This is the sort of world in which we live. It is a violent world. It is either everything or nothing. It is either the white man or the black man. Either the white man is exterminated or the black man is exterminated'. That is going to be the consequence. I believe that we have taken a step at Lusaka, through our Government, which will lead towards one of the most monstrous conflagrations the world has ever seen. There are faint hopes. I admit that they are only faint hopes. But there are faint glimmerings of hope that an oppressive system in South Africa could be improved, amended, changed and ultimately transformed by peaceful and democratic means. By saying what we have said at Lusaka about Zimbabwe, we have taken a step which will make this impossible. One hopes that what happens in London will be successful- that somehow or other some agreement will be reached between Bishop Muzorewa and the members of the Zimbabwe Government and the representatives of the Patriotic Front. I doubt it. 
I will endeavour not to. But I suggest that one way in which one could assist in not detracting from it, for example, would be to condemn the attitude of  Mr Mugabe  in saying that armed struggle will continue until the time when the parties go to the conference. I think that anything I might say here or that anybody else might say is nothing compared with the statement made by the leaders of the Patriotic Front, namely, that they are not going to stop fighting while the conference is going on. I cannot imagine anything more - 
I would not have expected them to do anything else. That was why I thought the whole idea of having a conference was nonsense. Honourable senators might say: What would you expect them to say?'. That is precisely what I would have expected them to say. That is precisely why I believe that the conference in London is not going to be successful.I do not think that the Government of Zimbabwe will surrender its armed forces to the Patriotic Front. I do not think that we will find a situation there in which the still powerful white minority will surrender those small powers which it still retains. 
Our major task in dealing with these issues is to try to avoid these absurdly simple categories to which people have subscribed down through the years; that is, that people are either in favour of the West, which means that they support Smith or Vorster, or they are in favour of liberation, which means they support any liberation movement or any movement that has the word liberation' in its title, whether it be the Palestine Liberation Organisation or the Irish National Liberation Army. I think that we have to find out precisely what it is that we are trying to do. I would have hoped that what we were trying to do was to remove racism and to preserve and to expand democracy. I do not think that what has been done at Lusaka does either. I think that it accentuates racism by giving support to those who believe that there can be no peaceful agreement and it damages democracy by saying, as  Senator Evans  has said: 'What difference does it make if Zimbabwe is more democratic than Nigeria?' or 'What difference does it make what happens in Tanzania or Uganda?'. I believe that we have taken a serious and tragic step at the Lusaka conference. I think that those people who feel as I do, that this is an important matter- it may well be that I am the only one who feels this way- should continue to be vigilant on this subject and to see that we are prepared to speak out in favour of democracy as strongly as those who are dedicated to the destruction of democracy are prepared to act towards that end. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and relates to the fact that, although there have been for some years Australian Broadcasting Commission FM stations in Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Canberra, there are no ABC FM stations in a number of other parts of Australia, particularly in Perth. Is it part of the Government's new federalism policy that the citizens of the national capital with a population of a quarter of a million should have the benefit of an ABC FM station, but that over 800,000 people in Perth should not have those benefits? 
I also direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs on Kampuchea. Whilst I recognise that the Government may have acted properly in considering the report of the Credentials Committee to the General Assembly of the United Nations on legal and technical grounds, does the Government have any policy on what ought to be the future of Kampuchea and on whether the government supported by the Vietnamese or the remnants of the government of 
Pol Pot should continue to administer that country? Does the Minister not remember that it is only a few years ago that his Government took a very keen interest in Indo China to the extent of sending Australian conscripts to fight there? Has the Government now lost interest in the matter? If it has not, when will we learn what the Government's policy is on this question? 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs seen newspaper reports that there are at present 20 companies of Soviet combat troops in Afghanistan which have allegedly been sent into that country by the Soviet Union in order to defend the Government of Afghanistan against the present insurgency? Does the Minister know whether these reports are correct? Does the Minister know whether there are any Soviet combat troops in Afghanistan? If there are Soviet combat troops in Afghanistan, does the Government have any views on this matter? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Does the Government have any idea whether or when the Government of Tanzania proposes to withdraw its army from Uganda, which country it is occupying at present? Is it not a breach of the United Nations charter that the armed forces of Tanzania should be in occupation of Uganda? In view of the keen interest which the Government appears to take in the internal situation of other Commonwealth countries in Africa, does the Government have any views on the Tanzanian military occupation of Uganda? Has it raised or does it intend to raise this matter in any of the forums in which it has raised some of the other matters concerning African countries? 
-I present the report and transcript of the evidence from the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on its inquiry into human rights in the Soviet Union. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 Senator WHEELDON (12.38)-by leave-I move: 
That the Senate take not of the paper. 
The report which is being tabled today in both Houses of the Australian Parliament is the result of an inquiry which took over two years which was undertaken by a sub-committee of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. It is an inquiry into a controversial subject, but a subject of very great importance not only to the members of this Parliament but to the people of the Soviet Union and, I would venture to suggest, to the people of the whole world. It is an inquiry into the situation regarding the human rights of the people of the Soviet Union. The inquiry began in 1 977, initially with a decision by the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence to inquire into the following matters: 
The Status of Soviet Jewry- whether or not Jews in the Soviet Union are the victims of adverse discrimination in citizenship, in rights to religious practice, in rights to publish, communicate, travel, emigrate and organise. 
After some discussion the sub-committee came to the opinion that this was too narrow a frame of reference; that the question of human rights within the Soviet Union went beyond the situation solely of the Jewish people although they did have particular problems. Subsequently on 18 October 1977, on the recommendation of the sub-committee, the full Joint Committee resolved to enlarge the terms of reference to the following topic: 
Human rights in the Soviet Union bearing in mind Australia 's support for the principles contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Final Act of the Helsinki Agreement. 
This is the matter to which the sub-committee has applied itself for the past two years. This is the matter which is the subject of the report which is being tabled today. It may be askedindeed it has been asked- why it is that an Australian parliamentary committee should inquire into what could be described as the internal affairs of another country. Why is it that we should be looking at human rights within the Soviet Union, a country with which Australia has diplomatic and in many respects friendly relations? I speak on my own behalf, and I speak certainly on behalf of the members of the subcommittee, when I say that we believe it is completely proper that such an inquiry should be undertaken. We believe it is important that the Australian Parliament and the Australian people should be informed on the situation of human rights in the Soviet Union, for two major reasons. The first is that the Soviet Union is a super power. It is one of the two super powers, along with the United States of America. No country can avoid having relations with the super powers. No country can be secure so long as it believes that there is any threat of any kind whatsoever from either of the two super powers. It is much more important to know what is happening inside the United States of America and inside the Soviet Union than it is to know what is happening inside Bolivia or Uganda, or for that matter in Cambodia. However horrendous the events that are occurring in any of these smaller countries, the consequences of those events are in no way as important to the people of this country and to the people of the rest of the world as are the events which take place within the boundaries of the super powers, nor are the policies of those countries in any way as important or as significant or as potentially dangerous as the practices and policies of the super powers. 
With regard to the other super power, the United States of America, nobody I think is going to argue that there have not been and still are deprivations of human rights within that country from time to time, as there are in all other countries. No country has a record free of any blemish in the sphere of human rights- no country whatsoever- and we are not saying that that is the case. No human institution is perfect, no government is perfect, no nation is perfect. But I do say that however critical any one may be of the United States of America and its policies and practices, we do not need to have an inquiry into that country in order to find out what is the situation with regard to human rights within the United States of America. We can read about the position of human rights in the United States of 
America merely by buying  Time  magazine. We can listen to their own radio service, the  Voice of America,  and we will hear the Reverend Jesse Jackson and all sorts of other people talking about the situation of the Wilmington Ten and various deprivations of human rights within that country. 
Whatever its faults may be, the United States is a relatively open society. Any of us can go there, any of us can look around for ourselves, any of us can talk to Americans who are free to come and go themselves, and many of them who have been here have complained about various aspects of the conduct of the Government of that country which they do not like. I am afraid I cannot say that of the Soviet Union. It is not an open society. It does not have an independent Press. It does not have an independent judiciary. One cannot learn from listening to Radio Moscow what is the situation inside the Soviet Union with regard to human rights. One cannot learn by reading the official publications that come from the Soviet Embassy, one cannot learn from reading Soviet newspapers in English or in any other language, what are the views of dissidents, what are the views of those who have some criticisms of that regime. That information can be obtained only by inquiries undertaken outside the official framework of the Soviet Union. 
Apart from the importance of the Soviet Union as a super power, the other reason why we believe it is important to understand what is happening inside that country is that the Soviet Union is an evangelical super power. The Soviet Union is the centre of a world-wide ideological system, a system which I would venture to say they describe, not entirely accurately- I do not want to get into a debate about that- as Marxism-Leninism. The Soviet Union has as its declared policy the extension of the MarxistLeninist form of government throughout the whole of the world. Whatever they have not said, whatever they may have denied, whatever they may have been accused falsely of having said, there cannot be any doubt that, in any one of the major statements made by the Soviet Communist Party or the leaders of the Soviet State on any of their great occasions, they subscribe firmly to the view that the system of Government, the social system, the political system, the economic system, which applies in the Soviet Union is not only one which ought to be emulated elsewhere in the world but also is one which they propose to see is implemented throughout the rest of the world. Indeed they have said, as  Mr Brezhnev  himself has said, I think on more than one occasion, that in those countries which are in close proximity to the Soviet Union, where there is a similar form of government- countries such as Czechoslovakia, Bulgaria, Poland and so on- the Soviet Union has a right to see that they do not depart from that form of government, a doctrine which was not described by  Mr Brezhnev  in this way but which I think has been described accurately by others as the doctrine of limited sovereignty, the doctrine which justified the intervention by the Soviet armies into Hungary in 1956 and into Czechoslovakia in 1968. 
I do not want to debate those matters again. But if there is a super power, if there is indeed any country which is actively pursuing the propagation of a system of government, a system of society, throughout the whole world, it is surely of importance to the people of the rest of the world to understand how that country behaves within its own borders. It is no use just looking at what they say; but if they say that with their system there will be greater freedoms, more democracy and greater justice than under the systems existing elsewhere in the world, surely all of us have a necessity to examine how they do conduct their own societies so see whether their words and the claims they make about superiority of their system and the desirability of that system being adopted by other countries is borne out by what one sees practiced within their own society. 
The allegation has been made that this constitutes an interference in the internal affairs of another country, namely, the Soviet Union. I think I have already explained why I believe that it is . proper that there should be an inquiry, whether it is regarded as interference in the internal affairs of the Soviet Union or not. But one should not overlook the fact that the Soviet Union itself is far from loath to comment on the internal affairs of other countries. It does not do it by parliamentary committees. It is part of their system not to have parliamentary committees of the kind which exist within this country. But even the most enthusiastic and ardent admirer of the Soviet Union would not be able to deny that any broadcast on Radio Moscow, any word or line that appears within any Soviet publication, appears only because it accords with the policy and the intentions of the Soviet Government. 
If an article appears in  Pravda,  which is the official organ of the communist party in the Soviet Union, that is an action by the Soviet Government. The Soviet Union has had a great deal to say about situations in a number of countries. It has commented at various forums on the conditions of Australian Aborigines; it has commented about what are alleged to be the brutalities and denials of civil rights by the United 
Kingdom Government in Northern Ireland; it has talked at length about the situation of the black population of the United States, and indeed it is entitled to, because that is what we are doing. I believe the Soviet Union is entitled to do that. It is perfectly entitled to comment on all these matters. I would not resist its right to comment in any way on these matters. But it cannot have it both ways. If it is free to comment on the situation in Northern Ireland and the situation in the United States and the situation in Australia and the situation in Chile, as I believe it is entitled, then we are entitled to comment on the situation inside the Soviet Union. We have exactly no more and no less entitlement than it has. 
An additional reason why I believe it is important that we should be examining the situation with regard to human rights within the Soviet Union is that the Soviet Union is a party to the Final Act of the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe which was dealt with in Helsinki in 1975. 1 think it is worthwhile noting that among the provisions of the Final Art of the so-called Helsinki Accord some of the following statements appear: 
The participating States will respect human rights and fundamental freedoms including the freedom of thought, conscience, religion or belief, for all without distinction as to race, sex, language or religion. 
They will promote and encourage the effective exercise of civil, political, economic, social, cultural and other rights and freedoms all of which derive from the inherent dignity of the human person and are essential for his free and full development. 
The Soviet Union says that the Helsinki Accords are very important. It has complained that certain other countries are not carrying out the principles of the Helsinki Accords to which they are a party. I believe it is important that we should look at the record of the Soviet Union with regard to the Helsinki Accords to see whether the Soviet Union has been carrying out the provisions of those Accords in the conduct of its own government. There is one other thing which I think should also be mentioned. I refer to the question of detente. It is certainly not the purpose of the Sub-Committee or of its report to encourage armed conflict, rearmament or the use of neutron bombs or any other weapons. One ought to always bear in mind what it was that  Mr Brezhnev  himself, the General Secretary of the Soviet Communist Party and  President  of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, said about the significance of detente. He said that detente means a relaxation of military tension. It means taking steps towards universal disarmament. Let us assume that when he said that he meant that and intended to do that. 
But  Mr Brezhnev  did not stop there. He went on to say that the relaxation of military tensions- detente- does not mean an end of the ideological struggle. He made that perfectly clear. He did not say that detente means that we will stop criticising the social and political systems of other countries. He did not say that we shall not take action to extend by means of persuasion, propaganda- if you want to call it that- or various ideological means MarxismLeninism throughout the world. But the Western countries, the democracries, have accepted the first part of the proposition concerning the relaxation of military tension but have done nothing about the second part concerning ideological struggle. In my view this is a serious dereliction of duty by democratic governments. If it is quite proper for the Soviet Union to point to the superiority of the Marxist-Leninist form of government over other forms of government, I believe it is equally proper for those who subscribe to a democratic parliamentary form of government to just as persistently advocate the superiority of the democratic parliamentary form of government over other forms of government. 
Too many people who claim to be democratic and to support the parliamentary system adopt an attitude which can be described only as racist. They say that democracy is all right in Western Europe, Australia and New Zealand but that it does not work elsewhere. They say that because it did not work in Uganda it will not work anywhere else. They neglect the fact that the second largest country, India, with all of its vicissitudes, for over 30 years has remained one of the best functioning parliamentary democracies in the world. We know of all the problems it has had from time to time, but whatever  Mrs Gandhi  might have done at least when she was removed from office she was removed by an election. There is nothing strange about people living in a tropical country and being of a dark complexion which means that they cannot have a parliamentary system. India and Sri Lanka have shown that this can be done. 
If the Soviet Union is to say that its system is superior we are also entitled to say that our system is superior. If the Soviet Union is entitled to point out imperfections in our system of government we are entitled to point out imperfections as we see them in its system of government. Let me take one example- this is not a subject in the matter of the report but it relates to it- of the ideological struggle. All of us have heard now for the last several years about the denials of civil liberties within West Germany, about the socalled Berufsverbot, about the provisions which stop people of certain political persuasions from holding various civil service appointments within that country. I certainly think that those provisions were mistaken. I do not believe that they were good laws, but one would think from listening to the propaganda which has been spread about the situation within West Germany, most of it coming from East Germany, that in West Germany severe restrictions are placed on one 's political activities but in East Germany it is Liberty Hall. I am sure that there are people firmly of this opinion. Why are they of this opinion? They are of that opinion because the Soviet Union and East Germany have taken the ideological struggle seriously. Despite the fact that the German Social Democratic Party, the fraternal party of my own Party, the Australian Labor Party, is illegal in East Germany, despite the fact that the parties which correspond to any of the other parties in Australia, whether the Liberal Party, the National Country Party or the Australian Democrats, are illegal within East Germany and are unable to function within East Germany and despite the fact that in West Germany all of the political parties are legal apart from those which actually advocate the policies of the former National Socialist Party, I do not believe that there is any doubt that many people throughout the world believe that somehow or other East Germany is more democratic than West Germany. This is because East Germany and the Soviet Union have persistently put forward the proposition that their system of government is better and they have set out to expose what they regard as weaknesses in the systems of other governments while we have not done the same thing. 
Other criticisms have been made of this report. I refer particularly to some minority reports which were presented and which are included in the back of the report. I point out that none of those minority reports were made by any members of the Sub-Committee who heard evidence. The minority reports were made by members of the Joint Committee who were exercising their right which they have to submit minority reports. There was no dissent whatsoever from any of the members of the Sub-Committee. I will refer to one of the matters later. The one which I wish to refer to at the moment is a minority report from  Mr Armitage  M.P.,  Dr Blewett  M.P. and  Mr Scholes  M.P. Their first criticism is that the report is one of inordinate length and repetitiveness. I am very pleased to learn that  Mr Armitage, Dr Blewett  and  Mr Scholes  have embraced a belief in the virtues of brevity. Without dwelling on that, I would like to say that in making a report of this kind the Sub-Committee was firmly of the opinion that any recommendations on a matter as serious as this should be backed up to the fullest possible extent by evidence, by reference to evidence and by arguments. Imagine what would happen if we came down with a six page report saying that we had looked at the matter and that the situation of human rights in the Soviet Union is unsatisfactory? What would have been said about the SubCommittee then? We would have been asked: Where is your evidence and argument? What is the backing for what you are saying?' I apologise if those with more rapid minds than my own were able to pick up these points more quickly and did not need some of the repetitiveness which is alleged to be there. In my own view in order to satisfactorily establish the conclusions to which we came it was essential that we should include all of the material which is contained within the body of this report. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
-Before the suspension of the sitting of the Senate, I was dealing with some of the objections which were raised in the minority report of  Mr Armitage, Dr Blewett  and  Mr Scholes,  concerning the nature of the inquiry conducted by the Sub-Committee on Human Rights in the Soviet Union of the Joint Committee of Foreign Affairs and Defence. I am referring, perhaps at some length, to these matters because I think they typify the sorts of objections which various people raised with the inquiry. Another objection raised was the difficulty the Sub-Committee experienced in obtaining evidence concerning the Soviet Union. It was suggested, therefore, that it was not proper for the Australian Parliament to make decisions on the matter without having obtained that evidence. I reject that suggestion. Indeed, I think that it is the practice of the Parliament constantly to reject it. 
This very day, as I understand it, in both Houses of Parliament- certainly in the Senate- a debate has been held on the situation in East Timor. That was held quite properly; I am all in favour of it having been held. Certain statements were made- properly made, I also believe- but they were not made as a result of the committee of inquiry of the Australian Parliament having investigated the situation in East Timor and having taken evidence from people who made allegations about that country. Certain matters do tend to become common knowledge. In fact, only last month I was in London attending what was described as an international legal colloquium on the position of Soviet Jewry. The people who took part in the colloquium, apart from me, were all distinguished lawyers- some were practising politicians, some practising lawyers and some academic lawyers. Very few, if any, of them were Jewish and, for the most part, they were to the Left. 
Among the people who took part were:  Mr Ramsey  Clark, a former Attorney-General of the United States of America, not generally regarded as the spearhead of the John Birch Society; Lord Lloyd of Hampstead, Professor of Law at the University of London, a Labour life peer; the  President  of the French Criminal Court; the  President  of the Paris Bar; the VicePresident of the French League of Human Rights; the Professor of Law at the University Rene Descartes; Monsieur Gaston Monnerville, a former  President  of the French Senate, a leading French left wing politician and a resistance leader during the Second World War; a professor of law from the University of Mexico, Spanish by birth, a refugee from Franco's Spain; from Great Britain, the Rt  Hon.  Peter Archer, Q.C., M.P., Solicitor-General in the recent Labour Government;  Mr Stig  Gustafsson, Professor of Law in Stockholm, a Labour member of the Swedish Parliament; Professor Federico Mancini, an eminent Italian Jurist and a member of the Central Committee of the Italian Socialist Party;  Senator Umberto  Terracini, a Communist Party member of the Italian Senate, a leader of the partisans during the anti-fascist resistance. 
In fact  Senator Terracini  the Italian Communist Party senator, pointed out in his remarks that the treatment of Soviet Jewry deserved particular study and was so outrageous that it told one not only something about the situation of Jews but also something about the situation of the whole Soviet society. That was not said by somebody from the Central Intelligence Agency; that was said by a member of the Italian Communist Party, a veteran Italian working class leader, a veteran leader of the Italian anti-fascist movement who took up arms against Mussolini. Indeed, the colloquium concluded:   . . that Soviet Jews wishing to leave the Soviet Union had been consistently subjected to harassment and other forms of maltreatment and that their human rights had been denied, Soviet law and procedure infringed, and unwarranted punishments inflicted. Although during the last year there has been an increase in the number of Jews allowed to leave the Soviet Union, this Second Colloquium  . . has found the basic situation unchanged and in some respects it has even worsened. 
Participants in this Colloquium- 
That is, Lord Lloyd of Hampstead, the Communist senator and all the other people I have mentioned, without dissent- 
Are dismayed, especially against the background of the tragedy experienced by Jews in this century that a wave of antisemitism is inspired officially - 
That is endorsed by an Italian communist senator-  by the USSR, which employs to this end books and all possible media facilities even including the distribution of Soviet antisemitic publications in foreign countries. Such antisemitism is an illegal manifestation of religious and racist discrimination both by international and Soviet law. The pursuit of such an antisemitic campaign is intolerable. 
Those were the findings of that group of Leftofcentre to Left, mainly non-Jewish, lawyers and politicians who gathered in London. I raise another criticism which was made in the minority report and which I do not entirely follow. It is a matter which was not raised in the SubCommittee, so I do not know to which organisations the authors of the minority report are referring. They state: 
It should also be noted that the pattern of witnesses, which came before the inquiry, was partly due to the active participation of certain international groups, in conflict, with just cause, with the Soviet Union. 
I do not know whom they mean. I do not know whether they have in mind the CIA, the Masonic Lodge, the Ku Klux Klan or the Elders of Zion. I have not been given the benefit of the information which they apparently have on the matter. In Appendix H to the report we mention some organisations which assisted in the travelling to Australia and the accommodation of witnesses who gave evidence before the SubCommittee. They included: The Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church of Australia, the Latvian Relief Society of Australia, the Ukranian Committee for the Defence of Human Rights, Victorian Division, the Latvian Federation of Australia and New Zealand, the Russian Orthodox Brotherhood of Australia and the Executive Council of Australian Jewry. What a terrifying sextet! Indeed, one can well wonder that the Soviet Union would be trembling when it has the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church arraying all its might against the Soviet Union and its allies! I do not know- I dare say that later they will explain this- which international organisations they had in mind, but those were the only organisations to which they referred. 
I mention again in passing, with regard to evidence, that twice I wrote to the Soviet Ambassador inviting him to give evidence before the Committee and twice I failed to receive a reply. I made approaches to a number of people, whom I do not care to name because I do not want to be accused of a form of McCarthyism. I know that they have expressed opinions favourable to the Soviet Union in and out of season. I invited them to come along and say a few words to the SubCommittee. Not one of them appeared. One of them did write back and say that he was not prepared to be associated with me and my imperialist activities. He is the only one of all of them who had the courtesy to reply. 
What is very interesting is that all of us know that there are a lot of organisations whose full time occupation is telling us of the benefits of the Soviet way of life and the virtues of Soviet policy. There is the World Peace Council, the World Federation of Trade Unions, the International Association of Democratic Lawyers and many other such organisations. We are all familiar with people and organisations in Australia who have warm, friendly feelings about the Soviet Union and who believe that it is a pack of lies to suggest that there is any infringement of human rights there. But not one witness came from anywhere to support that claim. Not only did they not come from the Soviet Embassy; not one person, not one single, solitary soul, was prepared to come before the Sub-Committee and say one word of praise or commendation or excuse about the record of the Soviet Union with regard to human rights. It is not because we did not try to get witnesses; it is not because those who were interested in the matter were not only too well aware that such an inquiry was taking place - 
I think they took us very seriously indeed. It is not that the Soviet Union is loath to provide information. I understand that when an inquiry into the presence of the Soviet Union in the Indian Ocean was conducted by a Senate committee the Soviet Embassy was happy to provide information to that committee. So it is not as if the Soviets have a principle which disqualifies Australian parliamentary committees from inquiring into Soviet activities. 
During the course of the evidence that the Committee heard from some people to whom I will refer in a moment, we learnt, I believe to my satisfaction- it would have been to the satisfaction of any reasonable person- that 300 dissidents are held quite improperly at any one time in Soviet psychiatric institutions, that their only psychiatric disorder is to be critical of the Soviet Union and that they include many eminent Soviet citizens. Among them is Major-General Grigorenko, one of the most decorated veterans, if not the most decorated veteran, of the Red Army in the Second World War, a major-general in the Soviet Army and a lifetime member of the Soviet Communist Party. We learnt that contrary to the Helsinki Accords, to which the Soviet Union is a party, there is not freedom of religion, there is not freedom of speech, there is not freedom of assembly and there is not freedom of migration, even when it is a case of the reuniting of families. 
Among the witnesses from whom we heard was  Mr Leonid  Plyushch, a Soviet citizen, a man who was allowed to leave the Soviet Union as a result of pressure which was applied by the French Left, by the French trade unions, by the French Communist Party, and who still described himself as a Marxist. There was Professor Voronel, an eminent physicist, a man of Jewish origin who had never practised the religion of Judaism, who did not speak Hebrew, who belonged to no Jewish organisations, who was not interested in going to Israel, but who, through the very fact that on his internal passport the word 'Jew' was printed, found it impossible to carry on his profession as a physicist. There was  Mr Kalnins,  a Latvian, a man born and bred in the Latvian Communist Party, whose father was one of the Latvian Red Guards who stormed the Winter Palace in 1917. He was another man who, because he was prepared to speak out on the rights of the Latvian national minority, of Latvian culture and of the Latvian language, found himself placed in the most awful situations which he described to us, which can be found in the transcript of evidence and which have now made it necessary for him to leave his own country of Latvia which he never wanted to leave and to which he wants to return. 
We referred to some other matters in the report. Indeed, some of the inquiries which we made are inquiries which one does not need to go anywhere to make. For example, one only has to read the Soviet Constitution to learn that although there purport to be within it guarantees, for example, of full employment, unlike other documents which are described as constitutions there is in it no remedy available to anybody who says that he is denied that employment which is guaranteed. There is no provision anywhere within the Soviet Constitution for any steps that can be taken by any citizen or any resident for the redress of grievances- none whatsoever. If someone believes that he has been falsely or improperly unemployed, there is no court to which he can go to direct some functionary to find him employment or to secure any of the other human rights which purport to be guaranteed by the Constitution. 
We did not need to leave Australia to find evidence of the distribution of anti-semitic material. At a trade fair held in Melbourne last year the Soviet delegation was distributing two antisemitic books which I think any reasonable and sensitive person could describe only as obscene. One of the remarkable documents which was prepared and which shows the extent to which Soviet anti-semitism seems unfortunately to have gone, comes up with the old story that the New York 'Jewish' banking firm of Kuhn, Loeb and Co.- the New York 'Zionist bankers'- were the people who are subsidising the State of Israel. By a curious coincidence- it is funny how antiSemites seem to say exactly the same thing from whichever direction they come- the Australian League of Rights was circulating at the same time a document in which it said that this apparently very versatile banking firm of Kuhn, Loeb and Co. financed the Russian Revolution in 1917! 
I think it has done a lot, and must be very busy about its business. The report of the Committee is long- I do not believe unduly long. The conclusions that the Committee has come to are conclusions which have been argued for and for which there is evidence that can be seen in the transcript which has been distributed. We make a further recommendation, that is, that there should be established by the Australian Parliament a permanent committee on human rights. Some members of the full Committee, not of the Sub-Committees, have expressed their opposition to that point of view on the grounds, amongst other things, that it could raise some antagonism amongst other countries. It is certainly the view of the Sub-Committee that whatever the virtues may be of inquiring into human rights in the Soviet Union- I believe it was probably more important than any other similar inquiry- we would be hypocrites if we were to inquire into human rights only in the Soviet Union and not in other countries. We all know that gross deprivations of human rights are taking place in countries throughout the worldserious deprivations of human rights- in Chile, in Bolivia and in Uganda. All over the world there are countries in which there are deprivations of human rights. 
In Timor. There are deprivations of human rights in our country- of course there are- in the United States and in Great Britain. In all of them there are deprivations of human rights. We believe that this is a matter of which everybody should be aware. If some government is infringing the human rights of its citzens, that is a fact which ought to be known to all because a country which denies human rights to its own citizens is not going to respect the human rights of the citizens of any other country. If, in the 1930s, politicians in countries such as Britain, France, the United States and Australia had paid a little more attention to the deprivations of human rights inside Germany, Italy and Spain and if they had seen the sorts of things that Hitler and Mussolini were doing to their own people, rather than looking at some of these governments as any other governments with which to have ordinary intergovernmental relations, they may well have been much better aware of what was likely to happen to them. In any case, if we believe that the preservation of human rights is a virtue, this is somebody we should not be afraid of upsetting somebody about. Nobody who needs to trade with us is going to stop trading with us because we have said something about their deprivation of human rights. If it is in their economic interest to trade with us, they will trade with us. If it is not in their economic interest to trade with us, they will not trade with us. What we say about human rights will not make the slightest difference one way or the other. 
In any event, one way to assist in securing the spread of human rights to all the citizens of this planet is for the citizens in other countries to be aware of it.  Senator Cavanagh  asked whether they took the Committee seriously. Certainly the Tass office in Moscow took it sufficiently seriously to write a letter to the  Canberra Times  about it. I was challenged by a Tass correspondent as to how I would react if a committee of the Soviet Parliament were to inquire into Australian Aborigines. My reaction is that I would be delighted if a committee of the Soviet Parliament, or of any other parliament, were to inquire into the situation of Australian Aborigines. If it were to do so, I think that the Australian Government should assist any committee as far as possible in its inquiries. If we have nothing to be ashamed about, there is nothing to keep quiet about. If we have something to be ashamed about, it ought to be exposed. 
My concluding words are, first, to thank my colleagues on the Sub-Committee and the members of the Joint Committee for the long hours and the hard work which they put in to bring down this report. I would like particularly to mention the  Hon.  Kim Beazley, who was the first  chairman  of the Committee and whom I succeeded after his retirement from the Parliament at the end of 1977. I would like particularly to pay tribute to  Mr Claus  Ducker, the secretary of the Sub-Committee, who worked on this matter well over and above the call of duty or the requirements of his employment.  His  conduct was exemplary and I believe that with such officers in the service of this Parliament the Committee will be able to inform itself adequately on a multiplicity of subjects. 
I would only add that this report is not a clarion call for a cold war. Nothing in it suggests that, provided the military arrangements are satisfactory, strategic arms limitation talks should not proceed and be extended; that there should not be universal and complete disarmament, abolition of atomic weapons and all of the other things which we need if we are to live in a safe world. We are not talking about that. We are talking about a struggle of ideas between thosewhatever their views might be on economic policy, health services, nationalising banks or something else- who believe in a system in which there is freedom of assembly, freedom of speech and freedom of the people to change their government, and those who do not believe in those freedoms. It is an important struggle and one from which this Parliament should not abdicate. 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, arises from reports that the Australian Government is to withdraw recognition from the Pol Pot Government, which claims to be the Government of Cambodia. Whether these reports are correct or not, will the Government do whatever it can to ensure that an act of self-determination by the Cambodian people takes place before the Australian Government recognises any future government in Cambodia and will it refrain from recognising the present government in Phnom Penh until such time as it is satisfied that the people of Cambodia wish that government to be the government of that country? 
